Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which county commission has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-19. - Rules of procedure.
The board of commissioners hereby adopts Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised (11th edition), as parliamentary procedure for board meetings.
(Added in 2017 codification)
Secs. 2-20—2-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES (RESERVED)[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Civil service system for county employees authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; expenditure of funds for insurance and employment benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1.

Secs. 2-42—2-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-71—2-98. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS (RESERVED)[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Secs. 2-99—2-124. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-125—2-146. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - ETHICS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-147—2-175. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-176—2-203. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Use of government credit cards, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24.

Sec. 2-204. - Intent and scope.
This division is intended to comply with the policy requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24 regarding the use of county-issued government purchasing cards and credit cards.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § I, 12-10-2015)
Sec. 2-205. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Authorized elected official means an elected official designated by public vote of the board of commissioners to receive a county-issued government purchasing card or credit card.
Card administrator means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the county board of commissioners.
County purchase card, county p-card or county credit card means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a county official to purchase gods, services and other things of value on behalf of the county.
Financial transaction card means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
User agreement means the required agreement between the board of commissioners and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a county purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § II, 12-10-2015)
Sec. 2-206. - Designated elected officials.
(a)
The county board of commissioners ("county"), in its discretion, may authorize specific county elected officials to use a county purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting.
(b)
No authorized elected official may use a county purchasing card or credit card until and unless he has executed the county's purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
The county will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this division or for any purchases that are not authorized by this division.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § I, 12-10-2015)
Sec. 2-207. - Card administrator.
The board of commissioners shall designate a county purchasing card and credit card administrator. The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
(1)
Manage county-issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
(2)
Serve as the main point of contact for all county purchasing card and credit card issues.
(3)
Serve as liaison to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
(4)
Provide training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
(5)
Develop internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
(6)
Assist authorized elected officials to dispute transactions when necessary.
(7)
Establish internal procedures to ensure compliance with this division, county procurement ordinances and policies, county purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
(8)
Document internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
(9)
Audit and reconcile transactions monthly.
(10)
Maintain records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § II, 12-10-2015)
Sec. 2-208. - Use of cards.
(a)
Authorized purchases.
(1)
County purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official only. All purchases are subject to the terms of this division, the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, county procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
(2)
Only authorized elected officials may use a county purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees. The authorized elected official shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
(3)
Unless otherwise approved by the governing authority or established in the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, the transaction limits are as follows:
a.
Per transaction .....N/A
b.
Per month .....$5,000.00
(b)
Unauthorized purchases. County purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the county's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the county's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
Receipts and documentation.
(1)
Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a county purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized county elected official for five years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(2)
If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official county duties.
(d)
Public records. All receipt and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § III, 12-10-2015)
Sec. 2-209. - Review of purchases and audit.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls and other measures prevent and allow detection to misuse or abuse of county-issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials and staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the county.
(1)
Review of purchases.
a.
O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c)(7) requires the county to establish a procedure where purchases are reviewed. To ensure timely and proper payment by the county of the charges each month, the county needs to establish a procedure for the elected officials to turn in documentation to the card program administrator or other person processing accounts payable for the county.
b.
All purchases shall be reviewed according to the following procedure: Credit card and receipts are to be turned in to the administrative office immediately upon their return or within five days. All receipts are to be detailed and signed by the elected official.
(2)
Audits. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions. Elected officials and staff shall cooperate with such review.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § I, 12-10-2015)
State Law reference— Process for auditing and review must be developed. O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c)(7).
Sec. 2-210. - Violations.
(a)
An elected official shall reimburse the county for any purchases made with a county-issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this division or the user agreement.
(b)
In the discretion of the county governing authority, failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this division may result in:
(1)
A warning;
(2)
Suspension of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card; or
(3)
Revocation of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card.
(c)
Nothing in this division shall preclude the county governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. No. 12102015, § I, 12-10-2015)
State Law reference— Procedures for addressing a violation, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24(c)(8).
