ARTICLE XIII. - C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 13.01. - Statement of purpose.
The purpose of the C-2 district is to provide areas for development that permit a wider range of business and entertainment activities than are permitted in the C-1 district. The permitted uses would serve not only nearby residential areas, but also people further away. This district is intended for types of businesses and services usually found in major shopping centers and central business districts at the juncture of principal roads. These uses would generate larger volumes of vehicular traffic, need more off-street parking and loading, and require more planning to integrate such districts with adjacent residential areas than the C-1 district.
Sec. 13.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the C-2 district:
A.
Any retail or service establishment.
B.
Commercial greenhouses and nurseries.
C.
Hotel/motel.
D.
Indoor shooting ranges provided all applicable federal, state and local government requirements are met.
E.
Radio and cellular transmission/receiving towers and other similar towers subject to all other applicable county ordinances.
F.
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, distributing plants, freezers and lockers.
Sec. 13.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the C-2 district:
A.
Adult entertainment establishments provided all requirements of Chapter 10 of the Code of Ordinances of Sumter County are met.
B.
Club and fraternal organization operating not-for-profit provided:
1.
Buildings are not placed closer than 50 feet to any property line; and
2.
Screening requirements of section 4.12 are satisfied.
C.
Hospital, clinic, sanitarium, nursing home, rest home, residence for aged persons and orphanages, group home and halfway house.
D.
Mortuaries.
E.
Mini-warehouses. All units must be one story and have direct access to a paved driveway. The units must be fenced and the only outside storage allowed shall be automobiles, passenger trucks, boats, campers, etc., or other operational vehicles.
F.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility.
G.
Outdoor storage for any establishment other than those involved in the sale of vehicles or manufactured homes.
H.
Recreational vehicle park.
Sec. 13.04. - Area, bulk and placement requirements.
C-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic): 1.00 acre
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic): 0.75 acre
3. C&Gutter + H 2 O (septic): 0.50 acre
4. C&G + H 2 O & sewer: 0.30 acre
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic): 150 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic): 125 feet
3. C&Gutter + H 2 O (septic): 100 feet
4. C&G + H 2 O & sewer: 100 feet
Minimum building setback: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 50 feet
• Collector road: 60 feet
• Arterial road: 70 feet
2. Rear yard: 25 feet
3. Side yard: 10 feet
