ARTICLE VIII. - RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL

Sec. 8.01. - Statement of purpose.
The RR district is composed of certain areas having both rural and single-family residential characteristics, and areas where it is desirable and likely that similar development will occur in the future. The district is characterized by very low density of housing and large lot sizes, as well as permitting uses that are associated with rural areas. It is designed to accommodate residential development opportunities for those who desire exurban, low-density, or estate living, and are willing to live in more remote locations and to assume the costs of providing many of their own services and amenities. The public provision of these amenities is limited because the county must concentrate its limited resources in areas where more intense future development is logical. The sparse development allowed in this district is necessitated by the county's need to preserve and support existing public infrastructure.
Sec. 8.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the RR district:
A.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided that all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in section 4.10.
B.
Agricultural activities limited to row-crop and nut production, open grazing of livestock, horticulture and silviculture.
C.
Aquaculture.
D.
Church, provided the proposed site is not less than three acres, and a complete site development plan is submitted with the application for a building permit.
E.
Home occupation.
F.
Garden.
G.
Guest home and servant quarters.
H.
Keeping livestock and fowl on residential property for noncommercial purposes provided the following requirements are met:
1.
Horses, cows, ponies, donkeys and other domestic livestock may be kept, raised or bred for home use and enjoyment; provided that only three such animals shall be permitted for each 50,000 square feet of land area, not to include the front yard of the principal dwelling, and all livestock shall be adequately fenced within the property.
2.
Ducks, quail, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, pheasants, etc., may be raised for home use and enjoyment provided that such fowl are adequately contained within the property.
3.
The keeping, breeding or training of any animals for monetary gain or profit shall be deemed a commercial business and is expressly prohibited except where such operation may qualify as a home occupation or as a nonconforming use.
4.
No animal or fowl of any kind shall be kept on a lot in this district when there is no principal dwelling on the lot.
I.
Single-family, detached dwelling, including manufactured home.
Sec. 8.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the RR district:
A.
Bed and breakfast inn.
B.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility provided all state licensing requirements are met.
C.
Privately owned outdoor recreational facility such as skeet ranges, golf and county club, hunting preserve, swimming or tennis club and other similar use.
D.
Public cemetery provided a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application (five-acre minimum site size with an adequate buffer).
E.
Social or fraternal club, lodge, union hall and other similar use.
F.
Temporary emergency construction and repair residence.
Sec. 8.04. - Area, bulk, and placement requirements.
RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic): 5 acres
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic): 3 acres
3. Curb and Gutter Rd. +H 2 O or sewer: 2 acres
4. Curb and Gutter Rd. +H 2 O and sewer: 1 acre
Minimum lot width at setback: — 250 feet
Minimum building setback: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 50 feet
• Collector road: 75 feet
• Arterial road: 100 feet
• US & GA Hwys 19, 280, 27, 45 & 49: 200 feet
2. Rear yard: 50 feet
3. Side yard: 20 feet
