ARTICLE XII. - C-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 12.01. - Statement of purpose.
The C-1 district is intended to permit retail business and service uses that are needed to serve nearby residential areas. To promote appropriate business development uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business areas in locations proposed in the future land use plan to the advantage of consumers, merchant and the community, thereby promoting the best use of land at certain strategic locations by prohibiting marginal, strip business development along county roads.
Sec. 12.02. - Permitted uses.
All permitted uses are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 12.06 of this Code [appendix].
A.
Barber shop, beauty shop and similar uses.
B.
Business, professional, or governmental office designed to attract and serve customers or clients on premises.
C.
Contractor's office with no outdoor storage of any type.
D.
Custom dress making, tailoring establishment and similar uses.
E.
Eating establishment in which there is no dancing, floor show or other live entertainment.
F.
Household appliance repair shop without outdoor storage, display, or business operations of any type.
G.
Laundry, dry cleaning, coin laundry operated by customers such as a launderette, laundromat and the like.
H.
Medical clinic, dental clinics and other similar uses.
I.
Personal service business.
J.
Post office.
K.
Retail store for food, drugs, clothing, etc. with no outdoor storage, display, or business operations of any type.
L.
Temporary emergency construction and repair of buildings.
M.
Veterinarian offices with no outdoor kennels. Outdoor exercise runs may be used only during normal business or daylight hours.
Sec. 12.03. - Conditional uses.
All conditional uses are subject to the restrictions set forth in section 12.06 of this Code [appendix].
A.
Bank with drive-in window.
B.
Bed and breakfast inn.
C.
Horticulture sales with outdoor display.
D.
Radio, cellular phone or similar towers.
Sec. 12.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-1 districts adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of major arterial or major collector roads) from residential districts shall be in compliance with section 4.12 of this Code [appendix].
Sec. 12.05. - Area, bulk and placement requirements.
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
EXPAND
Minimum lot size per unit: 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic): 1.00 acre
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic): 0.75 acre
3. C&Gutter + H 2 O (septic): 0.50 acre
4. C&G + H 2 O & sewer: 0.30 acre
Minimum lot width at setback: 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic): 150 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic): 125 feet
3. C&Gutter + H 2 O (septic): 100 feet
4. C&G + H 2 O & sewer: 100 feet
Minimum building setback: 1. Front yard:
• Local road: 50 feet
• Collector road: 60 feet
• Arterial road: 70 feet
2. Rear yard: 25 feet
3. Side yard: 10 feet
  Sec. 12.06. - Restrictions.
The following restrictions shall apply to all permitted and conditional businesses in the C-1 district:
A.
All outdoor business operations shall be subject to the following restrictions:
1.
Eating and drinking establishments are allowed to have tables outside; however, there shall be no more than ten tables, or up to 25 percent of the number of indoor tables, whichever number is less.
B.
Retail businesses shall have no more than 7,000 square feet of gross floor area.
C.
No business operations shall be conducted between the early morning hours of midnight and 5:00 a.m. with the exception of normal business opening and closing activities, i.e. cleaning, restocking, etc. Nor shall any establishment be open to the public during said hours.
D.
Unless specifically covered by this chapter [appendix], all other sections of this ordinance shall apply to all establishments.
