Chapter 22 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; cable communications, ch. 26; mobile home parks, § 42-56 et seq.; taxation, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 70.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS

Sec. 22-31. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor as defined in section 22-32 of this article to engage in such business within the county without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-101; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-32. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this article a transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor is defined as any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the county or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within said county, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box care, or boat, public room in hotels, lodging houses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley, or other place within the county, for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wards and merchandise, either at private sale or at public auction provided that such definition shall not be constructed to include any person, firm, or corporation who, while occupying such temporary location does not sell from stock in possession, but solely exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery. The person, firm, or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this article merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. Such definition shall not be construed to include any corporation or other entity which engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within said county, and which is organized and operating as a non-profit corporation, and which has qualified for non-profit status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Such corporation or other entity shall confirm its non-profit status by producing documentary evidence at the request of the county clerk or other county official.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-102; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-33. - Application.
Applicants for license under this article, whether a person, firm or corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant, if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a corporation, with the county clerk showing:
(a)
The name or names of the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on in the county; the local address or addresses of such person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the laws of what state the same is incorporated;
(b)
The fingerprints of the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's business or in lieu thereof, at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes to the satisfaction of the commissioners the good character and business responsibility of such person or persons;
(c)
The place or places in the county where it is proposed to carry on applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that such business shall be conducted;
(d)
The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant where applicant within the six months next preceding the date of said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(e)
A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant in the county, the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise, whether the same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in possession and by sample; at auction by direct sale or by direct sale and by taking orders for future delivery; where the goods or property proposed to be sold are manufactured or produced and where such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
(f)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the county clerk, copies of all said advertising whether by hand bills, circular, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as exhibits thereto;
(g)
Whether or not the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the punishment assessed therefor;
(h)
Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative; and
(i)
Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of the person or persons having the management or supervision of applicant's business or the method or plan of doing such business as the county clerk may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this article in the protection of the public good.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-103; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-34. - Investigation and insurance.
Upon receipt of such application, the county clerk shall cause such investigation of such person's or persons' business responsibility or moral character to be made as he/she deems necessary to the protection of the public good. If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the county clerk shall so certify in writing, and a license shall be issued by the county clerk. The county clerk shall keep a full record in his/her office of all licenses issued. Such license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of said license, the place where said business may be carried on under said license, and the name or names of the person or persons authorized to carry on the same.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-104; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-35. - Bond.
Before any license as provided by this article shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as defined in section 22-32 of this article in the county, such applicant shall file with the county clerk a bond running to the county in the sum of $1,000.00 executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state; said bond to be approved by the county attorney, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the County of Sumter and the statutes of the State of Georgia, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of said ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the same of the county to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the county attorney, both as to form, and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-105; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-36. - Service of process.
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business as an itinerant merchant, as herein defined, in the county, such applicant shall file with the county clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the county clerk, or the person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license and the bond given as required by section 22-35 of this article, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond or for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person or persons applying for the said license under this article, according to the law of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the county clerk, as herein provided, the county clerk shall send to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of said process.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-106; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-37. - Exhibition of license.
The license issued under this article shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business named therein. In the event that such person or persons applying for said license shall desire to do business in more than one place within the county, separate licenses may be issued for each place of business, and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-107; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-38. - Fees.
(a)
Licensees under this article shall pay a fee based upon use. The minimum fee shall be $100.00 dollars. An additional fee of $3.00 per every $1,000.00 of gross revenue shall be paid as provided in subsection (b) below.
(b)
Every person conducting a business licensed under this article shall, on the first business day of each week, and upon discontinuance of business in the county, present to the clerk of said county, at the office of the board of commissioners of the county, a verified statement showing the total sales made during the preceding week and shall pay to the county clerk the amount of license fee hereinbefore provided, for sales made during the previous week. The county clerk and any other officer designated by him/her shall have power and authority to enter any store, building, or any other place in which such temporary business may be conducted at any time during business hours for ascertaining the amount of sales made and shall at all times have access to the books of such business.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-108; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-39. - Transfer.
No license shall be transferred without written consent from the board of commissioners as evidenced by endorsement on the face of the license by the county clerk showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-109; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-40. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No licensee under this article, nor anyone in his behalf shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other sound device including any loud speaking radio or amplifying system upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the said county or upon any private premises in the said county where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wards or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-110; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-41. - Duty of sheriff to enforce.
It shall be the duty of the sheriff of the county to examine all places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the provisions of this article, to determine if this article has been complied with and to enforce the provisions of this article against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-111; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-42. - Records.
The county clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of licensee, together with a license number, with the sheriff; the sheriff shall report to the chief clerk any complaints against any person licensed under the provisions of this article and any conviction for violation of this article; the county clerk shall keep a record of all such licenses and of such complaints and violations.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-112; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-43. - Revocation of license.
(a)
The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by the Board of Commissioners of Sumter County, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
(1)
Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application for license;
(2)
Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
(3)
Any violation of this article;
(4)
Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
(5)
Conducting the business licensed under this article in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(b)
Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee, at his/her last known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-113; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-44. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the county clerk in regard to the denial of application for license as provided for in section 22-34 of this article or in connection with the revocation of a license as provided for in section 22-43 of this article, shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Commissioners of Sumter County. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the board of commissioners within 14 days after notice of the decision by the county clerk has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The board of commissioners shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in section 22-43 of this article for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the board of commissioners on such appeal shall be final.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-114; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-45. - Expiration of license.
All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall expire 90 days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-115; Ord. of 3-15-05)
Sec. 22-46. - Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine in an amount not less than three times the total license fee paid by the licensee pursuant to section 22-38 of this article or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. of 5-11-93, § L-116; Ord. of 3-15-05)
