Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 38; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 42; roads and bridges, ch. 50; solid waste, ch. 54; subdivisions, ch. 58; utilities, ch. 70.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Water Well Standards Act of 1985, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120; authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; ordinances relating to repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation or buildings or structures that imperil health, safety or morals, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11; authority to demolish structures where drug crimes are committed, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7; county or municipal ordinances relating to unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.; construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; water efficiency requirements, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; flow-rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3; fire escapes in buildings, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50.

Sec. 18-31. - Code requirements and regulations.
(a)
Pursuant to and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25, all of the codes referenced in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i), as modified and amended pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(ii), are hereby adopted by reference.
(b)
The office of code enforcement for Sumter County shall maintain current and up-to-date copies of such codes on file in the code enforcement office and such codes shall be available for inspection and review by the public during regular business hours of the office of code enforcement. Such codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions of such codes shall be controlling within the unincorporated areas of Sumter County.
(c)
The following shall be applicable to such codes:
(1)
Said codes shall be enforced by office of code enforcement and, where applicable, the chief of the county fire department, or his or her designee.
(2)
Any reference to the term "board of adjustments and appeals" in said codes shall mean the Sumter County Zoning Board of Appeals as established by section 23.06, which shall have the same powers, duties, and authority given to the board of adjustments and appeals in said incorporated codes.
(3)
In hearing and deciding appeals from decisions of the office of code enforcement or the chief of the fire department made pursuant to their authority under the state minimum codes, the rules of procedure of the adopted codes shall apply; provided, however, that the rules for appointment and terms of office for the appeals board in said adopted codes shall not be applicable to the zoning board of appeals.
(d)
Any person charged with the violation of any provision of any of such codes, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, §§ 2-101—2-104; Ord. of 3-13-12; Ord. of 4-20-21)
Sec. 18-32. - Applicability.
(a)
No person shall occupy nor shall let, rent or lease to another for occupancy any dwelling, roominghouse, dwelling unit, or rooming unit that does not comply with the minimum standards as set forth in the state minimum standard building codes.
(b)
No person shall use for commercial occupancy or shall let to another for commercial occupancy any commercial building, room or space that does not comply with the minimum standards of the state minimum standard building codes.
(c)
Specifically and specially exempt from this article are all sheds built for the storage of farm equipment, farm supplies and animals. A "shed" is defined as a constructed roof, open on at least one side, and with no electrical supplied to such shed, or not completely enclosed and electrical supply may not be furnished to such shed without compliance with the electrical code. A shed may not be used for residential/commercial use without complying with the building code.
(d)
All persons performing work that is covered by the terms of this article, and who are required to have a valid license from a licensing agency of the state, shall have a valid license at the time of performing any work that is covered by the terms of this article, and shall exhibit the license to the county inspector upon request. No person who is required to be licensed by an agency of the state who does not have a license shall be issued a permit, nor perform any work or service that is covered by the terms of this article.
(e)
Buildings that are 400 square feet in size and smaller that are to be used only for storage, or for parking of automobiles or equipment, are exempt from compliance with the building code. However, if such buildings are ever used for human occupancy, commercial use, they must comply with the building code.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 3-104; Amd. of 6-9-98)
Sec. 18-33. - Building permit and inspection fees.
(a)
Building permit and construction and inspection fees for Sumter County are established as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges issued by the office of code enforcement.
(b)
The building permit and construction and inspection fee for the moving of any building or structure into, out of or within the county shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(c)
The building permit and construction and inspection fee for the demolition of a building or structure within the county shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(d)
Building permits and associated building permit and construction and inspection fees shall also be required for all major renovations, repairs or remodeling undertaken under the same schedule of building permit and inspection fees as provided in this section; except no such building permit and inspection fee shall be required where the renovations, repairs or remodeling cost less than $2,000.00.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, §§ 4-101—4-105; Ord. of 4-20-21)
Sec. 18-34. - Electrical permit and inspection fees.
There are hereby established electrical permit and inspection fees to be paid for work done within the county pursuant to section 18-31, and the fees for such electrical permits and inspections are as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 5-101)
Sec. 18-35. - Plumbing permit and inspection fees.
There are hereby established plumbing permit and inspection fees to be paid for work done within the county pursuant to section 18-31, and the fees for such plumbing and inspection are as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 6-101)
Sec. 18-36. - Mechanical permit and inspection fees.
There are hereby established mechanical permit and inspection fees for permits and inspections required or authorized by the state heating and air conditioning code (the Standard Mechanical Code) as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 7-101)
Sec. 18-37. - Inspections.
The building inspector of the county shall be authorized to carry out such inspections and issue such permits as may be required by this article, but he may only issue such permits upon the payment of the fees as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Such building inspector may make such inspections and investigations, notwithstanding any other provisions of this article providing for any other person or entity to make such inspections.
In accord with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26, applicants may be authorized to employ private inspectors in certain circumstances. Any individual seeking to perform inspections in the county shall, before any such inspections, be prequalified by the county. Such prequalification shall be based on the individual's expertise with respect to the objectives of the inspection, as demonstrated by the individual's experience, education and training. Information relating to the prequalification process may be obtained at the county's code enforcement office.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 8-101; Ord. of 4-20-21)
Sec. 18-38. - Fees and penalties.
Permit and inspection fees required by this article shall be paid for prior to obtaining the permits provided for in this article. Where work for which a permit is required by this article is begun or initiated prior to obtaining the required permit, the fees required by this article shall be paid and, as a penalty for the failure to secure a permit, an additional amount equal to the original fee required shall be paid to the county; however, the payment of such penalty shall not relieve any person from otherwise complying with the requirements of this article in carrying out the work for which the permit is required, nor shall the payment of any such penalty relieve such person from any other penalties prescribed in this article relating to the work performed.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 9-101)
Sec. 18-39. - Work plan prerequisite to issuance.
No building, other structure, or any construction or part thereof shall hereafter be constructed, enlarged or altered until a plan of the proposed work, together with a statement of the materials to be used, shall have been submitted to the county inspector. The applicant shall also submit an estimate of costs of all material to be used in the building. If the construction in accordance with the provisions contained in this article, the building inspector shall issue a permit for the proposed construction.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-101)
Sec. 18-40. - Removal of nonpermitted, nonconforming structures.
Structures erected without a permit or not in conformity with this article shall be removed and the violator prosecuted.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-102)
Sec. 18-41. - Permit to precede work, compliance with technical codes required.
No building shall be constructed, enlarged, altered or moved until a building permit has been obtained from the building inspector; and such official shall not issue such permit if the proposed construction, enlargement, alteration or moving would in any manner violate the housing, building, fire, plumbing, electrical, heating and air conditioning, zoning, or subdivision codes or regulations or any other codes or ordinances adopted by the county.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-103)
Sec. 18-42. - Application for permit.
All applications for building permits shall be made in duplicate upon forms provided for this purpose by the office of the building inspector or county administrator with payment in the amount necessary to cover the cost of such building permit, together with all other exhibits and information as provided and set forth in section 18-31.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-104)
Sec. 18-43. - Persons responsible.
All permits required under the minimum housing standards shall be obtained by the person actually doing the work, or the person in charge and responsible for the performance of the work. The owner of the property is not required to obtain the permit when the owner contracts with someone else to perform the work or oversee the work. The owner may obtain the permit when the owner is doing his own work, or when the owner is his own contractor.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-105)
Sec. 18-44. - Display of permit.
All building permits called for in this article shall be displayed in a manner on the property under construction or on which repairs are being made so as to be visible from the public street closest to such construction site.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-106)
Sec. 18-45. - Penalty for violation.
All persons violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-107)
Sec. 18-46. - Persons in violation of article.
Persons in violation of this article shall be issued a cease and desist order by the building inspector and shall pay a penalty of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each day of noncompliance with this article after the cease and desist order has been issued.
(Ord. of 1-14-97, § 10-108)
