Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Licensing and registration of animals by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; disposal of diseased, disabled, or dead animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-5-1 et seq.; dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1; dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.; animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; cruelty to dogs; authorized killing of dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-5; rabies control, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
Abandon means releasing or leaving an animal on any property, public or private, with the intention of deserting the animal.
Adequate food and water means food and water which is sufficient in amount and appropriate for the particular type of animal to prevent starvation, dehydration, or a significant risk to the animal's health from a lack of food or water.
(1)
Adequate food means palatable, noncontaminated and nutritionally adequate food that is appropriate for the species. Adequate food does not include garbage.
(2)
Adequate water means clean, fresh, potable water.
Adequate shelter means a structure having three sides, a top and bottom which is suitable for the animal's size to protect it from cold, wind and rain and other elements. During cold weather, sufficient bedding inside the shelter shall be present.
Animal means any living thing not a plant, other than humans, rodents and insects.
Animal shelter means any facility operated by the city or in conjunction with the city or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter.
Animal warden or animal control officer means any person that may, from time to time, be designated or employed by the city as a law enforcement officer or agency for the purpose of administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The term "animal warden" or "animal control officer" includes any county animal control officer that is authorized to act on behalf of the city by ordinance or resolution of the city council or by agreement between the city and county governing bodies.
Cat means any feline, regardless of age or sex.
Cruel means causing unnecessary and excessive pain or suffering, or unjustifiable injury or death.
Dog means any canine, regardless of age or sex.
Inoculation against rabies means the injection subcutaneously or otherwise, of rabies vaccine approved by the state department of public health, and administered under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian and a certificate of vaccination or inoculation issued by the veterinarian.
Jurisdiction means, for the enforcement of this chapter, the corporate limits of the city.
Leash means a cord, thong or chain not more than ten feet in length, by which an animal is controlled by the person accompanying the animal. A retractable lead may also be used by a responsible individual if the lead is of adequate strength to control the animal. Retractable leads shall only be used in open areas.
Livestock means cattle, horses, donkeys, swine, sheep, goats, llamas, emus, ostriches, alpacas or farm-raised deer and other such animals susceptible to use for commercial purposes, including domesticated fowl, such as chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, guineas or other poultry.
Owner means any person partnership or corporation owning, possessing, keeping or harboring one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for seven or more consecutive days.
Public nuisance. An animal shall be deemed to be a public nuisance if the animal:
(1)
Is habitually permitted to go upon the property of another person other than its owner or keeper without the express consent of such other property owner or occupant.
(2)
Attacks or acts so as to menace pedestrians or other persons using public ways.
(3)
Habitually barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion.
(4)
Is repeatedly at large.
(5)
Trespasses on school grounds.
Restraint means any animal that is on a leash or at heel or beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands, or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets and roads of the city, or in a fenced area within the real property limits of the owner, or invisible fence systems maintained in good working order. The primary means of restraint of an animal may not be by means of a chain, cable, rope or other stakeout or tie-out device.
Running at large means any animal that is off the property of its owner and not under the control of a competent person.
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 4-3-2, 4-8-21, 4-8-41, 4-11-1, 4-11-12.
Sec. 6-2. - Penalties.
Any person violating this chapter may be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-14)
Sec. 6-3. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the city police department in conjunction with such city personnel as are designated by the city council or appointed from time to time by the police chief to assist the police department in its enforcement duties. City police and other city officers authorized to enforce this chapter are, for those purposes, also designated as "animal control officers" or "animal wardens" as those terms are defined in this article.
(b)
In addition to enforcement of this chapter within the jurisdictional limits of the city, the city police department and all other persons properly appointed by the city to aid the police department in enforcement of this chapter may perform enforcement duties within Lincoln County, Georgia, to the extent authorized by, and subject to any limitation of, agreements that may be entered into from time to time by the city and county for coordinated animal control.
Sec. 6-4. - Interference with animal control officer prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, interfere, harass or otherwise obstruct the performance of any animal control officer in the official performance of his duties as provided for in this chapter.
Secs. 6-5—6-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CARE AND CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to enact ordinances for the protection of animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-18.

Sec. 6-27. - Applicability to dogs.
This article applies to all animals, including dogs. However, with regard to dogs, the provisions of this article are supplemental and in addition to the regulations provided in article III of this chapter.
Sec. 6-28. - Bird sanctuary; wildlife.
(a)
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, molest or kill any wild bird or to rob any wild bird's nest; provided, however, if nuisance birds such as starlings are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality so as to constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the mayor and council, those birds may be destroyed as humanely as possible, under the supervision of the police department, in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by the mayor and council.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, molest or kill any other wild game in the city except by order of the chief of police.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-1)
Sec. 6-29. - Animals running at large.
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally or otherwise to permit any livestock, fowl, or other animal to go at large.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-2)
State Law reference— Livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; disposal of impounded livestock, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-7.
Sec. 6-30. - Enclosures for animals and fowl.
Any housing or enclosure used for the keeping of animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-3)
Sec. 6-31. - Adequate shelter, food, water and medical care required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether owner, person in possession, or any person in charge of any animal, to fail, refuse or neglect to provide such animal with the adequate shelter, necessary food and water, and necessary medical treatment for such animal.
Sec. 6-32. - Cruelty to animals prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to overload, poison, cruelly treat, maim, tease, bruise, deprive of necessary sustenance or medical attention, ill use, deprive of shade and shelter or in any manner whatsoever, torture, kill or abuse any animal.
(b)
No person shall abandon any animal, on any property, public or private or keep an animal under unsanitary conditions.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to transport any dog in an open bed truck except when safely confined in a portable/transport kennel or safely restrained by a harness or tether.
State Law reference— Animal protection, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; performing cruel acts on, harming, maiming or killing dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1.
Sec. 6-33. - Authority to remove abused or neglected animals.
Animal control officers shall be authorized to remove or cause to have removed to a safe location any animal that appears to be abused or suffering undue pain from abuse or neglect as may be necessary to prevent further suffering. The owner or possessor of the animal may be charged according to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4 concerning cruelty to animals.
Sec. 6-34. - Authority to remove animals from vehicles.
The animal control officers may use any force reasonably necessary to remove any animal locked in a closed vehicle if the owner cannot be immediately located. The operator of the vehicle will be charged with cruelty to animals as defined in this chapter. No injunction or claim for damages may be placed against the city or its designees for this action.
Sec. 6-35. - Motorist hitting domestic animals to make report.
Any person who, while operating a motor vehicle, strikes or causes injury to any domestic animal shall notify the owner if known or ascertainable, as well as the police department, of the injury to and location of the animal.
Sec. 6-36. - Nuisance animals prohibited.
It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly keep or harbor public nuisance animals as defined in this chapter.
Sec. 6-37. - Duty of owner in case of animal bite.
Every owner or person harboring or keeping a dog, who knows that such animal has bitten any person, shall immediately report such fact to the police department and shall keep the dog confined pursuant to the requirements this chapter. The owner or keeper of the dog shall surrender the animal to a law enforcement or humane officer, upon demand, for examination.
Sec. 6-38. - Keeping of nondomestic, exotic, and wild animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, or permit at large any exotic animal within the areas of the city without the written permission of the chief of police, who may impose upon the owner reasonable conditions of confinement to ensure the protection and safety of the general public.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to purchase, sell, own, possess, or harbor any skunk, fox, or prairie dog in the city.
Sec. 6-39. - Owner responsible for damage to property.
It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to cause damage to another person's property. The owners of such animals shall continue to be civilly liable for any damage occasioned by the actions of their animals. Property shall include, but not be limited to, pets, livestock, vehicles, etc.
Sec. 6-40. - Vaccination of dogs and cats required.
Any animal owner within the city shall have his animals over three months of age, including both dogs and cats, vaccinated for the prevention of rabies in a manner approved by a licensed veterinarian and consistent with state law.
State Law reference— Responsibility for control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1.
Sec. 6-41. - Report of rabies cases.
(a)
Every veterinarian shall report promptly to the city police department and the county health department all cases of rabies in animals treated by the veterinarian, giving the name and address of the owner and a complete description and history of the animal. Every veterinarian shall also report the names and addresses of the owner of any animals bitten by the rabid animal, so far as known.
(b)
Any person who knows that an animal, domestic or wild, is rabid; or suspects an animal of having rabies; or knows that an animal has been bitten by a rabid animal shall promptly report the information, to the extent known, to the county health department and animal control.
Secs. 6-42—6-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DOGS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; vicious dog control (Mercedes' Law), O.C.G.A. § 4-8-40 et seq.; duties of cities with regard to dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-71. - Vicious or diseased dogs.
(a)
Any dog that has attacked and bitten a person or other animal without provocation or has attempted to bite a person or other animal without provocation shall be deemed a vicious dog.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be responsible for the presence of any vicious or diseased dog on the streets or public places of the city or allow the dog to run on the premises of another, at any time, unless and in addition to the other requirements of this chapter, the dog shall be securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any person or other animal.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-12)
State Law reference— Registration of dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25; muzzling and restraint, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-26; confiscation and destruction, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-27.
Sec. 6-72. - Confinement of female dogs in heat required.
It shall be the duty of any owner, custodian or harborer of any female dog in heat within the city, when she is left unattended, to securely confine such dog inside a building or other enclosure to prevent such dog from coming into contact with another dog except for planned breeding.
State Law reference— Permitting dogs in heat to run free prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6.
Sec. 6-73. - Removal of dog feces from certain areas.
The owner, keeper, walker or person in charge of any dog shall not permit solid fecal matter of such animal to deposit on any street, alley, or other public or private property, unless such matter is immediately removed therefrom by said owner or person in charge. This section shall not apply to a person who is visually or physically handicapped.
Secs. 6-74—6-104. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 6-105. - Authority to impound dogs running at large.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit the dog to run at large at any time, and, if any such dog is found running at large in violation of this provision, it shall be taken up and impounded as provided in this division.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(a))
Sec. 6-106. - Duty of police department and animal control officers; records.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this division, it shall be the duty of every police officer and every animal control officer, if any, appointed pursuant to this chapter, to seize all dogs running at large in violation of this section and to impound such animals in the city pound or other suitable place. Upon receiving any such animal, the city pound keeper shall enter upon the records of the pound, in a book to be kept by him for such purpose, the date of impounding, and a description of the animal impounded.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(b))
Sec. 6-107. - Notice to owner.
Not later than five days after the impounding of any animal as hereinabove provided, the owner shall be notified, or, if the owner of the animal is unknown, written notice shall be posted for five days at two or more conspicuous places in the city, which notice shall describe the animal and indicate the place and time of taking.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(c))
Sec. 6-108. - Redemption.
The owner of any animal impounded by the city pound keeper may redeem the same by paying all the costs, charges, and penalties assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the time of making the redemption, and when the same are paid to the pound keeper, it shall be his duty to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to the owner thereof.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(d))
Sec. 6-109. - Disposition of unclaimed animals.
When the owner of such animal or animals so impounded shall fail and refuse to pay the impounding fee and costs, the animal or animals may be sold at public auction and the proceeds of such sale applied to the cost of impounding such animal or animals under the provisions as hereinafter set forth.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(e))
State Law reference— Euthanasia of dogs and cats by animal shelters, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-5.1; disposal of impounded animals, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.6.
Sec. 6-110. - Fees.
The owner of any animal or animals that are impounded under the provisions of this section shall pay such impounding fees and further fees for the keep of such animal or animals as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-11(f))
State Law reference— Duty to provide for care of impounded animals, lien for costs of care, and return of animals to owner, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.3; notice to owner of impoundment, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.4.
Sec. 6-111. - Summons in lieu of impoundment.
A city officer, at his discretion, may elect not to impound a dog or other animal found in violation of any section of this chapter, but to issue or cause to be issued a summons directed to the owner or possessor of the dog to appear before the municipal court on a certain day to stand trial for the violation of this chapter.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 9-3-13)
