Chapter 40 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to grant right to erect obstructions in streets, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; enclosures of lanes or alleys, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-11; municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Penalties.
All persons found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-9)
Sec. 40-2. - Sidewalk construction; permit required.
No sidewalk of any description of any brick, wood or other material shall be built by any individual, firm or corporation without a written permit from the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-6)
Sec. 40-3. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, bitulithic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 40-4. - Deposits and discharges.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any rubbish or any material that may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or other article that may do injury to any person, animal, or property.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or to allow to be discharged onto any public street or sidewalk any water or other fluid material containing objectionable material such as sewage, waste milk, or other organic material. Thus, it shall be unlawful for anyone to wash autos on the city sidewalks.
Sec. 40-5. - Private use.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street, sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale or to write or make any sign or advertisement on any such pavement.
Sec. 40-6. - Acceptance of new streets.
No new streets shall be accepted by the city unless it meets the standards and specifications for width, grading, base preparation and sealing published by the state department of transportation and identified in the most recent edition of the publication entitled Standard Specifications for Construction of Roads and Bridges, which document is incorporated by reference into this Code, and is filed in the office of the city clerk where it is available for public inspection.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-8)
Secs. 40-7—40-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 40-31. - Permit required; exception.
(a)
No person, firm or corporation shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk.
(b)
A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city, but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 40-32. - Application.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 40-33. - Indemnification of city.
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a permit under this article agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-3)
Sec. 40-34. - Street restoration required; penalties for violation.
(a)
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person, firm or corporation making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 40-35. - Warning devices required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of work.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-1-5)
Secs. 40-36—40-58. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES AND PARADES

Sec. 40-59. - Parades; permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in, conduct or accompany any organized parade or procession, other than a funeral procession, on the public streets, sidewalks or other public property in the city unless an application has been previously filed and a permit granted to conduct such parade or procession within the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-4-1)
Sec. 40-60. - Application for permit.
An application for permit to conduct or sponsor a parade or procession shall be filed with the chief of police in writing and shall contain the following information furnished by the person in official charge of the proposed parade or procession:
(1)
The name of all organizations or persons organizing or sponsoring the parade or procession;
(2)
The purpose of the parade or procession;
(3)
The date and hours of the parade or procession;
(4)
The proposed route of the parade or procession, and its beginning and termination points;
(5)
The number and types of vehicles, marching units and floats to be used in the parade or procession; and
(6)
The number of persons participating in the parade or procession.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-4-2)
Sec. 40-61. - Investigation.
The chief of police shall investigate all applications for parade permits, and may issue the permit, when the information required by this article has been furnished, and provided the proposed parade or procession is otherwise lawful and can be held without undue interference with vehicular and pedestrian traffic within the city, regarding which circumstances the chief of police shall exercise his discretion.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-4-3)
