Chapter 20 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire prevention and protection generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.; local fire departments generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-1 et seq.; minimum requirements for local fire departments, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-20 et seq.; authority of local government units to enact fire prevention regulations, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; firefighter standards and training, O.C.G.A. § 25-4-1; regulation of blasting generally, O.C.G.A. § 25-8-1 et seq.; regulation of fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; volunteer firefighters for counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-23.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - Penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or fire code adopted by the city or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of an offense, punishable as provided in section 1-13.
(b)
The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, each seven days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The application of the penalty in this section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-27)
Secs. 20-2—20-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 20-21. - Established; enforcement of fire code.
The fire prevention code adopted by the city shall be enforced by the fire department, which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the supervision of the fire chief.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-22(a))
Sec. 20-22. - Appointment of chief; removal.
The fire chief in charge of the fire department fire shall be appointed by the mayor and council on the basis of examination to determine his qualifications. His appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service, and he shall not be removed from office except for cause after public trial.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-22(b))
Sec. 20-23. - Inspectors.
The chief of the fire department is permitted to detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of the fire department shall recommend to the city the employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-22(c))
Sec. 20-24. - Annual report.
A report of the fire department shall be made annually and transmitted to the city council; it shall contain all proceedings under the fire code, with such statistics as the chief of the fire department decides to include therein. The chief of the fire department shall also recommend any amendments to the fire code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-22(d))
Sec. 20-25. - Fire chief and members.
The fire department shall be headed by a fire chief and shall be composed of such other paid and volunteer members and employees as may be determined necessary by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-1)
Sec. 20-26. - Assistance to be provided by other city officials.
The chief of the fire department may request and shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the municipality.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-22(e))
Sec. 20-27. - Traffic authority of fire department personnel.
Whenever the fire department is answering an alarm or operating at the scene of a fire or other emergency, every enrolled member of the department is hereby empowered and authorized to control and direct motor vehicle traffic, stop or move vehicles, and enforce all provisions of this article and any other Code provisions, the enforcement of which is deemed necessary to assist in the control of the fire or other emergency.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-3)
Secs. 20-28—20-53. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PROHIBITED ACTS

Sec. 20-54. - Interfering with equipment.
No person other than a duly enrolled member of the fire department shall ride upon the fire trucks of the city at any time, nor use, borrow or interfere with any fire department equipment, or attempt to use the equipment at the scene of a fire unless authorized to do so by the fire chief.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-2)
Sec. 20-55. - Tampering with alarm system.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, maliciously or mischievously interfere or tamper with any fire alarm box or any of the appliances or apparatus connected therewith, located within the corporate limits.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-4)
State Law reference— False fire alarms, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Secs. 20-56—20-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE CODE

Sec. 20-86. - Adoption; enforced by chapter, building and zoning regulations.
The city's fire code shall be as adopted in section 8-29. The fire code shall be enforced as provided in this chapter and as provided in the city's building and zoning regulations.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-21)
Sec. 20-87. - Power to make modifications.
The fire chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the intent of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-24)
Sec. 20-88. - Appeals.
Whenever the fire chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant is permitted to appeal from the decision of the fire chief to the mayor and council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-25)
Sec. 20-89. - New materials, processes or occupancies which require permits.
(a)
The mayor and council, the chief of the fire department and the fire chief shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits in addition to those now enumerated in the code.
(b)
The fire chief shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-2-26)
Sec. 20-90. - Right to enter for inspection.
The mayor and council, the fire chief and other designated city personnel may enter any premises within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of making inspections or investigations at all reasonable hours; provided that except in cases of emergency, the right and authority conferred by this section shall not apply to the entry of a private residence unless written notice is served on the occupant thereof. Such written notice shall contain a statement of the time that inspection will be made and shall also contain a statement of the purpose of such inspection or investigation.
State Law reference— Right of certain fire officials and delegees to enter for purposes of inspection, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-22; local inspectors and inspections for building code enforcement purposes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; inspection of fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-51; municipal duty and authority to conduct fire safety inspections, O.C.G.A. § 25-5-12.
