Chapter 38 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste management generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1; hazardous waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-79; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings and disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; authorization for local government units to enforce collection of taxes, fees, or assessments for solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3; authority of local governments to adopt and enforce local regulations for the handling and disposal of solid waste, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Premises means land, buildings, or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored for collection.
Refuse means all solid wastes of a community, including garbage, ashes, dead animals, rubbish, street cleanings, and solid market and industrial wastes, but not including body wastes.
Responsible authority means the city sanitation department or its authorized representative who shall be authorized and directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-1)
Sec. 38-2. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by section 1-13.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-12)
Sec. 38-3. - Accumulation prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, abandon, leave, keep, store, suffer or permit the placement, abandonment, leaving, keeping or storage of nonfunctioning motor vehicles or appliances out of doors upon any public or private property within the city.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-9(a))
Sec. 38-4. - Functions of the responsible authority.
The responsible authority, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of this city, is authorized and directed, by implementing and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, to control the storage, collection and disposal of refuse within the city, to provide a public refuse collection and refuse disposal service from designated sites or premises within the city so that the type and usual quantity of refuse can be safely and expeditiously handled by such public refuse collection and disposal service, or to approve and regulate the establishment, maintenance, and operation of private refuse collection systems and refuse disposal methods and sites.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-2)
Sec. 38-5. - Funds, appropriation, borrowing and other means.
The city council is authorized to make funds available by appropriation, by borrowing or by other means in accordance with the laws and procedures of this city, for equipment for the collection or disposal of refuse, and for the establishment, maintenance and operation of refuse collection systems and refuse disposal methods and sites.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-3(a))
Secs. 38-6—38-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 38-29. - Prohibitions; private responsibility.
(a)
The owner or his agent, or the occupant of any premises within the city shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of the premises occupied by him, and it shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to be placed or deposited on his premises any refuse except as designated by the terms of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to permit refuse except bulky rubbish to accumulate on any premises, except in containers which are approved by the city council in accordance with specifications contained in this chapter.
(c)
Any person responsible for refuse on premises not served by the refuse collection system of the city, or refuse not acceptable for collection by the city, shall make arrangements for the collection and disposal of such refuse.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or bury or cause to be dumped or buried any garbage, refuse, solid waste, or rubbish anywhere in the city not previously approved by the city and/or the appropriate state authorities.
(e)
Improper disposal prohibited. The disposal of solid waste in any manner that will impair the air quality, impair the quality of ground or surface water, impair the quality of the environment or likely create other hazards to the public health, safety, or wellbeing is prohibited.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-4; Ord. of 07-06-2021(1))
Sec. 38-30. - Refuse collection.
The city shall collect all refuse acceptable for collection as provided in this chapter from all single-family dwellings, all multi-family or apartment dwellings, and from certain types of institutions and business and industrial establishments.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-10)
Sec. 38-31. - Place of collection.
All refuse to be collected by the city shall be placed not more than 100 feet from property line abutting the main street. All rubbish such as yard clippings and bulky items shall be placed at the curb in suitable containers.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-11)
Sec. 38-32. - Roll carts; hot ashes; tampering with carts.
(a)
Except for bulky items, refuse shall be disposed of by a system approved by the city known as the "roll cart system." Ashes containing hot embers shall not be placed in containers for collection.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, remove covers, overturn or otherwise damage receptacles; or to create litter or health problems.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-9(e)—(g))
Sec. 38-33. - Bulky items.
Bulky rubbish such as trees, weeds and large cardboard boxes must be bundled so as not to exceed four feet in length or 50 pounds in weight.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-9(d))
Sec. 38-34. - Refuse acceptable for collection.
The following refuse shall be considered to be acceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Garbage. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of foods.
(2)
Ashes. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible materials.
(3)
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, metals and similar materials.
(4)
Dead animals. Small dead animals, not exceeding 75 pounds each in weight, which die in the normal course of community activity, excluding condemned animals, animals from a slaughter house or other animals normally considered industrial refuse, shall be removed by the city upon request.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-7)
Sec. 38-35. - Refuse not acceptable for collection.
The following types of refuse are not acceptable for city collection:
(1)
Dangerous materials or substances (i.e., poisons, acids, caustics, infected materials and explosives).
(2)
Unusual quantities of materials resulting from the repair, excavation or construction of buildings or structures (i.e., earth, plaster, mortar, bricks and roofing materials).
(3)
Materials which have not been prepared for collection in accordance with these regulations.
(4)
The solid wastes resulting from industrial processes.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-8)
Sec. 38-36. - Service charges.
Refuse service charges within the city, for the purpose of financing the establishment, maintenance and operation of refuse collection systems or refuse disposal methods and sites, shall be in the amount established by the city council, payable monthly as a separate item in conjunction with the water and sewerage bill. Such refuse service charges shall be collected by the city clerk.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-3(b), (c))
Sec. 38-37. - Unlawful burning.
(a)
The burning of construction and demolition debris is prohibited, even if the property owner(s) grants express permission.
(b)
The burning of solid waste is prohibited in any manner, even if the burning is done safely.
(Ord. of 07-06-2021(1))
Secs. 38-38—38-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 38-61. - Inspection.
(a)
The mayor and council shall devise a method to periodically inspect each and every premises within the city in such a manner as to systematically locate existing nonfunctioning motor vehicles or appliances and require the abatement thereof.
(b)
The responsible authority, upon presenting proper identification, shall have the power to enter upon private or public property at reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, §§ 4-2-6, 4-2-9(c))
Sec. 38-62. - Notice of nonemergency violation.
(a)
Whenever the responsible authority determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, it shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons responsible therefor, as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The notice shall be in writing, include a statement of reasons why it is being issued, allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires, and be served upon the owner or his agent or the occupant of such premises. The notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when a copy thereof has been served personally on the owner or his agent or the occupant by any law enforcement officer of the city.
(c)
The notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and state that, unless conditions or practices described in such notice which violate this chapter are corrected within the reasonable time specified in such notice, a penalty as hereinafter provided will be assessed.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-5(a))
Sec. 38-63. - Request for and conduct of hearing on nonemergency order.
(a)
Any person who is affected by any notice issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter may request, and shall be granted, a hearing on the matter before the city council; provided that such person shall, within ten days after the day on which the notice was served, file a written petition, in the office of the responsible authority, requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor.
(b)
Upon receipt of such petition, the responsible authority shall set a time and place for such a hearing. The petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
(c)
The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the day on which the petition was filed; provided that upon application of the petitioner, the responsible authority may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond such ten-day period when, in its judgment, the petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-5(b))
Sec. 38-64. - Decision of city council after hearing appeal of nonemergency order.
After such hearing, the mayor and council shall sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice, depending upon its finding based on such hearing as to whether or not the provisions of this chapter have been complied with. If the mayor and council sustains or modifies such notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice shall automatically become an order if written petition for hearing has not been filed in the office of the responsible authority within ten days after such notice was served.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-5(c))
Sec. 38-65. - Emergency orders; notice and time of appeal to city council.
(a)
Whenever the responsible authority finds that an emergency exists involving a serious health hazard which requires immediate action to protect the public health, it may, without notice or hearing, issue a written order reciting the existence of such an emergency and the conditions violating this chapter which require corrective action to remove such health hazard. If such corrective action is not taken, the responsible authority may take such action as may be necessary to protect the public health.
(b)
Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the mayor and council shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible but, in any case, not later than three days after the petition is filed.
(c)
After such hearing, depending upon its finding as to whether or not the provisions of this chapter have been complied with, the mayor and council shall continue such order in effect, modify it, or revoke it.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-5(e))
Sec. 38-66. - Records; appeal.
The proceedings at such hearing, including the finding and decision of the mayor and council, shall be summarized, reduced to writing, and entered as a matter of public record in the office of the responsible authority. Such record shall include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the matter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the mayor and council may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of this state.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 4-2-5(d))
