Chapter 28 - LAW ENFORCEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Law enforcement generally, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-1 et seq.; compensation of law enforcement officers on commission basis prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-9; dispatch centers to have trained communications officers on staff, O.C.G.A. § 36-26-19.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Disposition of stolen abandoned and impounded property.
All personal property seized or abandoned and in the custody of the police department shall be disposed of only in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 17-5-54.
Sec. 28-2. - Wrecker services; call list.
A call list of wrecker services is established for police department use. All local wrecker services licensed within the city shall appear on the call list. Any wrecker service located outside the city limits which wishes to be placed on the call list must first purchase a business license under the provisions of this chapter.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 7-1-22)
Secs. 28-3—28-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - POLICE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 28-23. - Composition of department.
The police department shall consist of those officers and employees of those ranks and positions as approved by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-1-1)
Sec. 28-24. - Responsibilities.
The department shall be responsible for patrol, traffic control, investigation of accidents, investigation of crimes, apprehension of offenders, court appearances, security of business establishments and for any other matters of public safety and law enforcement as directed by the mayor and council.
(Comp. Ords. 1998, § 3-1-2)
Sec. 28-25. - Oath.
Prior to entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all officers of the police department shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed by the city council.
Sec. 28-26. - Police chief.
(a)
The police chief shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall be the chief executive officer of the police department, subject always to the orders and regulations of the mayor and the city council.
(b)
In the exercise of his duties, the police chief shall have the power to establish and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the members and employees of the department, which rules shall, however, be consistent with this Code, all other resolutions and ordinances of the city, and the laws of the state.
(c)
In the event of resignation, removal, death, or disability of the police chief, the officer next in rank shall perform the duties of the chief until removal of such disability or until a successor has been duly appointed.
Sec. 28-27. - Police operations manual.
The chief of police shall be responsible for compilation and maintenance of a city police department operations manual, copies of which shall be available in the offices of the city clerk and the city police chief.
