Chapter 7 - PLANNING

Sec. 7-1. - Historic zones.
Article XI of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
The governing authority of the City of Atlanta is hereby authorized to establish one (1) or more historic zones in the city as such governing authority may from time to time deem appropriate and to enact appropriate planning and zoning ordinances applicable thereto.
The purposes of such planning and zoning ordinances shall be to promote the education, cultural, economic welfare of the City of Atlanta by preserving and protecting historic buildings, places, and districts, and to promote the general welfare through the benefits resulting to the economy of the City of Atlanta in developing and maintaining its tourism industry.
As used herein, an historic zone is a district or area within which the buildings, structures, appurtenances and places are of basic and vital importance for the development and maintenance of the community's tourism industry, its culture and for the protection of property values because of their association with history; because of their unique architectural style and scale, including color, proportions, form and architectural details; or because of their being a part of or related to an area, the design or general arrangement of which should be preserved and/or developed according to a fixed plan based on economic, cultural, historical or architectural motives or purposes.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1826, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 1515, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4826.
Sec. 7-2. - Notice to tax assessing official of zoning changes.
The planning departments of all counties and municipalities located in whole or in part therein, said counties having within its borders the population of 500,000 or more, according to the United States Census of 1960, or any future United States Census, shall furnish the tax assessing official of such counties and municipalities with notification of any zoning changes made within such counties and municipalities not more than 60 days from the date of said zoning changes.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 3480, § 1)
Sec. 7-3. - Restriction on rezoning of annexed land.
Any other law to the contrary notwithstanding, whenever any municipality of this state, which is located wholly within any county of this state having a population of not less than 500,000 or more than 600,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, shall annex any land by incorporating same into the corporate limits of such municipality pursuant to general laws authorizing such annexation, such land shall not be rezoned for a different use or the zoning status otherwise changed from that which existed at the time of annexation to such municipality for a period of two years from the time when such annexation became effective, unless the governing authority of the county wherein such municipality is located shall approve such rezoning or change in zoning status.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 4114, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3310, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 2343, § 1)
