Chapter 26 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Damage to sewer property, § 46-24.

Sec. 26-1. - Disorderly conduct—Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of the city, to disturb or endanger the public peace or decency by any disorderly conduct.
(Ord. of 9-10-90, § 1)
State Law reference— Public indecency, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8; offenses against public order, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-30 et seq.
Sec. 26-2. - Same—Acts constituting.
The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be and constitute disorderly conduct:
(1)
Use of obscene, abusive or profane language;
(2)
Making of any threats of violence to or against any other person;
(3)
Being drunk, or the extravagant use of alcoholic beverages, drugs or distilled spirits;
(4)
Being noisy and disorderly in or upon any street or other public place in the city;
(5)
Making any indecent or immoral exposure of the person;
(6)
The reckless and dangerous use of firearms or dangerous weapons;
(7)
Any noisy or riotous conduct to the disturbance of the public peace and tranquility;
(8)
Engaging in, promoting, encouraging, aiding or abetting any fight, riot or noisy and disorderly proceeding on any street or public place, or in any private building or dwelling or on any private premises when persons residing in the vicinity of the private building, dwelling or premises are disturbed; or
(9)
Assault and battery upon any person on any street or public place, or in any private building or dwelling or on any private premises when persons residing in the vicinity of the private building, dwelling or premises are disturbed.
(Ord. of 9-10-90, § 2)
Sec. 26-3. - Loitering or prowling; obstructing public ways—Creating alarm.
(a)
A person commits a violation of this Code if such person loiters or prowls in a place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm is warranted is the fact that the actor takes flight upon appearance of a peace officer, refuses to identify such person's self or manifestly endeavors to conceal such person's self or any object.
(b)
With respect to circumstances warranting alarm, unless flight by the actor or other circumstances makes it impractical, a peace officer, shall prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by requesting such person to identify such person's self and explain such person's presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section, with respect to circumstances warranting alarm, if the peace officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if believed by the peace officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
(Ord. of 9-11-78)
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36.
Sec. 26-4. - Same—Blocking public way.
A person commits a violation of this Code if such person shall by such person's presence or by any means, either alone or in consort with others, interferes with, blocks or interrupts the free passage of the public of a street, sidewalk, park, city square or public building or other public place or impedes pedestrian traffic of the aforesaid places, so as to create a breach of the peace, disturbance, or annoyance to the comfort and repose of any person, or to obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in a public place, by conduct including the making of unsolicited remarks of offensive, disgusting or insulting nature.
(Ord. of 9-11-78)
Sec. 26-5. - Same—Public assembly not restricted.
Sections 26-3 and 26-4 are not to be construed to prohibit innocent public assembly, but is to go directly to conduct calculated to do harm to persons or property and to protect and preserve the safety, peace, good order and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and to prevent conduct in public places dangerous to the public.
(Ord. of 9-11-78)
Sec. 26-6. - Regulation of firearms.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "firearm" includes any handgun, rifle, shotgun or any other weapon which will, or can be modified to, expel any projectile by the action of an explosive or electrical charge.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within 50 yards of any dwelling place whether occupied or unoccupied or within 50 yards of any street, roadway, alley or any other passageway used for the travel of vehicles or pedestrians. It shall further be unlawful to discharge any firearm within any residential area of the city. It shall further be unlawful to discharge any firearm in such a manner that the impact area of any projectile fired shall be inside any area already prohibited by this section. The foregoing shall not apply to any police officer firing any firearm in the course of their duties. It shall also not apply to any person discharging any firearm in defense of person or property.
(c)
This section shall be enforced by the police department of the city, also by any other law enforcement officer having jurisdiction. Any person who violates this section shall be tried before the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. of 5-2-94, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 26-7. - Curfew for parks and recreational facilities.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person or vehicle of any type whatsoever to go on, upon, or across any property or portion thereof used by the city as a municipal park or any property or portion thereof used by the city as a recreation area including, but not limited to, ball fields, playground areas, streets, parking areas, lanes, alleys, and paths, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(b)
Any vehicles found on any city municipal park or recreation area in violation of subsection (a) hereof may be towed away at the direction of appropriate city officers or employees with all expenses of towing and storage to be charged to the owner of such vehicle and collected prior to the release of such vehicle.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person over the age of 12 years to use the playground equipment maintained by the city on city property used for playgrounds.
(d)
This article shall be enforced by the City of Trenton Police Department.
(Ord. of 5-1-2000, §§ 1—4)
