Chapter 10 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2014-4, Arts. I—IX, adopted Nov. 3, 2014, amended Ch. 10 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Ch. 10, §§ 10-1, 10-2, 10-23—10-32, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Res. of 9-18-1967, §§ I—IX; Ord. of 3-16-1987; Res. of 12-21-1992.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; county governing authority given power to regulate alcoholic beverages permitting and licensing, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; governing authority of county has power to locally regulate, license, and tax the manufacturing, distribution and selling of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-40 et seq., and 3-5-80 et seq.; governing authority of county has power to locally regulate, license, and tax the manufacturing, distribution and selling of wine, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-6-40 et seq., and 3-6-60 et seq.; local government may authorize issuance of license to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on premises where sold, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known as the "Coffee County Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. I, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-2. - Definitions.
When used in this chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol shall mean alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage shall mean all consumable alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Adult shall mean any individual 21 years of age or older.
Board of commissioners or board shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Coffee County, Georgia.
Bona fide nonprofit civic organization shall mean an entity which is exempt from federal income tax pursuant to the provisions of subsections (c), (d), or (e) of U.S.C. Section 501.
Brownbagging shall mean bringing onto and/or consuming upon any premises alcoholic beverages not lawfully purchased upon such premises.
Brownbagging establishment shall mean any business, commercial establishment, or other facility or location upon which the owner, lessee, operator, or their respective employees, agents, or representatives thereof allow, facilitate, permit, or participate in brownbagging upon its premises.
County shall mean Coffee County, Georgia.
County administrator shall mean the County Administrator of Coffee County, Georgia.
Department of revenue or department shall mean the Georgia Department of Revenue.
Distilled spirits shall mean any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Establishment shall mean any physical location involving the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages in unincorporated Coffee County.
Fortified wine shall mean any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
His, her, he, she, it, they, them, and their shall, as the context may require, include any other gender and the singular or the plural, for a proper reading.
License shall mean a license granted under this chapter to a licensee for the operation of an establishment in unincorporated Coffee County
Licensee shall mean the person to whom a particular valid license has been granted under this chapter.
Licensor shall mean the board of commissioners.
Malt beverage shall mean any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Minor shall mean any individual under 21 years of age.
O.C.G.A. shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Premises shall mean and include without limitation all or any portion of all buildings, structures, porches, decks, patios, and other improvements, together with all grounds, lawns, gardens, sidewalks, parking lots, and other outdoor areas, of or upon a property or location.
Private club means a nonprofit organization which is organized under state law which meets each of the following requirements:
(1)
Has either a tax exempt status under section 501 of the United States Internal Revenue Code or operates pursuant to a charter from a state or national parent organization which has such tax exempt status;
(2)
Has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for an alcoholic beverage license to be issued pursuant to this chapter;
(3)
Has at least 50 members paying dues on a regular periodic basis;
(4)
Is organized and operated exclusively for the pleasure and recreation of its members and their guests or for other nonprofit purposes;
(5)
Has facilities which are available for use only by the membership thereof and their guests and not by the general public;
(6)
Owns, rents or leases a building or space within a building for facilities for the use of its members and their guests;
(7)
Maintains kitchen and dining room space, equipment and items necessary to appropriately provide food service of full course meals for its members and their guests;
(8)
Is staffed with a sufficient number of employees for the preparation and service of meals for its members and their guests;
(9)
Has no member, officer, agent or employee directly or indirectly receiving, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits, beyond a fixed salary, from the sale of alcoholic beverages to the club or to its members or their guests; and
(10)
Has such licenses as are required for the operation thereof.
Private event shall mean a specific social, business, fraternal, or recreational event for which an entire building, room, hall or area, indoors or out of doors, is leased, rented, reserved, or otherwise obtained in advance by a person, entity, club, or other group, and at which attendance is limited to persons who are in advance specifically designated. A private event does not include an event to which the general public is invited or at which members of the general public are allowed to attend, whether or not an admission fee, cover charge, or minimum purchase is charged.
Restaurant means a business kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly prepared and served for a period of at least five hours per day on at least three days per week with the exception of (i) holidays, (ii) vacations not exceeding two weeks duration, and (iii) periods of redecorating not exceeding 30 calendar days duration except to the extent extended by the board of commissioners in its discretion upon request therefor; and which meets all of the following requirements:
(1)
Meets all health and sanitation requirements for food service establishments required under applicable federal, state and local laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations;
(2)
Maintains upon the premises thereof in operative condition cooking and kitchen facilities and equipment appropriate to accommodate the preparation of meals for 50 food service customers at one time;
(3)
Maintains upon the premises thereof seating facilities, at booths or tables designed for food service, sufficient for at least 50 food service customers at one time, not including seating provided by counters and stools, with booths and tables for purposes hereof being large enough to adequately accommodate at least two place settings of cutlery and dishes;
(4)
Maintains at all times such additional facilities, equipment and items as well as employees as shall be necessary for the cooking, preparation and service of meals for consumption at tables or booths located upon the premises for at least 50 food service customers at one time;
(5)
Is at all times during the hours of operation thereof prepared to serve full course meals with substantial entrees from a substantial variety of culinary choices, or substantial substitutes therefor, chosen by food service customers from a printed menu available to all food service customers at prices which are competitive with other restaurants in the community whether or not such other restaurants engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages; and
(6)
Derives at least 50 percent of its total gross food and beverage sales from the sale of full course meals prepared, served and consumed upon the premises thereof.
Retail consumption dealer shall mean any person who sells any alcoholic beverage for consumption on the premises where sold at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Retailer or retail dealer shall mean any person who sells any alcoholic beverage in unbroken packages for consumption off of the premises where sold at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Social host party, gathering, or event shall mean a group or gathering of three or more individuals at least two of whom are minors who have assembled or are assembling for any party, social occasion, or social activity.
State shall mean the State of Georgia.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer shall mean any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine shall mean any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 24 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. III, § 3-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-3. - Penalties.
In addition to the other provisions of this chapter, violations of this chapter may be cited to the Coffee County Magistrate Court which may impose penalties for such violations in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. Article 4, Chapter 10, Title 15 governing violations of county ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IX, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-4—10-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SALE OR DISTRIBUTION IN UNINCORPORATED AREA OF COUNTY; LICENSE A PRIVILEGE; STATE LICENSE REQUIRED

Sec. 10-21. - License required.
No malt beverage, wine, distilled spirits, or any other alcoholic beverage(s) shall be sold or distributed at wholesale or at retail for consumption either on or off the premises where sold in the unincorporated area of the county except under an appropriate license granted by the board of commissioners upon the terms and conditions provided in this chapter and then only for the particular alcoholic beverage and manner of distribution and/or sale specified in such license and only at the establishment specified in such license.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. II, § 2-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-22. - License a privilege; license nontransferable.
All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be a mere grant of a privilege to carry on the licensed activity during the term of the license, subject to all terms and conditions imposed by this and other applicable county ordinances or resolutions and by state law, rules and regulations. No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable to any other person; any such other person desiring a license under this chapter for the same or different activity or establishment shall be required to make separate application therefore under the provisions of the chapter. Provided, however, that in the case of death of any natural person holding a license pursuant to this chapter such license may be transferred to the deceased licensee's personal representative, if the personal representative otherwise meets the licensing requirements of this chapter, upon such personal representative's application to the county for such transfer, without any additional license fee during the remaining term of such license. If a licensed establishment moves its business and operations to a different location within the unincorporated area of the county then such new location shall be required to apply for and obtain a separate license for such new location.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. II, § 2-2, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-23. - State license required.
Any holder of a license pursuant to this chapter is required, before conducting, engaging in or carrying out the licensed activity to apply for and obtain any and all applicable licenses from the state as required by O.C.G.A., Title 3.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. II, § 2-3, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-24. - Conflicts.
Should there be a conflict in the requirements and provisions of this chapter and other county ordinances or resolutions, then this chapter shall control.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. II, § 2-4, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-25—10-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LICENSING

Sec. 10-41. - Licenses which may be issued under this chapter.
(a)
Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Distilled Spirits).
(b)
Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Malt Beverages).
(c)
Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Wine).
(d)
Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Distilled Spirits).
(e)
Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Malt Beverages).
(f)
Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Wine).
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-42. - Annual license and other fees.
The fees for the respective licenses and administrative fee, as provided in this chapter shall be as set out in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-2, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-43. - Disqualification from licensure.
(a)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate, an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages in any area prohibited by law or by zoning ordinance.
(b)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages which establishment is within 100 yards of the premises of any church building. No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of, and no person shall otherwise operate, an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of wine or malt beverages within 100 yards, or of distilled spirits within 200 yards, of the premises of any school building, educational building, school grounds, or college campus. For purposes of measuring said distances, said distance shall be measured from the closest point of the premises of the site for which an alcoholic beverage is applied for to the closest point of the premises of the church building, school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus, as the case may be.
(c)
No license shall be granted under this chapter to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages who has been convicted of a felony.
(d)
No license shall be granted under this chapter: (i) to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages who has been convicted within the last five years of a misdemeanor or other violation involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules or regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(e)
No license shall be issued under this chapter to any person who is not lawfully present in the United States or, if such person is not an individual, where the individual making the application on behalf of such person is not himself lawfully present in the United States.
(f)
No license shall be issued under this chapter to any person who is not registered to use and is using the Federal Work Authorization Program, where required of such person by O.C.G.A § 36-60-6.
(g)
No license application shall be considered by the board of commissioners for the issuance of a license for the operation of an establishment involving the distribution, sale, or consumption of alcoholic beverages where a similar application involving said license applicant or said establishment has been denied by the board within the preceding 12 months or where a license held by the said license applicant (whether for this or another establishment) or a license (whether held by said license applicant or by another licensee) for the said establishment has been revoked by the board within the preceding 12 months.
(h)
No license shall be issued under this chapter for the retail sale at an establishment of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold where such establishment is licensed for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages for off premises consumption. Likewise, no license shall be issued under this chapter for the retail sale at an establishment of any alcoholic beverages for off premises consumption where such establishment is licensed for retail sale of any alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-3, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-44. - License application.
(a)
Any person desiring to obtain a license from the county pursuant to this chapter shall submit an application therefor which shall contain the following information:
(1)
The specific license being applied for.
(2)
Full name of the applicant, including any aliases, trade names, or other names under which the applicant has been known or conducted business during the past three years, and, in the case of a partnership, limited liability company, firm, association, corporation, or other non-natural person, the name of the individual or agent who shall be held responsible for compliance with the provisions of this chapter. In the event the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or firm, the names and addresses of all owners of the partnership, joint venture or firm shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is an association or corporation, the names and addresses of its principal officers, directors, and the three stockholders owning the largest amounts of stock in the applicant entity shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the three members owning the largest amounts of ownership interest and of, if any, its managers and principal officers shall be furnished. In the event the applicant is any other type of entity or non-natural person, the names and addresses of all the members of its governing body, officers and others having management, control, or dominion over such applicant shall be furnished.
(3)
The complete mailing and location addresses of the applicant and the location address of the establishment at which the activity for which a license hereunder is being sought will be conducted. The applicant shall also submit with the application a copy of a valid deed showing that the applicant owns the property on which the establishment to be licensed is located or a copy of a valid lease showing that the applicant has a leasehold interest sufficient for the applicant to operate a business or enterprise at the property on which the establishment is to be located involving the sale, distribution and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages of the type and in the manner for which licensure is sought.
(4)
The type of establishment to be operated and the category of alcoholic beverage related functions and activities to be conducted at such establishment.
(5)
The name and location address of each of the nearest church building, school building, educational building, school grounds, and college campus, in each case to the property on which the establishment to be licensed is located.
(6)
Whether or not the applicant, any person listed under subparagraph (2) above, or any employee in the applicant's establishment for which licensure is being sought has previously been refused a license (or a similar license from another jurisdiction). If the answer is in the affirmative, state the month and year of such refusal, the jurisdiction refusing the license, and the circumstances surrounding such refusal.
(7)
Whether or not the applicant or any person named in subparagraph (2) above, having previously obtained a license (or a similar license from another jurisdiction), has had the same suspended or revoked. If the answer is in the affirmative, state the month and year of such suspension or revocation, the jurisdiction suspending or revoking the license, and the circumstances surrounding such suspension or revocation.
(8)
Whether or not the applicant, or any person identified in subparagraph (2) above has been convicted of a felony.
(9)
Whether or not the applicant, or any person identified in subparagraph (2) above has been convicted within the last five years of a misdemeanor or other violations involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substances Act (or similar laws of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules or regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(10)
A consent statement executed by the applicant that all necessary investigation reports on the applicant, any person identified in subparagraph (2) above, or any employees in the applicant's establishment for which licensure is being sought including, but not limited to, credit reports and reports from law enforcement agencies, may be obtained; that any information in such reports may be furnished to the licensor; and that applicant will be responsible for the cost thereof. If so requested by Licensor, applicant shall also obtain such consent forms therefore, as the case may be, from each person identified in subparagraph (2) above. Licensor may, at its option, require fingerprinting and/or photographs of applicant, each person identified in subparagraph (2) above for the purposes of conducting its investigation with respect to application for an initial license or a license renewal.
(11)
Prior to issuance or renewal of any license the applicant therefore shall provide to the county with such application therefore: (i) in order to verify the applicant's (or the individual making the application on behalf of the applicant) lawful presence in the United States, the applicant shall submit the signed and sworn Affidavit required by O.C.G.A. § 50-36-1(e)(2) and at least one "secure and verifiable document" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 50-36-2(b)(3), and (ii) in order to verify the applicant's registration with and utilization of the Federal Work Authorization Program as defined in and required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6 that the applicant is authorized to use such Federal Work Authorization Program (or evidence that it is not required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6 to use such Program), the applicant shall submit the signed and sworn Affidavit required by O.C.G.A § 36-60-6.
(12)
The accuracy and completeness of the information, documents and statements contained in said application or submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto shall be sworn to by or on behalf of the applicant before a notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths.
(13)
The applicant shall attach, with the application, funds in the amount of the annual license fee in the amounts set forth in Appendix A for the license for which application is being made.
(14)
The applicant shall submit such further information as the county shall request having a reasonable relationship to the consideration of the desirability of the issuance to applicant of the license sought.
(b)
In addition to the other qualifications set forth herein, an applicant for a retail dealer-consumption on the premises license must meet all of the requirements of either the following subsection (1) restaurant or subsection (2) private club.
(1)
Restaurant. No license will be issued unless the license applicant likewise operates a restaurant upon the proposed licensed premises and such restaurant:
a.
Sells food prepared, served and consumed on the premises and such food sales constitute at least 50 percent of the gross income of all food and beverage sales on the premises. The term "gross income" shall not include tips or gratuities which may be added to the base food bill; and
b.
Has permanent seating capacity at tables and booths, not counting bar stools, for at least 50 persons; and
c.
Meets all of the definitional requirements of "restaurant" set forth in section 10-2 of this chapter.
(2)
Private club. No license will be issued unless the license applicant likewise operates a food service facility upon the proposed licensed premises which is a private club and such private club:
a.
Sells food prepared, served and consumed on the premises and such food sales constitute at least 50 percent of the gross income of all food and beverage sales on the premises. The term "gross income" shall not include tips or gratuities which may be added to the base food bill; and
b.
Meets all the definitional requirements of "private club" set forth in section 10-2 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-4, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-45. - Submission of application; payment of fee with application.
Applications for the license and accompanying annual license fee shall be submitted to the county administrator (or his or her designee). If an application is denied by the board of commissioners, the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-5, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-46. - Publication of notice.
(a)
Upon the filing of the application for a license for retail sale of distilled spirits for consumption off of the premises where sold or upon the filing of the application for a license for retail sale of any alcoholic beverage by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold, the applicant shall publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for two weeks, setting forth that such application has been filed.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-6, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-47. - Considerations for license grant.
In determining the question of the granting or refusal of the license applied for hereunder, the board shall consider: the location of the establishment for which licensure is being sought; the uses of the property surrounding the property at which the establishment will be operated for which licensure is being sought; the current zoning of the property at which the establishment will be operated for which licensure is being sought; the integrity of the applicant; the criminal convictions, if any, of the applicant for the violation of any criminal statutes; the number of times in the past three years licenses under this chapter have been issued for the establishment for which licensure is being sought; the violation(s), if any, of this chapter (or any similar predecessor ordinance or resolution of the county regarding alcoholic beverages) or the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code occurring at the establishment for which licensure is being sought during the past three years; whether the applicant (or the individual making the application on behalf of the applicant) is lawfully present in the United States; whether the applicant is registered to use and is using the Federal Work Authorization Program; the bona fides and arm's length nature of the acquisition of the establishment for which licensure is being sought by applicant from the existing or prior owner and/or licensee of such establishment; and, the accuracy and completeness of the application and the information, documents and statements submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto, for the license applied for.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-7, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-48. - Grant or denial of application.
(a)
Following receipt by the board of commissioners of an application for an alcoholic beverage license the board of commissioners shall either:
(1)
Grant such application and direct issuance of a license in connection therewith subject to compliance with the provisions of this chapter; or
(2)
Table action on such application until a date and time certain as determined by the commission. If such application is tabled by the board, the county administrator shall cause a written notice to be issued to the applicant advising him that:
a.
The commission has tabled action on his application until a date and time certain as determined by the commission;
b.
The applicant may, if he so desires, appear at the meeting at the date and time certain as determined by the commission to be heard as to why his application should be approved.
(b)
At such public meeting, as provided for above, the applicant shall have the opportunity to show cause why the application should be granted and should not be denied and shall be entitled to the opportunity to present evidence, to present witnesses, to cross examine witnesses presenting evidence against granting of the application, to be represented by an attorney, and to have the proceedings transcribed or recorded at the applicant's expense, all in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time by the board of commissioners relative thereto.
(c)
Following the conclusion of such public meeting the board of commissioners shall, within 30 days of the date of such public meeting, render its decision regarding the grant or denial of such application.
(d)
Upon the denial of such application, the county administrator shall cause the applicant to be notified in writing within ten days of such decision and the reasons therefore.
(e)
Upon the grant of such application the county administrator shall promptly notify the applicant thereof and the Coffee County Clerk shall promptly proceed to cause the license applied for to be issued.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-8, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-49. - License duration; license fee proration; when fee is due.
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall automatically expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance, but may be renewed on an annual basis for each subsequent calendar year by making application for renewal to the county and paying the annual license fee. There shall be no proration of the annual license fee paid for the renewal of a license.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-9, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-50. - Duties of licensee.
As a condition subsequent to the granting of a license pursuant to this chapter and the possession and use thereof, compliance with the following provisions shall be mandatory:
(1)
Licenses granted hereunder shall be prominently displayed in the licensee's establishment to which such license relates, and shall be, together with said establishment, subject to inspection at any time by the county or any law enforcement agency having jurisdiction of the location and activities of licensee's establishment.
(2)
The sale, distribution, and on premises consumption of alcoholic beverages, as the case may be, at said establishment shall each be in compliance with the laws of the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Act, as amended, O.C.G.A., Title 3, and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(3)
The licensed establishment and its operation shall at all times comply with all applicable county ordinances and resolutions (including without limitation this chapter), together with all applicable state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(4)
Upon issuance or renewal of any license during the term thereof the licensee shall utilize the Federal Work Authorization Program as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-60-6.
(5)
Licensee shall pay the annual license fee for renewal of such license for the immediately succeeding year before January 1 of such succeeding calendar year.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-9, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-51. - Revocation.
(a)
Failure of licensee to comply with any of the following provisions of this section 10-51(a) shall be grounds for revocation of the license granted to licensee under this chapter.
(1)
Conviction of licensee, or of any owner, officer or director of the licensee, of a felony.
(2)
Conviction within the last five years of licensee, or of any owner, officer or director of the licensee, of a misdemeanor or other violation involving any of the following: gambling, the Georgia Controlled Substance Act (or similar statutes of another jurisdiction), prostitution, sex offenses, adult entertainment laws, rules and regulations, alcohol control laws, rules or regulations, or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(3)
Failure of the licensee to be lawfully present in the United States.
(4)
Failure of the licensee or the licensed establishment to comply at all times with each of the requirements of section 10-50.
(5)
A material misstatement or omission in the licensee's application or in the information and statements submitted as a part thereof or supplementary thereto.
(b)
Upon information to the county concerning violation of any of the provisions outlined in section 10-51(a), the board shall serve notice upon licensee, by registered or certified mail addressed to licensee's establishment, requiring him to appear before the board and show cause why his license should not be revoked. Such hearing shall not be held sooner than 30 business days from the giving of such notice, and shall set forth with particularly the date, time and place of the hearing on said matter; such notice shall also state the alleged noncompliance which could, if sustained, result in revocation of licensee's license.
(c)
Within five business days of the hearing on such matter, the board shall render a decision on the matter, notifying licensee in writing of its decision by registered or certified mail addressed to the licensee's establishment or by personally delivering the same to licensee. In the event of a revocation, no rebate shall be made of any portion of any license fee paid.
(d)
After revocation of any license granted hereunder, no person formerly holding such license, shall operate an establishment for which a license is required by this chapter without again having obtained a valid license.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. IV, § 4-10, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-52—10-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MALT BEVERAGE AND WINE
DIVISION 1. - RETAIL SALE—OFF PREMISES CONSUMPTION (MALT BEVERAGES; WINE)

Sec. 10-71. - License required.
(a)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption off of the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales.
(b)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of wine for consumption off of the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. V, § 5-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-72. - Unbroken packages to be sold.
A license issued pursuant to this chapter for the retail sale of beer or wine for consumption off of the premises where sold shall authorize the licensee to sell such beer and wine only in the original and unbroken package or packages. Such license shall not permit the breaking of the package or packages on the premises where sold and shall not permit the consumption of the contents of the package or packages on the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. V, § 5-2, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-73—10-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RETAIL SALE—CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES (MALT BEVERAGES; WINE)

Sec. 10-76. - License required.
(a)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption on the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales. Such license shall only authorize and permit the retail sale of malt beverages for consumption only by the drink and only on the premises where sold.
(b)
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the County involving the retail sale of wine for consumption on the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales. Such license shall only authorize and permit the retail sale of wine for consumption only by the drink and only on the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. V, § 5-3, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-77—10-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DISTILLED SPIRITS
DIVISION 1. - RETAIL SALE—OFF PREMISES CONSUMPTION (DISTILLED SPIRITS)

Sec. 10-91. - License required.
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of distilled spirits for consumption off of the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter for such sales.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VI, § 6-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-92. - Unbroken packages to be sold.
A license issued pursuant to this chapter for the retail sale of distilled spirits for consumption off of the premises where sold shall authorize the licensee to sell such distilled spirits only in the original and unbroken package or packages. Such license shall not permit the breaking of the package or packages on the premises where sold and shall not permit the consumption of the contents of the package or packages on the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VI, § 6-2, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-93—10-95. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RETAIL SALE—CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES (DISTILLED SPIRITS)

Sec. 10-96. - License required.
No person shall operate an establishment within the unincorporated areas of the county involving the retail sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises where sold without having first obtained a license pursuant to this chapter. Such license shall only authorize and shall only permit the retail sale of distilled spirits by the drink and then only for the consumption thereof on the premises where sold.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VI, § 6-3, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-97—10-110. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - BROWNBAGGING

Sec. 10-111. - Brownbagging prohibited.
Brownbagging and allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in brownbagging is unlawful and prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VII, § 7-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-112. - Operation of a brownbagging establishment prohibited.
Operating or allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in the operation of a brownbagging establishment is unlawful and prohibited.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VII, § 7-2, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-113. - Private residences.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, brownbagging and allowing, facilitating, permitting, or participating in brownbagging shall not be unlawful or prohibited at private residences.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VII, § 7-3, 11-3-2014)
Secs. 10-114—10-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES; ESTABLISHMENT'S AREAS OF SALE

Sec. 10-131. - Hours of sale by retailers and retail consumption dealers.
(a)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken containers or packages for consumption off of the premises where sold, at an establishment otherwise licensed for such sales, is authorized from 6:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m., except on Sundays and Christmas Day.
(b)
The retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold, at an establishment otherwise licensed for such sales, is authorized from 10:00 a.m. until 11:30 p.m., except on Sundays and Christmas Day.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VIII, § 8-1, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-132. - Sales during elections.
Pursuant to the delegation of authority granted to the board of commissioners by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20(b)(2)(B), the wholesale or retail sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages pursuant to a license issued pursuant to this chapter and otherwise in compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election. However, no person shall sell alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days during such time as the polls are open.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VIII, § 8-2, 11-3-2014)
Sec. 10-133. - Establishment's areas of sale.
(a)
Retail consumption dealers licensed for on premises consumption of any alcoholic beverages shall not knowingly allow or permit patrons of the licensed establishment to remain inside the licensed establishment where such alcoholic beverages are sold during times that the licensed establishment is not authorized or permitted to operate the licensed activity or during times that the licensed establishment is not otherwise open for business.
(b)
Retail consumption dealers licensed for on premises consumption of any alcoholic beverages shall not knowingly allow or permit patrons of the licensed establishment or other persons to remain on the outside portions of the licensed establishment (including its parking lots(s) and other outdoor areas) where such alcoholic beverages are sold where such patron or other person is then currently possessing, selling, distributing, or consuming any alcoholic beverages.
(c)
Retail dealers shall only sell and distribute, and retail consumption dealers shall only sell, distribute, and permit consumption of, alcoholic beverages at the licensed establishment in public areas of the establishment generally open and available to all patrons of such establishment. Provided, however, that private events (as defined in this chapter) shall be permitted in entire buildings, rooms, halls or areas, indoors or out of doors, in each case generally available for private events at the establishment of a retail consumption dealer.
(Ord. No. 2014-4, Art. VIII, § 8-4, 11-3-2014)
APPENDIX A. FEES
1.
Alcoholic beverage license fees shall be as follows:
EXPAND
License Annual Fee
(a) Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Malt Beverages) $500.00
(b) Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Wine) $250.00
(c) Retail Dealer—Off Premises Consumption (Distilled Spirits) $2,000.00
(d) Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Malt Beverages) $1,500.00
(e) Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Wine) $1,000.00
(f) Retail Consumption Dealer—Consumption on Premises (Distilled Spirits) $2,500.00
