Chapter 22 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— General powers of counties as to taxation and licenses, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV; certain persons prohibited from investigating business for issuance of county license, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-9; business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES

Sec. 22-19. - Business license required.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the unincorporated areas of the county shall pay a regulatory fee and shall be issued a business license for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which license and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, thereby preventing conspicuous display of the same, such business registration shall be shown to the licensing official or representatives thereof, or to any law enforcement officer of the county upon request.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-1)
Sec. 22-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business. Wherever the term "business" is used herein, such term shall be construed to mean a business, trade, profession or occupation or practitioner thereof unless otherwise indicated. This business license shall apply only to businesses operating in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Business license means a license issued following a registration with and fee paid to the county prior to conducting or transacting business within the unincorporated areas of the county. For the purpose of this article, the term "business license" shall be a type of regulatory fees.
Clerk means the clerk of the board of commissioners of the county.
Licensing official means the county administrator or a designee of the chairman of the county board of commissioners.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes, among other things.
Person shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations.
Practitioner of profession or occupation is the one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation, but shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays a regulatory fee.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Regulatory fees do not include development impact fees as defined by paragraph 8 of O.C.G.C. § 36-71-2 or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-2)
Sec. 22-21. - Regulatory fee structure.
(a)
A regulatory fee may be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on applicable businesses, trades, professions, and occupations.
(b)
The regulatory fee schedule for persons in businesses, trades, professions, and occupations as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 or other provisions of state law shall be adopted by the county board of commissioners and shall be amended from time to time as determined by the county board of commissioners. The regulatory fee is set out as follows:
(1)
Each business required to comply with this article shall pay $50.00 per business location in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(2)
No business with multiple locations within the county will be required to pay a sum exceeding $200.00 for their business license, irrespective of the number of locations they own within the county.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-3)
Sec. 22-22. - Purpose and scope of fee.
(a)
This article is adopted pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-8 and 48-13-9 and is for regulatory purposes only. This article is not adopted as an occupational tax.
(b)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one regulatory fee for each of its locations.
(c)
No business license or regulatory fee shall be required for those businesses and practitioners of professions or occupations which the county is not authorized to subject to regulatory fees pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c).
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-4)
Sec. 22-23. - Paying regulatory fee of business with no location in the county.
A business license shall also be required on those businesses, trades and practitioners of professions or occupations which operate and conduct business within the county, even if said business, trade, profession or occupation does not have a location within the county.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-5)
Sec. 22-24. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
As part of the application process of obtaining a business license, each business operated within the unincorporated areas of the county shall register said business with the county. The business registration of each business operated within the unincorporated areas of the county shall identify the line of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the county and that line of business being noted by the county upon the business registration form which is to be displayed by the business owner.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-6)
Sec. 22-25. - Each fixed location or place considered separate business.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of this article.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-7)
Sec. 22-26. - Imposition of fee.
The regulatory fee imposed herein is for regulatory purposes only. The fee shall be paid before commencing a business, trade or the practice of a profession or occupation as a condition precedent for transacting business or practicing a profession.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-8)
Sec. 22-27. - When fee due and payable; effect of transacting business when fee delinquent.
(a)
Each such regulatory fee shall be for the current calendar year and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and fee shall be payable before commencing business and thereafter on January 1 of each year once the business has commenced and has received its initial license, and be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. In addition to said penalties, should any regulatory fee imposed by this article remain due and unpaid for 60 days from the due date of the fee, unless otherwise exempted by state law or local ordinance, the person liable for the fee shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the fee due. In addition, interest on the regulatory fees due and payable after the due date shall be at the rate of 1.5 percent per month.
(b)
The regulatory fee herein provided for shall be issued by the licensing official and if any person, firm, or corporation whose duty it is to obtain a business license shall, after said fee becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any trade or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration and license, such offender shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00. Payment of such fine may be enforced by the contempt powers of the court having competent jurisdiction. This remedy is in addition to any other remedies available for the collection of regulatory fees due to the county from persons subject to the fee who fail or refuse to pay the fee.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-9)
Sec. 22-28. - Exemption on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business license is imposed by this article shall be exempt from said license requirement on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless said business is registered as a nonprofit organization pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code. In such case, said business shall only be required to register with the county and the fee shall be waived.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-10)
Sec. 22-29. - Evidence of state registration required, displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the Secretary of State pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 (O.C.G.A. § 48-13-2 et seq.) shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-11)
Sec. 22-30. - Evidence of regulatory matter required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a county business license, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-12)
Sec. 22-31. - Due date for license and registration; failure to obtain.
Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the business license and registration herein provided for before commencing the same; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county, any business, trade, profession, or occupation required to be registered without first having so obtained said registration, shall be subject to penalties and fines provided for herein as well as otherwise permitted by law.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-13)
Sec. 22-32. - When registration and fee due and payable; effect of transacting business when fee delinquent.
(a)
Each such registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is hereby imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all fees as provided herein before January 31 of each year, and on January 31 each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession, or occupation without first having obtained said registration shall be subject to the penalties and fines provided for herein. The penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties herein provided or otherwise permitted by law.
(b)
The registration herein provided for shall be issued by the licensing official, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said fee becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be subject to the fines and penalties provided therefor.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-14)
Sec. 22-33. - Penalty for article violations.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-12, and may be subject to any and all additional remedies available by law for the collection of regulatory fees.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-15)
Sec. 22-34. - Businesses not covered by this article.
(a)
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article. The following businesses may be assessed a regulatory fee, registration fee, or other type of regulation pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law. Likewise, the following shall be required to comply with subsection (c) of this section by obtaining a certification of exemption:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under chapter 3 of O.C.G.A. title 46 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-3-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(b)
The following persons of businesses are exempted from the regulatory fee imposed by this article:
(1)
Nonprofit social, charitable, religious or fraternal organizations for the purpose of operating fairs, circuses or carnivals for periods of time not to exceed one week.
(2)
Individual farmers who raise, grow or cultivate edible food from the soil of the state; provided, however, that farm, milk or other farmer cooperatives are not exempted when they engage in selling goods and/or services to the public in competition with persons taxed by virtue of this article.
(3)
Established churches, religious, charitable and fraternal organizations chartered or operated for nonprofit purposes.
(4)
Persons or businesses involved in or renting lots for mobile homes, residential homes, or mobile home rentals. However, this class of persons should still be required to comply with subsection (c) of this section by obtaining a certificate of exemption.
(5)
Persons exempted from taxation by virtue of the constitution or any statute of the United States or state.
(c)
Exempted persons shall possess and display at their places of business a certificate of exemption that may be obtained from the licensing official by application of a form provided by the same. The applicant for exemption shall clearly state the provision of this article or other provision of law under which the applicant claims exemption. The certificate shall contain sufficient facts for the licensing official to determine whether the applicant is entitled to the exemption. The certificate of exemption shall remain valid and the business need not reapply for an annual certificate of exemption so long as the conditions entitling the business to the exemption remain the same. The application for the certificate of exemption shall be made under oath. The certificate of exemption shall not exempt any business from complying with the duty to register.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-16)
Sec. 22-35. - Amendment, repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time. Said amendment may increase or lower the fee rates, and amendments to the fee schedule shall be posted as provided in section 22-21.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-17)
Sec. 22-36. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the licensing official to see that the provisions of this article relating to business licenses are observed; and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court of competent jurisdiction, via citation. It is hereby made the further duty of the licensing official to inspect all registrations issued by the county, as often, as in his judgment, he may deem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-19)
Sec. 22-37. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the county board of commissioners.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-20)
Sec. 22-38. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-21)
Sec. 22-39. - Conditions of issuance.
The licensing official shall issue the certificate of license only:
(1)
When satisfied that the business, etc., does not, and will not violate the requirements of the zoning ordinance of the county;
(2)
Upon the fulfillment of the registration requirements of this article;
(3)
Upon the payment of the regulatory fee imposed by this article;
(4)
Upon payment of any outstanding solid waste fees due at the time an application for license is sought.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-22)
Sec. 22-40. - Term of license; transfer.
Licenses will be issued for a one-year period, except as otherwise herein specified. A license issued by the licensing official under the authority of this article, may be transferred or assigned, except as otherwise noted in this article, provided the owner conducts the business for which the license was issued at the same place, executes a new registration form and pays the county a transfer fee of $10.00. If the business is moved to a different location, with the same owner and operators, the license may also be transferred to the new location, by notifying the licensing official and payment of the transfer fee. In the event that the proper authorities are not notified, an additional ten percent fee shall be charged for the transfer.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-23)
Sec. 22-41. - Misrepresentation to obtain license or certificate deemed violation.
No person shall use any deceitful means or misrepresentation in obtaining the license or certificate to do business in the county from the county.
(Res. of 12-19-2005, § 1-24)
Secs. 22-42—22-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT TRADERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Power of county governing authority to regulate peddling and fix the cost of licensing peddlers, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22(a)(9); peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; exception from local peddler or itinerant vendor licensing requirements for persons selling agricultural products, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-6.

Sec. 22-71. - License required.
(a)
In accordance with the laws of the state, each and every peddler and itinerant trader who are nonresidents of the county, including street or roadside peddlers, by sample or otherwise, shall apply for a license to the judge of the probate court of each county where he may desire to trade, which license shall be granted to him on the following qualifications and oath:
(1)
Every peddler shall furnish the Judge of the Probate Court with evidence of his good character and shall take and subscribe before him this oath: "I swear that I will use this license in no county other than the one for which it is granted, that I will not suffer any person to use it in my name, and that I am a citizen of this State. So help me God."
(2)
Such oath and license shall be entered in the book kept for that purpose. The license shall contain a physical description of the peddler and/or itinerant trader.
(b)
There shall be a separate license for every vehicle used in vending such goods, wares or merchandise, which license shall be shown to any peace officer demanding it. On failure or refusal to exhibit the license, the peddler shall forfeit $500.00, to be recovered through an action of the informer. One-half of such sum shall go to the informer, the other to the educational fund of the county.
(c)
The judge of the probate court of the county is hereby authorized to impose the following license fees which shall be used for county purposes:
(1)
In dry goods, notions, furniture, medicine, jewelry, magazine salesman, meat dealers, each, per day: $200.00;
(2)
Peddlers not otherwise provided for, each, per day: $200.00;
(3)
In dry goods, notions, furniture, medicine, jewelry, magazine salesman, meat dealers, each, per year: $500.00;
(4)
Peddlers not otherwise provided for, each, per year: $500.00.
(d)
Any peddler or itinerant trader who sells any goods, wares, or merchandise, except such as are excepted by law, without a license from the proper authority shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided for by the laws of this state.
(Ord. of 3-16-1987)
