Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Counties a body corporate and politic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ I; county officers, election, term, compensation, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; county government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a); organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; county property generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-9-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— By agreements effective July 1, 1998, the board of commissioners and the cities of Ambrose, Nicholls, Broxton, and Douglas have implemented a service delivery strategy dispute resolution process for resolving land use disputes over annexation. Official copies of the agreement are on file in the office of the county clerk.

Sec. 2-19. - Meetings.
(a)
The board of commissioners shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Monday at 9:30 a.m., unless otherwise ordered by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Meetings shall be held in the board of commissioners' meeting room, Coffee County Courthouse, Douglas, Georgia.
(Code 2002, § 2-31)
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1; exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-20. - Parliamentary procedure.
The proceedings at the meetings of the board of commissioners shall be generally governed by Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, so far as applicable and not inconsistent with the special rules of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2002, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-21. - Agenda.
There shall be a written agenda prepared prior to each board of commissioners meeting. Persons who desire to address the board of commissioners at a meeting shall be required to notify the county clerk and indicate the subject they intend to address by noon on the Thursday preceding the next meeting. Each person who desires to address the board of commissioners shall be limited in his remarks to five minutes duration. The presiding officer retains discretion to recognize any person attending a meeting of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2002, § 2-33)
Secs. 2-22—2-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14); civil service system for county employees authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I and O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21; expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1; county manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1; Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; Georgia municipal employees benefit system, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-46. - Restricting the number of family members employed by county.
The number of persons from the immediate family of any person, or spouse of a person, who is already employed by any department of the county, shall be limited to one.
(Res. of 1-18-1982)
Sec. 2-47. - Establishment of civil service system; manual.
(a)
A civil service system as authorized and contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21 is established for the employees of the county. The system shall cover all employees of the county except:
(1)
Elected officials;
(2)
Persons temporarily employed in a professional or scientific capacity or appointed for a specified term;
(3)
Employees of any board, commission, or authority of the county; and
(4)
Such other employees as may be excluded from coverage under the merit system as provided by appropriate amendment to this section.
(b)
The civil service system shall be governed by a manual of personnel policies as adopted by the board of commissioners; and the policies shall be administered by the county administrator, as the chief executive officer of the county, with the cooperation of the participating boards, commissions and constitutional officers.
(c)
The manual of personnel policies is adopted for the covered employees of the county. The participating independent appointing authorities have admitted their cooperation and covered position by signature on the manual. The personnel policies are subject to amendment, as the need arises, by the board of commissioners with the participation of the participating boards and constitutional officers.
(Code 2002, § 2-71; Res. of 9-6-1994, §§ 1—3)
Editor's note— An official copy of the manual of personnel policies is on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-48. - Pension plan for county employees.
(a)
The county is desirous of providing an amended pension plan for its employees, by participating in the Association County Commissioners of Georgia (ACCG) Restated Pension Plan.
(b)
The ACCG provides pension plan services.
(c)
The board of commissioners has concluded it is in the best interest of the county in open session that the county executes an adoption agreement which will cover the county's participation in the master ACCG Pension Trust, effective January 1, 1995.
(Code 2002, § 2-72; Res. of 2-6-1995)
Editor's note— Official copies of the referenced pension plan are on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-49. - Exclusion of certain election officials from retirement plan.
(a)
Officials of the county entered into a plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for extending to its employees the insurance system established by title II of the Social Security Act.
(b)
The original agreement included the services of election officials and election workers.
(c)
It is at this time the desire of the board of commissioners to exclude the services performed by election officials or election workers for each calendar year prior to the year 2000 in which the remuneration paid for such services is less than $1,000.00, and for each year after 1999 in which the remuneration paid is less than the adjusted amount, as described below, beginning with services performed in the year this modification was mailed or delivered by other means to the commissioner. The $1,000.00 limit on the excludable amount of remuneration paid in a calendar year for the services specified in this modification will be subject to adjustment for calendar years after 1999 to reflect changes in wages in the economy without any further modification of the agreement, with respect to such services performed during such calendar years, in accordance with section 218(c)(8)(B) of the Social Security Act.
(d)
The contract approved and accepted by the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia is amended to exclude the services referred to in this section, effective January 1, 1996.
(Code 2002, § 2-73; Ord. of 3-18-1996)
Editor's note— Official copies of the referenced plan and agreement are on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-50. - Deferred compensation plan.
The board of commissioners adopts the National Association of Counties Deferred Compensation Program and establishes the County of Coffee Deferred Compensation Plan for the voluntary participation of all eligible county employees, elected officials and independent contractors.
(Code 2002, § 2-74; Res. of 7-20-1992)
Editor's note— An official copy of the deferred compensation plan is on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-51. - Workers' compensation coverage.
The board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, tax commissioner, and volunteer firemen of the county shall be covered under the Association County Commissioners of Georgia-Group Self-Insured Workers' Compensation Fund. While performing their elected duties the board of commissioners, sheriff, probate judge, clerk of court, tax commissioner, and volunteer firemen of the county shall be covered under the workers' compensation laws of the state as stated in O.C.G.A. § 34-9-1.
(Code 2002, § 2-75; Res. of 3-2-1998, § I)
Secs. 2-52—2-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR

Sec. 2-76. - Position created.
The position of county administrator is created and established.
(Code 2002, § 2-101; Res. of 4-6-1992)
Sec. 2-77. - Appointment; restrictions.
The county administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. No member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed county administrator or acting county administrator during the term of office for which he was elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
(Code 2002, § 2-102; Res. of 4-6-1992)
Sec. 2-78. - Qualifications.
(a)
The county administrator shall be chosen by the board of commissioners solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to his actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of his office as set forth in this division.
(b)
The minimum qualifications for the county administrator shall be a baccalaureate degree from a creditable college or university in a course of study related to the occupational field and experience sufficient to thoroughly understand the diverse objects and functions of the subunits in the division/department in order to direct and coordinate work within the division/department, usually, but not definitely, interpreted to require three to five years of related experience.
(Code 2002, § 2-103; Res. of 4-6-1992; Res. No. 2007-03, 5-11-2007)
Sec. 2-79. - Term; suspension and removal; public hearing.
(a)
The county administrator shall be appointed for a term of not less than one year. The board of commissioners may in their discretion enter into an employment contract with any prospective or current county administrator in order to secure his employment. The terms and duration of that contract shall be in the sole discretion of the board of commissioners but shall not exceed a period of four years. In the event that a county administrator has been an employee for a period of four years, no matter what the terms of the contract, it shall be incumbent on the board of commissioners to re-evaluate the term of any existing agreement and then re-negotiate and re-execute the terms of the contract if continued employment of the county administrator is desired by the board.
(b)
During an appointed term, the county administrator shall be subject to suspension or removal from office at any time by a majority vote of the board of commissioners. Upon receiving a notice of suspension or removal, the county administrator shall be given a written statement of the reasons for such action. He may within five days from receipt of the notice request a public hearing before the board of commissioners, and such request shall be filed with the board. Upon receipt of such request, a hearing shall be set not earlier than ten days, nor later than 15 days, from the date of such request. Pending such hearing, and until final action has been taken, the county administrator may be suspended from office and all of his duties performed by some other person designated by the board of commissioners to perform such duties. Following the appeal hearing, the action of the board of commissioners to suspend or remove the county administrator shall be by majority vote and shall be final.
(Code 2002, § 2-104; Res. of 4-6-1992; Res. No. 2007-03, 5-11-2007)
Sec. 2-80. - Compensation as fixed.
The county administrator shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by the board of commissioners, and there shall be no reduction of salary during his term of office. The county may provide the county administrator access to and participation in those benefits it deems in its sole discretion necessary to secure the employment of a qualified county administrator. The county administrator shall not otherwise be afforded be due process rights under the county's personnel policy and shall have only those rights provided by ordinance.
(Code 2002, § 2-105; Res. of 4-6-1992; Res. No. 2007-03, 5-11-2007)
Sec. 2-81. - Duties.
The county administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and head of the administrative branch of county government. He shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper administration of all affairs of the county, except as otherwise provided by law; and it shall be his duty to:
(1)
Appoint, and when in his discretion the welfare of the county requires it, suspend, discharge, transfer or remove all employees for whom the board is responsible, except the county attorney, the county auditor, and the chief of the county police, if any, who shall be appointed directly by the board;
(2)
See that all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the board and all laws of the state subject to enforcement by him or by officers or department heads subject to his direction and supervision are faithfully executed;
(3)
Exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which the board previously exercised, or that may be created, and to direct and supervise the administration of all county offices and specifically the construction, maintenance and operation of all county roads, bridges, drains, buildings and other public works, and the care and maintenance of all real and personal property owned by the county;
(4)
Attend all meetings of the board, with the right to take part in the discussions; but having no vote. The county administrator shall be entitled to notice of all special meetings;
(5)
Prepare and submit to the board the annual budget and capital program and to execute the budget and capital program adopted by the board, approving all disbursements and expenditures as budgeted and/or authorized by the board;
(6)
Examine regularly at periods fixed by the board the accounts, records and operations of every county board, commission, department, office and agency which received appropriations from the board:
a.
Make regular monthly reports to the board on county fiscal and other affairs;
b.
Keep the board fully advised on the financial conditions and future needs of the county; and
c.
Make such recommendations on county affairs as he deems necessary for the efficient operation of the county;
(7)
Submit to the board at the end of each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the county for the preceding year;
(8)
Confer and advise with all other elected or appointed officials of the county who are not under the immediate control of the board, but who receive financial report from the board;
(9)
Fix the salaries of all officers and employees of the county whom he has the right to appoint, subject, however, to the supervision, control, approval or disapproval by the board;
(10)
Devote his entire time to the affairs of his office; and
(11)
Perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board.
(Code 2002, § 2-106; Res. of 4-6-1992)
Sec. 2-82. - Designation as purchasing agent; limitations.
The county administrator shall be the chief purchasing agent for the county, and may delegate purchasing authority to department heads subject to limitations approved by the county board of commissioners.
(Code 2002, § 2-107; Res. of 4-6-1992; Res. No. 2007-03, 5-11-2007)
Sec. 2-83. - Political activity.
The county administrator shall not engage in or be concerned with any local partisan politics or any local political campaign.
(Res. of 4-6-1992; Res. No. 2007-03, 5-11-2007)
Secs. 2-84—2-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-110. - Policy statement.
(a)
It shall be the policy of the board of commissioners that its workplace shall be drug-free in compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (PL 100-690, title V, subtitle D). This publication provides details of this policy, a statement on dangers of drugs in the workplace, sources of information and assistance, and is the basis of a form each employee is required to sign assuring compliance.
(b)
It is the policy of the board of commissioners that no employee shall engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or the use of a controlled substance in the workplace of county government. Controlled substances are those described in schedules I through V, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-25—16-13-29.
(c)
The purpose of this division is to avoid the dangers of drugs in the workplace as described further in this division. Another purpose is to advise employees of available sources of counseling, rehabilitation and employee assistance.
(d)
Each employee is instructed that he shall notify the county administrator within five days of any criminal drug statute conviction for a violation in the workplace. Within 30 days, the county administrator must take action as appropriate.
(e)
Any employee violating the terms of this division is subject to disciplinary action as prescribed in the county personnel policy. Employees found to be abusing drugs, but not convicted of any drug statute violation, will be subject to progressive discipline and required to satisfactorily participate in a rehabilitation program approved for such purpose at the employee's expense.
(Code 2002, § 2-131)
Sec. 2-111. - Rationale.
(a)
Drug abuse has an effect on many things, including absenteeism, productivity, number of health and accident claims, morale of other workers, and employee turnover. The cost of drug abuse has been currently estimated at more than $10,000,000,000.00 per year. Problem drinking costs the country about $33,000,000,000.00 per year.
(b)
Beneath the statistics (lost time, money, and productivity) is a great deal of human suffering. People who abuse chemicals tend to be very erratic in their behavior toward others. They'll be warm and pleasant one moment, vicious and cruel the next. Their empathy becomes increasingly impaired the more preoccupied they become by their drug of choice. This is intensely painful to family members and particularly destructive to children in their formative years.
(c)
Problem drinkers and drug abusers also tend to lose interest in things they once loved and enjoyed. Self-hatred builds because, at some level, these people realize they are failing themselves and their families. They act contrary to their own moral beliefs, and this increases their pain.
(d)
Financial and legal troubles are common in families with alcohol and drug abusers. Abusers earn less money because of lost hours at work, and their overall earning power is adversely affected. What money is left is frequently spent unwisely, much of it going to buy drinks or drugs.
(Code 2002, § 2-132)
Sec. 2-112. - Drugs with potential for abuse.
(a)
Barbiturates (Nembutal, Seconal, Amytal, Tuinal, etc.), are central nervous system depressants that are highly addictive both mentally and physically; they have a high potential for causing overdose reactions and severe and dangerous withdrawal complications.
(b)
Minor tranquilizers (Librium, Valium, etc.), have an effect similar to barbiturates and alcohol but are less powerful in their effect and less likely to produce physical and psychological dependency, although psychological dependency is still very common among users.
(c)
Narcotics (opium, morphine, heroin) act upon the central nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system to reduce pain, induce sleep, and give a general calming effect. They are very physically and psychologically addicting; and because of the haphazard manner in which they are manufactured and sold, they frequently are used in excess.
(d)
Stimulants (amphetamines, cocaine) are drugs that affect the central nervous system, causing increased alertness and activity and bringing on a feeling of confidence and well-being. They cause psychological dependency, but their ability to cause actual physical dependency is not clear. They can have negative psychological effects when overused.
(e)
Hallucinogens (LSD, mescaline, psilocybine, PCP, etc.), act upon the central nervous system and produce changes in perception with accompanying excitement to the user. They are not likely to cause psychological or physical dependency. They are somewhat unreliable in their effect and may cause extreme anxiety reactions or panic states in some users.
(f)
Marijuana's active ingredient is THC, which is sometimes classified as an hallucinogen. The actual amount of this chemical in marijuana is quite low, however, and hallucinations are rare. It generally has an intoxicating effect and may heighten sensory perception, especially auditory perception. There are almost no observable physical effects due to marijuana use. It can produce a psychological dependence somewhat similar to caffeine and has no potential for physical dependence.
(g)
Volatile substances (gasoline, paint thinner, lighter fluid, airplane glues, etc.), act on the central nervous system and produce an intoxicating effect. They can be extremely dangerous, causing either brain damage or death from overdose.
(h)
Caffeine and nicotine can also be described as drugs. Their physical effects are well documented and they are both psychologically addicting. Nicotine can be physically addicting to some people. This viewpoint is such a radical departure from popular opinion, however, that it would probably be more distracting than helpful to include it in discussions of employee assistance programs.
(i)
If an employee has a drug problem, the county mental health in Douglas, Georgia, can help through personal counseling and family counseling. Assistance is available through the Waycross Community Mental Health Center in Waycross, Georgia, and other private treatment centers that may be available in the community.
(Code 2002, § 2-133)
Sec. 2-113. - Notification of policy.
All employees shall be notified in writing of the policy outlined in this article and as a condition of employment agree to abide by the drug-free workplace policy. Any violation of this division by an employee will result in disciplinary action as prescribed in the manual of personnel policies.
(Code 2002, § 2-134)
Secs. 2-114—2-139. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-140—2-162. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-62-1 et seq.; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-163. - Need declared.
It is determined and declared to be a need for a joint development authority to function in both Atkinson County and Coffee County.
(Code 2002, § 2-211; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-164. - Created.
There is created and activated in Atkinson County and Coffee County a public body corporate and politic known as the "Atkinson County-Coffee County Joint Development Authority" as provided in the development authority's law.
(Code 2002, § 2-212; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-165. - Board of directors.
The number of members of the joint development authority, which members will comprise the board of directors of the authority, shall be eight, four of whom shall be appointed by the Atkinson County Commission and four of whom shall be appointed by the Coffee County Commission.
(Code 2002, § 2-213; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-166. - Residency requirements.
The residency requirements of the members of the joint development authority shall be that each must be a resident of the county of the commission that appointed such members.
(Code 2002, § 2-214; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-167. - Terms of office.
(a)
The terms of office of the members of the joint development authority shall be four years.
(b)
If the number of members of the authority is ever increased as provided by law, the term of any such additional members shall be four years.
(c)
If at the end of any term of office of any member a successor has not been elected, such member whose term has expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is so elected.
(d)
Terms of office shall be deemed to have commenced as of January 1, 1994.
(Code 2002, § 2-215; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-168. - Powers, duties.
The members of the board of directors elected in this division representing Coffee County and those representing Atkinson County shall organize as a board of directors, and such board of directors shall carry out its duties and responsibilities and exercise its powers and prerogatives in accordance with the terms and provisions of the development authority's law.
(Code 2002, § 2-216; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Sec. 2-169. - Affect of actions.
The actions taken by the Coffee County Commission as specified in this division is not intended in any way to affect and shall not affect any public corporation, industrial development or payroll authority previously created by legislative act or constitutional amendment, including, without limitation, its existence, purpose, organization, powers or functions.
(Code 2002, § 2-217; Res. of 7-18-1994)
Secs. 2-170—2-191. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FINANCE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II; county finance generally and local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-192. - Fiscal year.
The county's fiscal year shall commence on January 1 and conclude on December 31.
Secs. 2-193—2-222. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - COUNTY PROPERTY

Sec. 2-223. - Affixing decals or identification markers on county vehicles; applicable exemptions.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-80-20, the following motor vehicles owned or leased by Coffee County shall not be marked with a decal or identification marker:
(1)
Any vehicle used for law enforcement purposes;
(2)
Any vehicle used for prosecution purposes;
(3)
Any vehicle under procured under lease purchase;
(4)
Any vehicle used for administrative purposes by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 6-18-2001)
