Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-05-1, §§ I—VI, adopted Sept. 4, 2012, amended Art. II in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. II, §§ 26-19—26-27, pertained to similar subject matter, and derived from Code 2002, §§ 26-31—26-36; Res. of 10-19-1981, §§ I—VI; Res. of 10-2-2000, § I; Res. No. 05-11, adopted Sept. 6, 2005; Res. No. 07-11, adopted Sept. 4, 2007; Ord. of 4-21-2008, §§ I—VI.

Sec. 26-19. - Definition.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services [public safety]; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; [nuclear power] plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § I, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-20. - Local organization for emergency management.
In cases where a county has an organization for emergency management, such organization shall include participation by each city within the county unless the governing authority of any particular city elects to implement its own organization for emergency management. Any two or more of the above-mentioned political subdivisions may, with the approval of the director, contract with each other so as to form one emergency management organization for the entire area included in the bounds of the contracting political subdivisions. The executive officer or governing body of the political subdivision is authorized to nominate a local director to the director of emergency management who shall have the authority to make the appointment. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. The local director shall:
• Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the political subdivision and the director or designee shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours
• Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters [and/or emergencies]
• Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers
• Coordinate emergency response of public and private agencies and organizations
• Attend training and meetings convened by the appointing authority or the (state emergency management) director
• Develop or cause to be developed, in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the state, mutual aid arrangements, consistent with state plans and programs, for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted
• Enter into mutual aid agreements, subject to approval of the governor, with emergency management agencies or organizations in other states for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § II, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-21. - Local emergency management powers.
Each political subdivision shall have the emergency management power and authority to: appropriate and expend funds; execute contracts; obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies; provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to victims; direct and coordinate development of local emergency management plans and programs in accordance with federal and state policies and plans; appoint, employ, remove or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers; establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts; and acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease or otherwise [identify] sites required for installation of temporary housing units and prepare or equip such sites.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § III, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-22. - Local emergency management financial assistance.
A county or municipality shall be entitled to receive [federal disaster] funds if the local emergency management organization has met all state and federal requirements to receive such funds. Qualifications include: legal establishment of an emergency management organization by local ordinance; a legally appointed local director who has been endorsed and appointed by the Georgia Emergency Management Director; an approved emergency and disaster plan with all applicable annexes [Emergency Support Functions]; and an approved fiscal year program and other necessary compliance documents.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § IV, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-23. - Immunity of state and political subdivisions.
Neither the state nor any political subdivision of the state, nor the agents or representatives of the state or any political subdivision thereof, shall be liable for personal injury or property damage sustained by any person appointed or acting as a volunteer emergency management worker or member of any agency engaged in emergency management activity.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § V, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-24. - Local emergency management agency plan.
The Coffee County Emergency Management Agency has developed, in partnership with local government and community agencies/organizations which have primary responsibility for emergency support functions, an approved emergency management plan. A copy of this plan and/or major revisions are being submitted to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency by the local emergency management agency director, in coordination with local government officials or legally appointed successors. It is understood that the Georgia Emergency Management Agency will review this plan for compliance with all federal and state requirements.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-1, § VI, 9-4-2012)
Secs. 26-25—26-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY COST REIMBURSEMENT

Sec. 26-58. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is:
(1)
To recognize that the number of vehicular accidents and structure fires for which emergency responses are required by the county fire department and the emergency management agency (EMA) increase each year.
(2)
To recognize that the cost of responding to vehicular accidents and structure fires also continues to increase each year.
(3)
To recognize that many such incidents are often caused by neglect for which liability insurance provides a source of recovery to pay the cost associated with responding to such incidents by the county fire department and EMA.
(4)
To recognize that many homeowner insurance policies provide coverage to pay for part or all of the cost associated with the emergency response/service described herein.
(5)
To authorize and establish a program whereby a cost reimbursement fee (hereinafter referred to as CRF) is assessed for the delivery of emergency fire and EMA services to motor vehicle accidents, and all structure fires in the county.
(6)
To implement a fair and equitable procedure by which to collect CRFs from responsible individuals, business, or insurance companies and to authorize the administration of the same.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § I, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-59. - Motor vehicle accident.
(a)
When the county fire department or the emergency management agency (EMA) responds to a motor vehicle accident, and the accident is the result of fault or neglect on the part of one or more parties, the county may assess a CRF to all at-fault parties to cover the costs associated with the emergency response to the accident.
(b)
The party that is at-fault shall be personally responsible for the CRF established herein. To the extent that there is liability insurance to cover the cost associated with said emergency response, the county is authorized to submit a claim against the at-fault party's insurance company. All claims asserted by the county against the at-fault party which is not resolved by that party or their insurance company may, at the county's discretion, be prosecuted civilly in any court with appropriate jurisdiction. Any such civil suit shall be prosecuted by the county attorney or any other attorney designated by the county.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § II, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-60. - Structure fires.
(a)
When the county fire department or EMA is called upon to respond to a structure fire, and the fire is the result of fault or neglect on the part of any individual, the county may assess a CRF to all at-fault parties to cover the costs associated with the emergency response to the fire.
(b)
The party that is at-fault shall be personally responsible for the CRF established herein. To the extent that there is liability insurance to cover the cost associated with said emergency response, the county is authorized to submit a claim against the at-fault party's insurance company. All claims asserted by the county against the at-fault party which are not resolved by the individual or their insurance company may, at the county's discretion, be prosecuted civilly in any court with appropriate jurisdiction. Any such civil suit shall be prosecuted by the county attorney or any other attorney designated by the county.
(c)
When a structure is consumed completely or in part by fire and the structure is also covered by a policy of insurance which provides for the payment of the costs of emergency services envisioned by this article, the county may charge the owner a CRF as described herein, and/or may also submit a claim for payment for emergency services directly to the owner's insurance company.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § III, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-61. - Oil, chemical and hazardous waste cleanup.
(a)
When the county fire department or EMA is called upon to respond to a motor vehicle accident or a structure fire, and the accident or fire is the result of fault or neglect on the part of any individual, the county may assess a CRF to all at-fault parties to cover the costs associated with the emergency response to the incident, including all costs associated with oil, chemical, and hazardous waste cleanup (hereinafter referred to as cleanup).
(b)
The party that is at-fault shall be personally responsible for the CRF established herein. To the extent that there is liability insurance to cover the cost associated with said emergency response, or cleanup, the county is authorized to submit a claim against the at-fault party insurance company. All claims asserted by the county against the at-fault party which are not resolved by the individual or their insurance company, may, at the county's discretion, be prosecuted civilly in any court with appropriate jurisdiction. Any such civil suit shall be prosecuted by the county attorney or any other attorney designated by the county.
(c)
In the case of oil, chemical, and hazardous waste spills, the county may hold any individual or business responsible for the cleanup cost of the same irrespective of whether the individual or business is at fault or not. The fact that the spill and cleanup are necessitated by the incident itself, and the county incurs a cost associated with the clean up of the spill, is itself sufficient to warrant the assessment of a CRF as envisioned herein.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § IV, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-62. - Administration and investigations.
(a)
It shall be the responsibility of the county administrator, with the assistance of the fire chief or EM director, to develop the administrative procedures necessary to carry out the intent and requirements of this article.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the county fire chief or EMA director, or any of their designees, to investigate said accident and determine if a CRF may be assessed. These officials may rely on the official investigation performed by any other governmental body charged with the responsibility of investigating the incident.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § V, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-63. - CRF calculation.
The CRF described herein shall be based on the cost associated with responding to the emergency at issue. The affected agency shall consider the cost of personnel, supplies, equipment, fuel, and any other cost associated with the emergency response. The costs shall be assessed based on a reasonable calculation of the actual cost incurred to respond to the emergency.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § VI, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-64. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Cleanup means those steps or actions required to remove a spill from the county right-of-way, county property, or private property when necessity and safety require county services to be performed.
Emergency means for purposes of this article, any event which results in the dispatch of any emergency agency covered by this article.
Official investigation means any investigation of the incident performed by any governmental body or agency including but not limited to any: sheriff department, police department, fire department, state fire marshal, state bureau of investigation, Federal Bureau Investigation, federal EPA, state EPA/EPD, or any other local, state or federal agency charged with the investigation of the incident at issue.
Spill means any discharge or release of oil, chemical or hazardous waste of any kind in any way from its normal and accepted containment.
(Ord. No. 2007-10, § VII, 8-20-2007)
Sec. 26-65. - 9-1-1 charge for VoIP connections.
A 9-1-1 charge shall be imposed upon each Voice Over Internet Protocol telecommunications connection subscribed to by subscribers whose billing address is within the jurisdiction of the county at the rate of $1.50 per month per VoIP connection provided to each telephone subscriber.
(Res. No. 09-03, 8-17-2009)
Secs. 26-66—26-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - STATE OF EMERGENCY REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 26-76—26-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-05-2, §§ 1—4, adopted Sept. 4, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as §§ 26-101—26-104.

Sec. 26-101. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority or its designee; may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of Coffee County.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-2, § 1, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-102. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Curfew. A "curfew" is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this division from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, "exempt individuals" include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to Coffee County Ordinance No. 2012-05-4 ("Ordinance to Require Registration and Licensing of Building and Repair Services During a State of Emergency"), performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-2, § 2, 9-4-2012)
Cross reference— Registration of building and repair services, § 26-151 et seq.
Sec. 26-103. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated Coffee County during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-2, § 3, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-104. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-2, § 4, 9-4-2012)
Secs. 26-105—26-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS, MATERIALS, SERVICES AND HOUSING[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-05-3, §§ 1—3, adopted Sept. 4, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as §§ 26-121—26-123.

Sec. 26-121. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which Coffee County has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in Coffee County to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-3, § 1, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-122. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Overcharging. The term "overcharging" is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing.
The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of Coffee County.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-3, § 2, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-123. - Penalties.
Violation of the provisions of this division upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-3, § 3, 9-4-2012)
Secs. 26-124—26-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-05-4, §§ 1—8, adopted Sept. 4, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as §§ 26-151—26-158.

Sec. 26-151. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of Coffee County, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this division.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 1, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-152. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Building contractor. As used in this division the word or term "building contractor" shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this division if: (a) he has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or (b) he performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 2, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-153. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of Coffee County during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 3, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-154. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this division at $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 4, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-155. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this division. Violation of this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and/or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 5, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-156. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 6, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-157. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 7, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-158. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-4, § 8, 9-4-2012)
Secs. 26-159—26-175. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - SUSPENSION OF PORTIONS OF CODE AND OTHER FORMALITIES[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-05-5, §§ 1, 2, adopted Sept. 4, 2012, added provisions that were not specifically amendatory. At the editor's discretion, said provisions were included as §§ 26-176, 26-177.

Sec. 26-176. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting Georgia or the United States, the affairs and business of Coffee County may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of Coffee County, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within Coffee County. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of Coffee County, or any portion thereof, where: (a) the emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required; (b) such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and (c) such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the Coffee County Health Department and Coffee County Building and Inspections Department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-5, § 1, 9-4-2012)
Sec. 26-177. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Fees. Any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. "Fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The period of time that the disaster emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster emergency. The "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of Coffee County.
Temporary dwelling. Any mobile or easily movable home, trailer recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations a particular zoning district.
(Ord. No. 2012-05-5, § 2, 9-4-2012)
