ARTICLE II. - COUNTY OFFICERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 33), p. 2087, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Salary basis.
The present mode of compensating the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, the ordinary [probate court judge] and the tax commissioner of Coffee County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, annual salaries for such officers are prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - Clerk of superior court.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-88 et seq.; 15-1-10; 15-6-86; 36-9-5.]
Sec. 3. - Sheriff.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. § 15-16-20 et seq.]
Sec. 4. - Ordinary [Probate Court Judge].
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. §§ 15-9-63; 15-9-67.]
Sec. 5. - Tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner shall receive an annual salary as provided in O.C.G.A. Section 48-5-183 [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183], payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of Coffee County.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 989) § 4, p. 2508; 2005 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 249) § 1, p. 3836)
Sec. 6. - Fees.
After the effective date of this Act, said officers shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in their respective offices, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, each of said officers shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 7. - Tax commissioner salary in lieu of fees.
The salary provided for the tax commissioner herein shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments, and perquisites of whatever kind, notwithstanding the fact that such services for which the commissions are derived may have been performed in the capacity of an agent for the Georgia Department of Revenue and the tax commissioner shall have the duty to act as said agent for the Georgia Department of Revenue.
(2005 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 249) § 2, p. 3836)
Editor's note— O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183 now regulates the minimum salaries of tax collectors and tax commissioners.
Sec. 8. - Deputies.
The above-named officers shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as they shall each deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of their respective offices. Each of said officials shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by his office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of each of said officers, during his respective term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 989) § 5, p. 2508)
Sec. 9. - Sheriff; fiscal year; budget.
[1]
The fiscal year of the sheriff of Coffee County shall commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year. At such time as is designated for preparation of county budgets, but in any event no later than October 1 of each year, the sheriff shall certify to the governing authority of Coffee County a proposed budget of expenditures for the carrying out of the powers, duties and operations of his office for the ensuing fiscal year. The sheriff shall submit with the proposed budget his sworn certificate, stating that the proposed expenditures are reasonable and necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the office for the ensuing year. Each proposed budget shall show the estimated amounts of all proposed expenditures for operating and equipping the sheriff's office and jail other than construction, repair or capital improvement of county buildings during said fiscal year. The expenditures shall be itemized as follows:
(a)
Expenses, other than salaries.
(b)
Equipment.
(c)
Investigations.
(d)
Such other items as may be required by the governing authority.
[2]
The sheriff shall furnish to the governing authority of Coffee County all relevant and pertinent information concerning expenditures made in previous years and to the proposed expenditures which said governing authority of the county shall deem necessary, except that the governing authority of the county may not require confidential information concerning details of investigations. The governing authority of the county may require the sheriff to correct mathematical, mechanical, factual and clerical errors, and errors as to form in the proposed budget. Not later than December 1 of each year, the governing authority of Coffee County may amend, modify, increase or reduce any or all items of expenditure in the proposed budget and, said budget as fixed by said governing authority shall be the budget for said officer for the ensuing fiscal year and all expenses connected with the sheriff's office shall be paid from county funds in accordance with said budgetary provisions. All purchases required by the sheriff's office shall be made in accordance with procedure prescribed for other purchases made by the county.
[3]
If in the judgment of the sheriff an emergency should arise by reason of which the sheriff would be unable to perform his duties without the expenditure of larger amounts than are provided in the current budget, he may apply to the governing authority of Coffee County for appropriation of additional amounts. The governing authority shall then act upon the request for additional funds within fifteen days from the submission of the request by making available to the sheriff such sums of money as will be needed to meet said emergency as shall be determined by the governing authority, or by refusing to make any such funds available.
[4]
For those fiscal years immediately following that year in which sheriffs are elected, it shall be the duty and responsibility of the sheriff-elect to submit the proposed budget as provided for hereinabove not later than December 1 after his election. It shall be the duty of the incumbent sheriff to make available to the sheriff-elect such information as may be in his possession and required of the sheriff-elect by the governing authority of Coffee County, and in this respect, the sheriff shall cooperate fully in the preparation of the sheriff-elect's budget.
[5]
The governing authority of Coffee County shall not act arbitrarily or capriciously in regards to the budget proposed by the sheriff or sheriff-elect, or his request for additional funds, but shall act in good faith and for the best interests of the county in all respects thereto.
Sec. 10. - Clerk of superior court.
The clerk of the Superior Court of Coffee County, or the clerk-elect of the Superior Court of Coffee County whenever applicable, shall be required to submit an annual budget at the same time and in the same manner as the sheriff of Coffee County, except that those provisions of section 9 which peculiarly related to the sheriff shall not apply to the clerk or clerk-elect of the Superior Court of Coffee County.
Sec. 11. - Ordinary [Probate Court Judge]; budget.
The ordinary [probate court judge] of Coffee County, or the ordinary-elect of Coffee County whenever applicable, shall be required to submit an annual budget at the same time and in the same manner as the sheriff of Coffee County except that those provisions of section 9 which are peculiarly related to the sheriff shall not apply to the ordinary or ordinary-elect of Coffee County.
Sec. 12. - Tax commissioner; budget.
The tax commissioner of Coffee County, or the tax commissioner-elect of Coffee County whenever applicable, shall be required to submit an annual budget at the same time and in the same manner as the sheriff of Coffee County except that those provisions of section 9 which are peculiarly related to the sheriff shall not apply to the tax commissioner or tax commissioner-elect of Coffee County.
Sec. 13. - Operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of each of said offices, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of each office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements for each office shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Coffee County.
Sec. 13A. - Salaries; cost of living adjustments.
The officers and personnel provided for in this Act shall continue to receive the compensation they were receiving on January 1, 1977, until such time as said compensation shall be changed by the Board of Commissioners of Coffee County.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 989) § 6, p. 2508; 1977 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 494) § 1, p. 3699)
Sec. 14. - Bonds.
The official bonds of each of said officers, and the respective deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel, as may be required by law, shall be procured by each elected officer, and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of any county funds available for that purpose.
Sec. 15. - Effective date.
The provisions of this Act shall become effective on March 1, 1965.
Sec. 16. - Repealing clause.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved February 26, 1965.
