ARTICLE IV. - COUNTY MARSHAL[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2006 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 714), p. 4019, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Position created.
Pursuant to subsection (c.1) of Code section 15-10-100 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 15-10-100], the governing authority of Coffee County is authorized to employ marshals to perform the duties of constables. Such marshals shall be employed at such time as a majority of the judges of the Superior Court of Coffee County certifies that there exists a need for such marshals. The number of marshals to be appointed shall be specified by such judges in such certification.
Sec. 2. - Certification.
After certifying the need for marshals under Section 1 of this Act, the judges of the Superior Court of Coffee County by majority vote shall appoint such marshals who shall serve at the pleasure of such judges. The compensation of such marshals shall be set by the governing authority of Coffee County.
Sec. 3. - Authority, powers, and duties.
Marshals appointed in accordance with this Act shall have the same authority, powers, and duties as constables as described under Article 6 of Chapter 10 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 15-10-100] and shall be authorized to exercise the same powers otherwise exercisable by sheriffs of this State.
Sec. 4. - Termination of position.
When the need for such marshals no longer exists, the judges of the Superior Court of Coffee County shall certify that such need no longer exists and the positions of such marshals shall terminate as of the date of such certification.
Sec. 5. - Repealing clause.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
