TITLE 1. - ADMINISTRATION
Chapter 100. - General Provisions

Sec. 100-10. - Title.
This Ordinance shall be known as "The Unified Development Ordinance ("UDO") of the City of Hiram, Georgia." It consists of five Titles: Title 1: Administration; Title 2: Zoning; Title 3: Development, Title 4: Signs and Title 5: Telecommunications.
Title 1 is intended to implement regulations generally applicable to the City of Hiram, and also to specifically address administrative regulations, including definitions, enforcement and penalties applicable to Titles 2, 3, 4 and 5. Title 2 will serve as the City of Hiram's Zoning Ordinance, and is intended to constitute a Zoning Ordinance within the meaning of Georgia Law. Changes to the text of Title 2 including Title 1 as it relates to Title 2, as well as Official Zoning Map amendments and other zoning actions addressed therein, shall comply with the public notice and hearing procedures provided therein and state law. Title 3 is intended to regulate development and permitting activities in the City of Hiram. Title 4 is intended to regulate signage in the City of Hiram. Title 5 is intended to regulate telecommunications in the City of Hiram. Neither Title 1, Title 3, Title 4 nor Title 5 is intended to constitute a zoning ordinance or zoning regulations.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-20. - Purpose.
The Unified Development Ordinance is enacted by the Hiram City Council in order to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants and residents of the City of Hiram, Georgia. It is intended to achieve the following purposes:
100-20.01
To guide and regulate the orderly growth, development, redevelopment, and preservation of The City of Hiram in accordance with the adopted Paulding County Comprehensive Land Use Plan and with long-term objectives, principles, and standards deemed beneficial to the interest and welfare of the people,
100-20.02
To protect the established character and the social and economic well-being of both private and public property by establishing business growth-oriented e-commerce land uses and updated service delivery strategies to meet the needs and desires of the incorporated city limits of the City of Hiram, Georgia,
100-20.03
To promote, in the public interest, the efficient utilization of land,
100-20.04
To promote the preservation of open space,
100-20.05
To provide for adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from fire, flood, and other dangers,
100-20.06
To reduce or minimize congestion in the public streets,
100-20.07
To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community with a view to fostering a balanced tax base of business and residential interests,
100-20.08
To encourage an aesthetically attractive environment, both built and natural, and to provide for regulations that protect and enhance these aesthetic considerations,
100-20.09
To provide a basis for establishing the future need for law enforcement and fire protection, transportation, water, sewage, flood protection, schools, parks, recreational facilities, and other public facilities and services,
100-20.10
To promote safety and reduce congestion in travel and transportation, to protect against overcrowding of land, undue density of population in relation to the community facilities existing or available, obstruction of light and air, and loss of life or health from fire, flood, wind, subsidence or other dangerous conditions that could be mitigated by proper construction standards,
100-20.11
To encourage economic development that provides desirable employment and expands the tax base,
100-20.12
To ensure the perpetual conservation, preservation and enjoyment of the unique natural and physical resources of the City, including forested areas, watersheds, streams, viewsheds, and archaeological sites and the protection of water quality as the City grows,
100-20.13
To achieve compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations,
100-20.14
To provide for and promote housing for all income groups and all citizens within the City,
100-20.15
To establish high quality standards for buildings, land development, and subdivision regulations for the protection of the environment and the security of buyers and users of developed property in The City of Hiram,
100-20.16
To provide adequate and safe construction standards for streets, sidewalks, drainage, utilities and other public improvements,
100-20.17
To provide a method of administration and procedure that ensures due process and equal protection for the citizens and property owners of The City of Hiram,
100-20.18
To establish a just balance between the rights of owners of property and the public interest of all the citizens of The City of Hiram,
100-20.19
To provide for protection of the constitutional rights and obligations of all citizens within the City,
100-20.20
To provide penalties for a violation and remedies for enforcement hereof; and for other purposes.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-30. - Jurisdiction.
This Ordinance shall apply to all incorporated areas of The City of Hiram, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-40. - Application of Ordinance.
The provisions of this Unified Development Ordinance shall apply throughout the incorporated area of the City. The City may enter into agreements with cities within the City, or other municipalities, to carry out the purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance. These agreements may include, but are not limited to, enforcement of provisions, resolution of disputes, and cooperative monitoring and management of the separate storm sewer system and management programs. Except as hereinafter provided, as of the date of adoption of the Unified Development Ordinance the following shall apply:
100-40.01
Development Activity. Any person proposing to rezone property, secure permits, undertake any land disturbance activity, construct, demolish, expand or modify a structure or a building for occupancy, develop or subdivide land within incorporated areas of The City of Hiram, Georgia, or undertake any other development permission or activity shall pay a fee, unless waived, and make application to the appropriate City of Hiram, or Paulding County department and shall comply with all regulations set forth in this UDO.
100-40.02
Use. Unless legally obtained vested rights or allowance pursuant to Court order, no building, structure, premises or land shall be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be erected, remodeled, extended, enlarged, constructed, or altered in a manner except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is or is to be located.
100-40.03
Lots. Unless properly varied as provided for herein, no lot shall be reduced in size so that minimum lot width or depth, size of yards, lot area per family or any other requirement of this ordinance is not maintained. This limitation shall not apply when a portion of a lot has been lawfully acquired for public purpose or for unbuildable lots used exclusively for subdivision identification signage or subdivision entrance landscape features or stormwater facilities.
100-40.04
Pending Application for Building Permits and Land Disturbance Permits. Nothing in this UDO shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building or structure or land disturbance for which development or building permits were lawfully applied for or approved, prior to the effective date of this UDO or amendment thereto, provided:
A.
Such permit has not by its own terms expired prior to such effective date.
B.
Actual building construction is commenced and completed prior to the expiration of such permit or pursuant to a valid extension as provided for herein.
C.
Actual building construction is carried on pursuant to said permit and limited to and in strict accordance with said permit unless otherwise properly varied hereunder.
D.
No renewals or extensions of building permits shall be authorized accept in accordance with Paulding County Code Section 18-70(a).
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-50. - Relationship to Existing Ordinances and Plans.
100-50.01
Whenever the provisions of this UDO impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other statute, ordinance or resolution, these standards shall prevail, unless otherwise specified in this UDO or otherwise restricted or preempted by State or Federal law. Whenever the provisions of any other statute, ordinance, or resolution impose more restrictive standards than are required herein, the requirements of such regulations shall prevail, unless otherwise specified in this UDO.
100-50.02
In those instances where development standards for a parcel of land or a specific project have been lawfully established as a condition of approval for a rezoning, variance, permit, or other formal action by the Hiram City Council, the Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other authorized body, the requirements of such conditions shall control.
100-50.03
Nothing herein shall repeal the conditions of use, operation, or site development accompanying zoning approval(s) or special use(s), variances or permits issued under previous ordinances or resolutions. Modification or repeal of such past conditions of approval may be accomplished as authorized and provided by this UDO. All Special Use Permits, variances, exceptions, modifications and waivers heretofore granted by the Hiram City Council, shall remain in full force and effect, and all terms, conditions and obligations heretofore imposed by the Hiram City Council, shall remain in effect.
100-50.04
The Paulding County Comprehensive Plan is the official development policy and implementation guide for the City to coordinate and direct physical and economic development, related public investment, and to provide reasonable regulations for the development of private property in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. This UDO is designed to implement all provisions of that Plan for the development and use of land.
100-50.05
Documents Adopted by Reference.
A.
Paulding Future Development Map. The Paulding Future Development Map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDO.
B.
The City of Hiram Official Zoning Map. The City of Hiram Official Zoning Map, together with all adopted zonings and variance actions and explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this UDO.
C.
Building and Construction Codes. All building and construction codes are listed City Code Section 10-3.
D.
Abatement of Unsafe Structures. All requirements for Abatement of Unsafe Structures are listed in City Code 22-118, et seq.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-60. - Effective Date.
100-60.01
The UDO shall take effect and shall be in force upon its adoption by the Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
100-60.02
Unless legally obtained vested rights or allowance pursuant to Court order any subdivision or other activity for which a valid and complete application for a Development Permit has been received prior to the adoption of this UDO may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though this UDO had not been adopted, provided that the Development Permit is or can be issued within 90 calendar days of the date of adoption and all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
100-60.03
Any subdivision or other activity for which a Development Permit has been issued prior to the adoption of this UDO may, at the developer's option, proceed to completion and building permits may be issued as though this UDO had not been adopted, provided all time frames associated with said permit are observed.
100-60.04
Unless vested rights shall have been lawfully established, any subdivision or other activity for which a Grading Only Permit shall have been issued prior to adoption of this UDO shall be brought into conformance with this UDO. Subsequently the Grading Only Permit must conform to this UDO.
100-60.05
The adoption of this UDO shall not be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of this UDO.
100-60.06
Pending Application for Building Permits. Except as may be required by Federal or State law, nothing in this UDO shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building or structure for which building permits were lawfully applied for or approved, prior to the effective date of this UDO or amendment thereto, provided:
A.
Such permit has not by its own terms expired prior to such effective date.
B.
Actual building construction is commenced prior to the expiration of such permit.
C.
Actual building construction is carried on pursuant to said permit and limited to and in strict accordance with said permit.
D.
No renewals or extensions of said permit shall be authorized beyond the time period authorized in the Paulding County Code, Section 18-70(a) following the effective date of this UDO.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-70. - Amendments.
100-70.01
This UDO may be amended from time-to-time by ordinance of the Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia. Such amendments shall be effective as of their date of adoption unless otherwise stated in the adopting ordinance.
100-70.02
No amendment to this UDO shall be construed to affect the validity of any building permit lawfully issued prior to the adoption of said amendment.
100-70.03
Any amendment adopted shall automatically be added to Appendix 3.0 "List of Amendments".
100-70.04
The City Council may adopt a resolution impose a moratorium as to any or all of these ordinances which shall be effective for no more than six months in order to review and revise, as necessary, the provisions set forth herein.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-80. - Duties of the Community Development Department.
100-80.01
Unless otherwise specified in any article, chapter, or section of this UDO, the UDO shall be administered, interpreted, and enforced by the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia, or their designee.
100-80.02
All other ordinances or regulations referenced herein, such as the Fire Prevention and Life Safety Codes, Property Maintenance Ordinance, Building Technical Codes, health, transportation, water and sewer regulations, shall be administered by the directors or designees of the departments responsible for such regulations, as established by the City Council.
100-80.03
The City Manager, or their designee, shall have the authority to carry out all duties necessary to administer the UDO, including all duties otherwise delegated to the Divisions of the City Government. In addition, the City Manager, or their designee shall have the following authority:
A.
Prepare and maintain records of amendments to the UDO, and make the most recently adopted version available to the public within a reasonable length of time.
B.
To approve and accept final subdivision plat revisions on behalf of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
C.
In response to a written request by the property owner or owner's authorized agent, to approve or deny requests for administrative variances as provided in Section 290-80 of the UDO.
100-80.04
In particular, the Divisions of the Department of Planning and Development, in coordination with the City of Hiram City Manager, shall have the following powers and duties under the UDO.
A.
The Planning and Zoning Division and its Manager shall perform the following duties:
1.
Maintain current land use maps and files of all amendments to the Paulding County 2017 Comprehensive Plan, Future Development Map and related maps and policies.
2.
Prepare, compile, and recommend land use and other resource and facility plans to the City Council.
3.
Prepare recommendations on all zoning amendments for consideration by the City Council, and generally provide for the application, noticing and hearing requirements of the amendment process.
4.
Prepare recommendations on all requests for variances from the provisions of Title 2, 4 and 5 of the UDO, and generally provide for the application, noticing and hearing requirements of the zoning variances process.
5.
Prepare and maintain the City of Hiram Official Zoning Map, maintain accurate records of zoning map amendments, and make the most recently adopted version available to the public within a reasonable length of time.
6.
Prepare and maintain data, maps or other information regarding population, employment and economic characteristics of the City and land development activities, economic development, including subdivisions and building permits.
7.
In response to a written request by the property owner or owner's authorized agent, issue a statement identifying the current zoning of a parcel of land. The fee for such a zoning certification shall be established by the City Council.
8.
The Planning and Zoning Division Manager or his or her designee shall serve as secretary to the Paulding County Planning Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals, shall take and prepare its minutes and shall forward the minutes to the City of Hiram.
B.
The Development Division and its Manager shall perform the following duties:
1.
Provide for the orderly and safe development of land in the City through the provisions of the City regulations and other application regulations or standards as may be adopted by the City Council.
2.
To coordinate with other applicable departments on the review and final decisions regarding land disturbance permits and other development requests authorized in this UDO adopted by the City of Hiram.
3.
Enforce the regulations and standards of this UDO.
4.
Review plans and enforce development compliance with the Georgia Metropolitan River Protection Act, as amended.
C.
The Building and Permit Division and its Manager shall perform the following duties:
1.
Provide for the orderly and safe development of buildings in the City through the provisions of the City regulations and other application regulations or standards as may be adopted by the City Council.
2.
To coordinate with other applicable departments on the review and final decisions regarding building permits authorized in the Technical Codes adopted City of Hiram Code Section 10-3.
3.
Enforce the regulations and standards of this UDO.
4.
Enforce the Technical Codes adopted by the City of Hiram adopted by City of Hiram Code Section 10-3.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 100-90. - Fees.
100-90.01
Application filing, permit, inspection, and other fees shall be as may be established from time-to-time by the City Council.
100-90.02
Application fees, if any, shall be submitted with the application. Failure to pay a required application fee shall cause the application to be returned to the applicant without acceptance for review or consideration by the City.
100-90.03
Permit and inspection fees, if any, shall be submitted as a prerequisite to issuance of the permit. Nonpayment as a result of submission of refused credit card online or by a check having insufficient funds on account, or for any other reason, shall cause the permit to be voided and re-issuance subject to penalty as provided by law or as may be established by the City Council.
100-90.04
The City may charge a re-inspection fee separate and apart from the other fees collected for permits and inspections for those properties which fail an inspection of the Building Technical Codes at the fault of the builder. Said schedule of fees for re-inspections as established from time-to-time by the City Council.
100-90.05
Following the approval of development plans, and prior to authorization to begin construction, the developer shall provide the Community Development Department such fees as may be established from time-to-time by the City of Hiram.
100-90.06
Prior to approval of a Final Plat or Certificate of Occupancy, the developer shall provide to the Community Development Department such recording fees and proof of tender of performance and/or maintenance bonds as shall be required by this UDO or established from time-to-time by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Chapter 110. - Definitions

Sec. 110-10. - Rules of Interpretation.
For the purpose of the UDO, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
110-10.01
Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
110-10.02
The word "shall" is always mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
110-10.03
Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular.
110-10.04
Words in the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
110-10.05
The word "person" includes the words "individuals," "firms," "partnerships," "corporations," "associations," "governmental bodies" and all other legal entities.
110-10.06
The word "lot" shall be construed to include "parcel."
110-10.07
The word "erected" includes the words "constructed", "moved", "located" or "relocated."
110-10.08
The word "zoning map" means the Official Zoning Map of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
110-10.09
The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
110-10.10
Use of the word "and" is inclusive and requires that all of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency.
110-10.11
Use of the word "or" is not exclusive (as in "either ... or"), and requires that at least one of the component phrases so connected must be present or fulfilled for sufficiency. The word "or" may allow more than one component phrase to be present or fulfilled, as is implied by the common term "and/or."
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 110-20. - Rules of Precedence.
The following rules set forth the order of precedence that determines which definition applies in a specific instance within the provisions of this UDO:
110-20.01
When definitions are provided within an individual chapter or section of this UDO, those definitions are to be applied within said chapter or section. If the same term or phrase is also defined in this section, the definition in this section shall not apply in that instance.
110-20.02
When no definitions are provided within an individual title, chapter or section of this UDO, words and phrases used in this Ordinance shall have the meaning established by the definitions provided in Section 110-40, General Definitions or Section 110-50, Definitions by Category.
110-20.03
When definitions are provided that are specific to Soil Erosion, Sedimentation and Pollution Control, Floodplain Management, and Stormwater Management they are listed in Section 110-50, Definitions by Category below.
110-20.04
Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this Ordinance shall be as defined in the most recent edition of Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Words not defined herein or in the above-referenced book shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use, and shall be interpreted within the context of the sentence, section and article in which they occur.
110-20.05
Whenever a conflict of definitions is considered to exist or an interpretation of these definitions is necessary, the Community Development Director shall resolve the conflict and interpret the definition. The action of the Community Development Director shall be recorded.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 110-30. - Abbreviations.
As used in this UDO, the following abbreviations represent the terms set forth below.
ARC: Atlanta Regional Commission
BMP: Best Management Practice
CLOMA: Conditional Letter of Map Amendment
CLOMR: Conditional Letter of Map Revision
CPESC: Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control
DBH: Diameter at Breast Height
DRI: Development of Regional Impact
EPA: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
EPD: Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division
EV: Electric Vehicle
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency
FIS: Flood Insurance Study
FIRM: Flood Insurance Rate Map
GDOT: Georgia Department of Transportation
GRTA: Georgia Regional Transportation Authority
HLP: House Location Plan
ICC: International Code Council
LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, as administered by the Green Building Certification Institute
LOMA: Letter of Map Amendment
LOMR: Letter of Map Revision
MPH: Miles per Hour
NAICS: North American Industry Classification System
NOI: Notice of Intent
NOT: Notice of Termination
NOV: Notice of Violation
NPDES: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NTU: Nephelometric Turbidity Units
NWGRC: Northwest Georgia Regional Commission
O.C.G.A.: The Official Code of Georgia Annotated
PCDOT: Paulding County Department of Transportation
Sf: Square feet
UDO: Unified Development Ordinance of the City of Hiram, Georgia
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 110-40. - General Definitions.
In order to bring flexibility, clarity and breadth to the City of Hiram UDO, an effort has been made to align the definitions and uses listed in the Base and Overlay Districts of this UDO with similar terms from the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). References to the NAICS codes shall mean those codes assigned to businesses in the 2022 NAICS manual published by the United States Office of Management and Budget. NAICS codes are provided for reference purposes in parentheses following certain definitions for uses that employ the NAICS system as an aid in interpretation and determination of those specific uses included in general class of uses. The full NAICS listing can be found at https://www.census.gov/naics/ . The uses listed here in reference to NAICS classification are not exhaustive, exclusive, or final, but are referenced only for guidance and clarity.
For the purpose of this Unified Development Ordinance, the following definitions shall apply, except where otherwise provided in Section 110-20.
Accessory Retail Sales and Services: Retail sales and services accessory to the operation of an office building or institutional use, certain limited industrial and e-Commerce uses, motel, hotel, apartment development, conducted wholly within the building housing the use to which such activities are accessory, provided that the floor space used or to be used for such secondary uses shall be limited to a total of 25 square feet per dwelling unit in an apartment development or 25 square feet per room in a hotel or motel, or 10% of the net floor area in an office building or institutional use, and provided that:
1.
Every public entrance to such a use shall be from a lobby, hallway or other interior portion of the primary use structure;
2.
No show window, merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside of the primary advertising, or display shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure; and no use structure.
3.
No merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside of the primary use structure.
However, the requirements of (1) and (2) above shall not apply to restaurants and cafeterias secondary to a hotel or motel and office building or institutional use; these secondary uses may be located in a structure other than the primary use structure. The following secondary uses are permitted: barbershops, beauty shops, laundry and dry cleaning pickup and distribution stations and other similar personal service establishments; drugstores; bookstores; florists; convenience food stores; gift shops; cafeterias and restaurants; private clubs; laundry facilities for the convenience of residents; newsstands. However, the total net floor space for such secondary building or structure uses shall be limited to 6,000 square feet.
Accessory Structures and Uses: Uses subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, provided any such use is established with or after the construction of the principal building. Such uses include: garbage pads, heating and air conditioning units, Jacuzzis, tennis courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses, playgrounds, and the like.
Adult Day Care (ADC): The provision of a comprehensive plan of services that meets the needs of aging adults as defined in paragraph (g) of these definitions under a social model, as defined in paragraph (ll) of these definitions. This term shall not include programs which provide day habilitation and treatment services exclusively for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Adult Day Center: A facility serving aging adults that provides adult day care or adult day health services, as defined, for compensation to three or more persons. Adult day centers may operate in more than one location if classified and approved by the Georgia Department of Community Health as a mobile adult day center. This term shall not include a respite care services program.
Adult Day Health Services (ADHS): The provision of a comprehensive plan of services that meets the needs of aging adults under a medical model as defined in Chapter 111-8-1 of Rules and Regulations for Adult Day Centers. This term shall not include programs which provide day habilitation and treatment services exclusively for individuals with developmental disabilities.
Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing (33641): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing complete aircraft, missiles, or space vehicles; (2) manufacturing aerospace engines, propulsion units, auxiliary equipment or parts; (3) developing and making prototypes of aerospace products; (4) aircraft conversion (i.e., major modifications to systems); and (5) complete aircraft or propulsion systems overhaul and rebuilding (i.e., periodic restoration of aircraft to original design specifications).
Agriculture: Land shall be considered used for agriculture if the raising of crops or animals is a principal use of the property.
Airport Operations (48811): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating international, national, or civil airports or public flying fields or (2) supporting airport operations (except special food services contractors), such as rental of hangar space, air traffic control services, baggage handling services, and cargo handling services.
Alcoholic Beverage: means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Alignment: The arrangement of objects along a straight line.
Ambulance Service (621910): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing transportation of patients by ground or air, along with medical care. These services are often provided during a medical emergency but are not restricted to emergencies. The vehicles are equipped with lifesaving equipment operated by medically trained personnel.
Ambulatory Health Care Services (621): Industries in the Ambulatory Health Care Services subsector provide health care services directly or indirectly to ambulatory patients and do not usually provide inpatient services. Health practitioners in this subsector provide outpatient services, with the facilities and equipment not usually being the most significant part of the production process.
Amenity: Any and all structures, including recreational facilities, located within a community which are designed and intended for the common use and enjoyment of all residents.
Amusement and Recreation Industries, Other (713990): This industry comprises establishments (except amusement parks and arcades; gambling industries; golf courses and country clubs; skiing facilities; marinas; fitness and recreational sports centers; and bowling centers) primarily engaged in providing recreational and amusement services.
Amusement and Theme Parks (713110): This industry comprises establishments, known as amusement or theme parks, primarily engaged in operating a variety of attractions, such as mechanical rides, water rides, games, shows, theme exhibits, refreshment stands, and picnic grounds. These establishments may lease space to others on a concession basis.
Animal Production and Aquaculture (112): Industries in the Animal Production and Aquaculture subsector raise or fatten animals for the sale of animals or animal products and/or raise aquatic plants and animals in controlled or selected aquatic environments for the sale of aquatic plants, animals, or their products. The subsector includes establishments, such as ranches, farms, and feedlots, primarily engaged in keeping, grazing, breeding, or feeding animals. These animals are kept for the products they produce or for eventual sale. The animals are generally raised in various environments, from total confinement or captivity to feeding on an open range pasture.
Animal Shows: Exhibitions of domestic or large animals for a maximum of seven days.
Apartment: A room or suite of two or more rooms occupied or suitable for occupancy as a dwelling unit for one family in a multiple dwelling or any other building not a single-family dwelling or two-family dwellings.
Apartment Building: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three or more families with separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Apparel Manufacturing (315): Industries in the Apparel Manufacturing subsector group establishments with two distinct manufacturing processes: (1) cut and sew (i.e., purchasing fabric and cutting and sewing to make a garment) and (2) the manufacture of garments in establishments that first knit fabric and then cut and sew the fabric into a garment. The Apparel Manufacturing subsector includes a diverse range of establishments manufacturing full lines of ready-to-wear apparel and custom apparel: apparel contractors, performing cutting or sewing operations on materials owned by others; jobbers, performing entrepreneurial functions involved in apparel manufacturing; and tailors, manufacturing custom garments for individual clients. Knitting fabric, when done alone, is classified in the Textile Mills subsector, but when knitting is combined with the production of complete garments, the activity is classified in the Apparel Manufacturing subsector.
Appliance Repair and Maintenance: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing household appliances without retailing new appliances, such as refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, clothes dryers, and room air-conditioners.
Architectural Style: Showing the influence of shapes, materials, detailing or other features associated with a particular architectural style.
Art Dealers (459920): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing original and limited edition art works. Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in displaying works of art for retail sale in art galleries.
Ashlar: A dressed or squared stone and the masonry built of such hewn stone. It may be coursed, with continuous horizontal joints or random, with discontinuous joints.
Asphalt Paving, Roofing, and Saturated Materials Manufacturing (32412): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing asphalt and tar paving mixtures and blocks and roofing cements and coatings from purchased asphaltic materials and/or (2) saturating purchased mats and felts with asphalt or tar from purchased asphaltic materials.
Automotive Body, Paint, and Interior Repair and Maintenance (811121): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing or customizing automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailer bodies and interiors; and/or painting automotive vehicles and trailer bodies.
Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing (5321): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing passenger cars and trucks without drivers and utility trailers. These establishments generally operate from a retail-like facility. Some establishments offer only short-term rental, others only longer-term leases, and some provide both types of services.
Auto Brokers Office: An establishment wherein an individual or individuals are engaged primarily in acting as agents and/or brokers in selling or buying motor vehicles.
Backyard Chickens: The keeping of a female pullet or hen of the Gallus gallus domesticus (roosters prohibited) which may be raised for the purpose of providing food or companionship as a pet.
Bar: Shall be an establishment that does not meet the definition of a restaurant, nightclub, lounge, farm winery, micro-brewery, tasting room or hotel, and serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises. The establishment derives 50% or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, or pursuant to State law. A licensee of a bar shall obtain and keep in force and affect a food service permit.
Basic Chemical Manufacturing (3251): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chemicals using basic processes, such as thermal cracking and distillation. Chemicals manufactured in this industry group are usually separate chemical elements or separate chemically-defined compounds.
Bay: One unit of a building that consists of a series of similar units; commonly defined as the number of vertical divisions within a building façade.
Beer and Wine Retailers, excluding Liquor (445320): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing packaged alcoholic beverages, such as ale, beer, and wine but excluding liquor.
Beverage Manufacturing (3121): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing soft drinks and ice; purifying and bottling water; and manufacturing brewery, winery, and distillery products.
Biohazards: Any biological or chemical substance that is dangerous to humans, animals, or the environment. This can include body fluids, human tissue and blood, and recombinant DNA.
Board of Commissioners: The Board of Commissioners of Paulding County, Georgia.
Boarding Services, Pet (812910): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing pet care services (except veterinary), such as boarding, grooming, sitting, and training pets.
Boat Building (336612): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in building boats. Boats are defined as watercraft not built in shipyards and typically of the type suitable or intended for personal use. Included in this industry are establishments that manufacture heavy-duty inflatable rubber or inflatable plastic boats (RIBs).
Botanical Gardens (712130): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of live plant and animal life displays.
Bowling Centers (713950): This industry comprises establishments engaged in operating bowling centers. These establishments often provide food and beverage services.
Breeder: A person who offers for sale litters of animals. A household which sells two litters during a 12-month period, even if the litters are produced from different animals, will not be considered a hobby breeder and will be subject to the registration procedures applicable to animal establishments and breeders as designated in Paulding Code Chapter 14, Article II.
Breweries: A premises where beer and malt beverage are manufactured.
Buffer: A barrier which is created by the use of evergreen trees or other acceptable plant or vegetative material alone or in combination with berms, fencing, or walls used to physically separate or screen one use or property from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or dissimilar uses.
Buffer, Natural/Undisturbed: An existing natural barrier, which contains a stand of evergreen trees or other acceptable vegetative material with a density or intensity, which in the opinion of the Planning staff meets the intent of the definition of buffer.
Buffer, Planted/Landscaped: A planted natural barrier which contains a stand of evergreen trees or other acceptable vegetative material with a density or intensity which meets the intent of the definition of buffer.
Buffer Area: An area set aside to give additional setback from adjacent structures or types of land use.
Building: Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals or personal property of any kind.
Building Height: The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge of the gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb level if the building is not more than ten feet from the front lot line or from the grade in all other cases.
Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealer (444): Industries in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers subsector retail new building material and garden equipment and supplies from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector have display equipment designed to handle lumber and related products and garden equipment and supplies that may be kept either indoors or outdoors under covered areas. The staff is usually knowledgeable in the use of the specific products being retailed in the construction, repair, and maintenance of the home and associated grounds.
Business Schools and Computer and Management Training (6114): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) offering courses in office procedures and secretarial and stenographic skills and may offer courses in basic office skills, such as word processing; (2) conducting computer training (except computer repair); or (3) offering an array of short duration courses and seminars for management and professional development. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.
Caliper: The standard for trunk measurements of nursery stock. Caliper of the trunk shall be taken at six inches above the ground for trees up to and including four-inch caliper size, and 12 inches above the ground for trees larger than four-inch caliper.
Canopy: A roofed structure constructed of fabric or other material placed so as to extend outward from a building providing a protective shield for doors, windows and other openings, supported by the building and supports extended to the ground directly under the canopy or cantilevered from the building.
Car Washes (811192): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cleaning, washing, and/or waxing automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and trailers.
Cement and Concrete Product Manufacturing (3273): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) manufacturing portland, natural, masonry, pozzolanic, and other hydraulic cements; (2) acting as batch or mixing plants, manufacturing concrete delivered to a purchaser in a plastic and unhardened state; (3) manufacturing concrete pipe, brick, and block; or (4) manufacturing other concrete products (except block, brick, and pipe).
Cemeteries (812220): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing the dead for burial or interment and conducting funerals (i.e., providing facilities for wakes, arranging transportation for the dead, selling caskets and related merchandise). Funeral homes combined with crematories are included in this industry.
Center: A facility providing a local place for a particular activity or service.
Charitable Organization Collection Receptacle: An unattended container, located outdoors, for the purpose of collecting donations of clothing, books, personal or household items, or other goods. Such term shall not include containers used for the purpose of collecting monetary donations.
Check Cashing Services: Any business, company, corporation, establishment, organization, private enterprise, shop or store whose primary service is that of check cashier, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 7-1-700, as may be amended from time to time.
Child Care Learning Center: Any place operated by an individual or any business entity recognized under Georgia law wherein are received for pay for group care, for fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody, seven or more children under 18 years of age and which is required to be licensed. Child Care Learning Center also includes any day care center previously licensed by the Georgia Department of Human Resources and transferred pursuant to Code Section 20-1A-1 et seq.
Church: A place where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Circuses and Carnivals: Provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, animal exhibitions or similar activities in a tent or other temporary structure for a maximum of seven days. This classification excludes events conducted in a permanent entertainment facility.
City: The City of Hiram, Georgia.
City Council: The City Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
Civic and Social Organizations (81341): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the civic and social interests of their members.
Clay Product and Refractory Manufacturing (3271): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) shaping, molding, glazing, and firing pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures, and electrical supplies made entirely or partly of clay or other ceramic materials or (2) shaping, molding, baking, burning, or hardening clay refractories, nonclay refractories, ceramic tile, structural clay tile, brick, and other structural clay building materials.
Clothing and Clothing Accessories Retailers (4581): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing general or specialized lines of new clothing and clothing accessories, such as hats and caps, costume jewelry, gloves, handbags, ties, wigs, toupees, and belts. These establishments may provide basic alterations, such as hemming, taking in or letting out seams, or lengthening or shortening sleeves.
Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners (812310): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating facilities with coin-operated or similar self-service laundry and drycleaning equipment for customer use on the premises and/or (2) supplying and servicing coin-operated or similar self-service laundry and drycleaning equipment for customer use in places of business operated by others, such as apartments and dormitories.
Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools (6113). This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic courses and granting degrees at baccalaureate or graduate levels. The requirement for admission is at least a high school diploma or equivalent general academic training. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.
Commencement: The issuance of a land disturbance permit or building permit for a project approved by the City Council with an approved amendment.
Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing (5324): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing commercial-type and industrial-type machinery and equipment. Establishments included in this industry group are generally involved in providing capital or investment-type equipment that clients use in their business operations. These establishments typically cater to a business clientele and do not generally operate a retail-like or storefront facility.
Commercial Banking (522110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting demand and other deposits and making commercial, industrial, and consumer loans. Commercial banks and branches of foreign banks are included in this industry.
Commercial Development: Any development which is not a single-family residential subdivision.
Community Living Arrangement: Any residence, whether operated for profit or not, that undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of daily personal services, supports, care, or treatment exclusively for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage and whose residential services are financially supported, in whole or in part, by funds designated through the Department of Human Resources, Division of Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, and Addictive Diseases. A Community Living Arrangement is also referred to as a "residence".
Common Space: Any and all landscaped areas within the community which do not have any building with heated floor area located thereon which are intended for the common use and enjoyment of all residents.
Common Storage Facility: A facility, internally located within a residential development, to provide secure space (i.e. rooms, compartments, lockers, containers or paved outdoor space) for storage of personal items, boats, travel trailers, and/or vehicles of residents only.
Community Fair: A festival or fair, provided any activity is conducted at least 200 feet from any property line; any event shall not exceed 21 days.
Community Garden: A shared, semi-public space where people in the surrounding neighborhood share the work and harvest of maintaining a garden space for growing fruits and vegetables.
Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing (334): Industries in the Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing subsector group establishments that manufacture computers, computer peripherals, communications equipment, and similar electronic products, and establishments that manufacture components for such products.
Computer Systems Design and Related Services (54151): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing expertise in the field of information technologies through one or more of the following activities: (1) writing, modifying, testing, and supporting software to meet the needs of a particular customer; (2) planning and designing computer systems that integrate computer hardware, software, and communication technologies; (3) on-site management and operation of clients' computer systems and/or data processing facilities; and (4) other professional and technical computer related advice and services.
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related Services (518): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing computing infrastructure, data processing services, Web hosting services (except software publishing), and related services, including streaming support services (except streaming distribution services). Data processing establishments provide complete processing and specialized reports from data supplied by clients or provide automated data processing and data entry services.
Conference Center: A facility used for conferences and seminars, with accommodations for sleeping, food preparation and eating, recreation, entertainment, resource facilities, and meeting rooms.
Construction (23): The Construction sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of buildings or engineering projects (e.g., highways and utility systems). Establishments primarily engaged in the preparation of sites for new construction and establishments primarily engaged in subdividing land for sale as building sites also are included in this sector.
Container Restaurant: A container restaurant is any eating facility that is confined within a transportable, modular container less than 450 square feet for use as pop-up food or a catering unit and contribute to an overall thematic design of neighboring uses.
Contiguous: Next to, abutting, or touching and having a boundary, or portion thereof, which is common or coterminous.
Copy Shops (561439): This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments generally known as copy centers or shops primarily engaged in providing photocopying, duplicating, blueprinting, and other document copying services, without also providing printing services (e.g., offset printing, quick printing, digital printing, prepress services) and (2) establishments (except private mail centers) engaged in providing a range of office support services (except printing services), such as document copying services, facsimile services, word processing services, on-site PC rental services, and office product sales.
Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional Managing Offices (551114). This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except government establishments) primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of the company or enterprise. These establishments normally undertake the strategic or organizational planning and decision-making role of the company or enterprise. Establishments in this industry may hold the securities of the company or enterprise.
Corral: A small enclosure for restricting animals as distinguished from a fence.
Corridor: All land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
County: Paulding County.
Couriers and Express Delivery Services (492110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air, surface, or combined mode courier and express delivery services of parcels, but not operating under a universal service obligation. These parcels can include goods and documents, but the express delivery services are not part of the normal mail service. These services are generally between metropolitan areas, urban centers, or international, but the establishments of this industry form a network that includes local pick-up and delivery to serve their customers' needs.
Cover: Vegetative or earth materials that provide natural shelter for animal life, or the factors that provide such shelter.
Craftsman Style: The common features of the Craftsman style include low-pitched gable (triangular) roofs, overhanging eaves with exposed rafters and beams, heavy, tapered columns, patterned window panes and a covered front porch.
Crosswalk: A right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use for pedestrian use only and is so designed as to provide access to adjacent streets or lots.
Curve: Any potion of a street right-of-way layout that is not straight or has an arc.
Customer: Any owner of premises receiving any City utility system service or any end-user thereof, including any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual firm, association or trust and any or private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
Deck: A roofless accessory attached or detached platform without exterior walls, generally constructed of wood, which adjoins a residence. Rails or safety features shall not be deemed to be exterior walls.
Development or Single Development: Any project or group of related projects constructed or planned for construction on a single parcel or on contiguous parcels under single ownership.
Development Plan: Any plan as determined by the zoning administrator which shows substantial information and intent to develop the property affected in a specific manner.
Diameter at Breast Height (DBH): The standard of tree size (for trees existing on a site). The tree trunk is measured at a height of four and a half feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below four and a half feet, measure the trunk at its most narrow point beneath the split.
Diet and Weight Reducing Centers (812191): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing non-medical services to assist clients in attaining or maintaining a desired weight. The sale of weight reduction products, such as food supplements, may be an integral component of the program. These services typically include individual or group counseling, menu and exercise planning, and weight and body measurement monitoring.
Distance: The measurement in lineal feet from the closest point of the sign to the nearest property line or to the closest point of another sign, as the case may be.
Dormitories: Building or space in a building in which group sleeping accommodations are provided for more than 16 persons who are not members of the same family in one room or a series of closely associated rooms under joint occupancy and single management, with or without meals, but without individual cooking facilities.
Drinking Places (722410): This industry comprises establishments known as bars, taverns, nightclubs, or drinking places primarily engaged in preparing and serving alcoholic beverages for immediate consumption. These establishments may also provide limited food services.
Drip Line: An imaginary vertical line that extends from the outermost branches of a tree's canopy to the ground.
Drive-in Motion Picture Theaters (512132): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating drive-in motion picture theaters.
Drycleaning and Laundry Services (812320): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) providing drycleaning services (except coin-operated); (2) providing laundering services (except linen and uniform supply or coin-operated); (3) providing drop-off and pick-up sites for laundries and/or drycleaners; and (4) providing specialty cleaning services for specific types of garments and other textile items (except carpets and upholstery), such as fur, leather, or suede garments; wedding gowns; hats; draperies; and pillows. These establishments may provide all, a combination of, or none of the cleaning services on the premises.
Dwelling: A building designed, arranged or used for permanent living and/or sleeping quarters (excludes mobile home).
Dwelling, Attached Cottage: A one-family dwelling with at least three, but no more than four, attached units in which each unit has at least two exterior walls and each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more vertical common fire resistance-rated walls. Cottages are exclusively single-story but may include a second story bonus room.
Dwelling, Duplex: A building designed or arranged to be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
Dwelling, Multifamily: A dwelling containing three or more dwelling units, including single-level units located in a multistory building. This definition does not include a townhouse.
Dwelling, Single-Family Detached: A building designed or arranged to be occupied by one family only.
Dwelling, Townhouse: One of a series of three or more attached single-family dwelling units where each unit functions for use as an independent housekeeping unit with its own private entrance and each unit is located on its own separate lot in fee simple ownership.
Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping.
Easement: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity, and recorded in the Clerk's office of Superior Court.
Eave: The underside of a sloping roof projecting beyond the wall of a building.
Electric Vehicle Charging Station: An infrastructure facility composed of one or more parking spaces located together that is primarily engaged in providing electricity for use in electronic charging and recharging of plug-in electric vehicles (EV).
Electronic Shopping and Mail-Order Houses: This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing all types of merchandise using non-store means, such as catalogs, toll free telephone numbers, or electronic media, such as interactive television or the Internet. Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in retailing from catalog showrooms of mail-order houses.
Electronics and Appliance Retailers (449210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) retailing an array of new household-type appliances and consumer-type electronic products, such as televisions, computers, electronic tablets, and cameras; (2) specializing in retailing a single line of new consumer-type electronic products; (3) retailing these new products in combination with repair and support services; (4) retailing new prepackaged or downloadable computer software (without publishing); and/or (5) retailing prerecorded audio and video media, such as downloadable digital music and video files (without production or publishing), CDs, and DVDs.
Elementary and Secondary Schools (6111). This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic courses and associated course work that comprise a basic preparatory education. A basic preparatory education ordinarily constitutes kindergarten through 12th grade. This industry includes school boards and school districts.
Elevation: A mechanically accurate, "head-on" drawing of a face of a building or object, without any allowance for the effect of the laws of perspective. Any measurement on an elevation will be in a fixed proportion, or scale, to the corresponding measurement on the real building.
Emission Inspection Station: A motor vehicle dealership, garage, service station, or other establishment designated or operated by the Department of Natural Resources and which has been issued by the Director a Certificate of authorization as an emission inspection station authorized to carry out the emission inspections required by O.C.G.A. §12-9-40 et al.
Explosives Manufacturing (325920): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing explosives.
Extended Stay Hotel or Motels: Any hotel or motel in which fifty percent or greater of all guest rooms have facilities for both the storage and preparation of food and which are designed or utilized for weekly or monthly occupancy.
Exterminating and Pest Control Services (561710): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in exterminating and controlling birds, mosquitoes, rodents, termites, and other insects and pests (except for crop production and forestry production). Establishments providing fumigation services are included in this industry.
Façade: That portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending from grade to top of the parapet, wall, or eaves and the entire width of the building elevation.
Family: One or more related persons by blood, legal adoption, or marriage or not more than three persons not related, occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from persons occupying a boardinghouse, rooming house or hotel, as herein defined. Maximum residential occupancy for a residential dwelling unit will be calculated by the number of residents per square foot of floor space as per the currently adopted International Property Maintenance Code.
Family Child Care Learning Home: A private residence operated by any person who receives therein for pay for supervision and care fewer than 24 hours per day, without transfer of legal custody, at least three but not more than six children under 13 years of age who are not related to such persons and whose parent(s) are not residents in the same private residence as the provider and which is required to be licensed; provided, however, that the total number of unrelated children cared for in such home, for pay and not for pay, may not exceed six children under 13 years of age at one time, except that a provider may care for two additional children three years of age or older for two designated one hour periods daily upon approval by the Department of Human Resources.
Farm Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair Maintenance Services (811310): This sector comprises of establishments that are engaged primarily in the repair or maintenance of machinery used in farming and other agricultural uses. Such equipment includes but is not limited to plows, harvesters, planters, hay balers, and the like.
Farm Winery: A winery which makes at least 40 percent of its annual production from agricultural produce grown in the state where the winery is located and: (A) Is located on premises, a substantial portion of which is used for agricultural purposes, including the cultivation of grapes, berries, or fruits to be utilized in the manufacture or production of wine by the winery; or (B) Is owned and operated by persons who are engaged in the production of a substantial portion of the agricultural produce used in its annual production.
Fertilizer Manufacturing (32531): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing nitrogenous or phosphatic fertilizer materials; (2) manufacturing fertilizers from sewage or animal waste; (3) manufacturing nitrogenous or phosphatic materials and mixing with other ingredients into fertilizers; and (4) mixing ingredients made elsewhere into fertilizers.
Final Plat: A finished drawing or drawings of the subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information and certification necessary for recording. The finished drawing or drawings may consist of one or more drawings of the subdivision which together form the final plat, all of which must comply with the requirements of this UDO.
Finance and Insurance Offices (52): The Finance and Insurance sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in financial transactions (transactions involving the creation, liquidation, or change in ownership of financial assets) and/or in facilitating financial transactions.
Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities (522320): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following: (1) financial transaction processing (except central bank); (2) reserve and liquidity services (except central bank); and/or (3) check or other financial instrument clearinghouse services (except central bank).
Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers (713940): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating fitness and recreational sports facilities featuring exercise and other active physical fitness conditioning or recreational sports activities, such as swimming, skating, or racquet sports.
Flea Market: Any event whose primary service is that of a flea market, as defined by O.C.G.A § 10-1-360, as may be amended from time to time.
Floor Area, Gross: The floor area within the inside perimeter of the exterior walls of the building under consideration, exclusive of vent shafts and courts, without deduction for corridors, stairways, closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or other features. The floor area of a building, or portion thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above.
Floor Area (Space), Net: The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior vehicular parking or loading; and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or intended to be used for human habitation or service to the public.
Florists (459310): This industry comprises establishments known as florists primarily engaged in retailing cut flowers, floral arrangements, and potted plants purchased from others. These establishments usually prepare the arrangements they sell.
Fluid Power Pump and Motor Manufacturing (333996): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fluid power (i.e., hydraulic and pneumatic) pumps and motors.
Food and Beverage Retailers except Liquor Retailers (445): Industries in the Food and Beverage Stores subsector usually retail food and beverage merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector have special equipment (e.g., freezers, refrigerated display cases, refrigerators) for displaying food and beverage goods. They have staff trained in the processing of food products to guarantee the proper storage and sanitary conditions required by regulatory authority.
Food Manufacturing (311): Industries in the Food Manufacturing subsector transform livestock and agricultural products into products for intermediate or final consumption. The industry groups are distinguished by the raw materials (generally of animal or vegetable origin) processed into food products. The food products manufactured in these establishments are typically sold to wholesalers or retailers for distribution to consumers, but establishments primarily engaged in retailing bakery and candy products made on the premises not for immediate consumption are included.
Food Services and Drinking Places (722): Industries in the Food Services and Drinking Places subsector prepare meals, snacks, and beverages to customer order for immediate on-premises and off-premises consumption. There is a wide range of establishments in these industries. Some provide food and drink only, while others provide various combinations of seating space, waiter/waitress services, and incidental amenities, such as limited entertainment. The industries in the subsector are grouped based on the type and level of services provided. The industry groups are Special Food Services, such as food service contractors, caterers, and mobile food services; Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages); and Restaurants and Other Eating Places.
Forestry and Logging (113): Industries in the Forestry and Logging subsector grow and harvest timber on a long production cycle (i.e., of 10 years or more). Long production cycles use different production processes than short production cycles, which require more horticultural interventions prior to harvest, resulting in processes more similar to those found in the Crop Production subsector. Industries in this subsector specialize in different stages of the production cycle. Reforestation requires production of seedlings in specialized nurseries. Timber production requires natural forest or suitable areas of land that are available for a long duration. The maturation time for timber depends upon the species of tree, the climatic conditions of the region, and the intended purpose of the timber. The harvesting of timber (except when done on an extremely small scale) requires specialized machinery unique to the industry. Establishments gathering forest products, such as gums, barks, balsam needles, rhizomes, fibers, Spanish moss, and ginseng and truffles, are also included in this subsector.
Freight Transportation Arrangement (488510): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in arranging transportation of freight between shippers and carriers. These establishments are usually known as freight forwarders, marine shipping agents, or customs brokers and offer a combination of services spanning transportation modes.
Frontage, Lot: The distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Funeral Homes and Funeral Services (812210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing the dead for burial or interment and conducting funerals (i.e., providing facilities for wakes, arranging transportation for the dead, selling caskets and related merchandise). Funeral homes combined with crematories are included in this industry.
Furniture and Home Furnishing Retailers (4491): Industries in the Furniture and Home Furnishings Stores subsector retail new furniture and home furnishings from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector usually operate from showrooms and have substantial areas for the presentation of their products. Many offer interior decorating services in addition to the sale of products.
Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing (337): Industries in the Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing subsector make furniture and related articles, such as mattresses, window blinds, cabinets, and fixtures. The processes used in the manufacture of furniture include the cutting, bending, molding, laminating, and assembly of such materials as wood, metal, glass, plastics, and rattan. However, the production process for furniture is not solely bending metal, cutting and shaping wood, or extruding and molding plastics. Design and fashion trends play an important part in the production of furniture. The integrated design of the article for both esthetic and functional qualities is also a major part of the process of manufacturing furniture. Design services may be performed by the furniture establishment's work force or may be purchased from industrial designers.
Gable: The portion, above eave level, of an end wall of a building with a pitched or gambrel roof. In the case of a pitched roof this takes the form of a triangle. The term is also used sometimes to refer to the whole end wall.
Garage: A structure or any portion thereof in which one or more automobiles are housed, kept, or repaired, not including exhibition or showrooms, or storage of cars for sale.
Gasoline Stations (4571): Industries in the Gasoline Stations subsector retail automotive fuels (e.g., gasoline, diesel fuel, gasohol, alternative fuels) and automotive oils or retail these products in combination with convenience store items. These establishments have specialized equipment for storing and dispensing automotive fuels.
General Automotive Repair (811111): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing (1) a wide range of mechanical and electrical repair and maintenance services for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailers or (2) engine repair and replacement.
General Freight Trucking (4841): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing general freight trucking. General freight trucking establishments handle a wide variety of commodities, generally palletized, and transported in a container or van trailer. The establishments of this industry group provide a combination of the following network activities: local pick-up, local sorting and terminal operations, line-haul, destination sorting and terminal operations, and local delivery.
General Merchandise Retailers (455): Industries in the General Merchandise Stores subsector retail new general merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector are unique in that they have the equipment and staff capable of retailing a large variety of goods from a single location. This includes a variety of display equipment and staff trained to provide information on many lines of products.
General Warehousing and Storage (493110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating merchandise warehousing and storage facilities. These establishments generally handle goods in containers, such as boxes, barrels, and/or drums, using equipment, such as forklifts, pallets, and racks. They are not specialized in handling bulk products of any particular type, size, or quantity of goods or products.
Gift, Novelty, and Souvenir Retailers (459420): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new gifts, novelty merchandise, souvenirs, greeting cards, seasonal and holiday decorations, and curios. This definition and use does not involve any uses defined under the Sexually Oriented Business ordinance or cigar shop, smoke shop, vape shop and tobacco store definitions adopted in the Code of Ordinances.
Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing (32721): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing glass and/or glass products. Establishments in this industry may manufacture glass and/or glass products by melting silica sand or cullet, or from purchased glass.
Golf Courses (713910): This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in operating golf courses (except miniature) and (2) establishments primarily engaged in operating golf courses, along with dining facilities and other recreational facilities that are known as country clubs. These establishments often provide food and beverage services, equipment rental services, and golf instruction services.
Grade: An average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure.
Greenhouse, Nursery, and Floriculture Production (1114): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing crops of any kind under cover and/or growing nursery stock and flowers. "Under cover" is generally defined as greenhouses, cold frames, cloth houses, and lath houses. The crops grown are removed at various stages of maturity and have annual and perennial life cycles. The nursery stock includes short rotation woody crops that have growth.
Grocery and Convenience Retailers (4451): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of food products. Includes Vending Machine Operators.
Guest House: Guest houses are accessory buildings limited to one (1) such structure per lot and shall not include manufactured, mobile or modular structures. The minimum lot size is two (2) acres and shall be limited to the total area of all structures (existing and proposed) to be not more than twenty (20) percent of the total lot area.
Hair, Nail, and Skin Care Services (81211): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) providing hair care services; (2) providing nail care services; and (3) providing facials or applying makeup (except permanent makeup).
Handicapped: With respect to a person, means having:
A.
A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of living independently;
B.
A record of having such an impairment; or
C.
Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance.
Hardware Retailers (444140): This industry comprises establishments known as hardware stores primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new hardware items, such as tools and builders' hardware.
Hardwood Tree: Any tree that is not coniferous (cone bearing). This definition is based on the colloquialism, and does not necessarily reflect any true qualities of the tree.
Health and Personal Care Retailers (456): Industries in the Health and Personal Care Stores subsector retail health and personal care merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector are characterized principally by the products they retail, and some health and personal care stores may have specialized staff trained in dealing with the products. Staff may include pharmacists, opticians, and other professionals engaged in retailing, advising customers, and/or fitting the product sold to the customer's needs.
Height: The measure in linear feet from the highest point on an object to the unaltered elevation of the ground at the base of the object or directly beneath the object. At the election of the permit holder, the height of a sign may be measured from the highest point on the sign to the level of the nearest road from which the sign is intended to be viewed. When referring to a tower or other structure, a distance measured from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
Heliports: Landing and takeoff places for a helicopters.
Historic Sites: Refers to the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself possesses historic, cultural, or archeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure (habitation sites, funerary sites, rock shelters, village sites, hunting and fishing sites, ceremonial sites, pertroglyphs, rock carvings, gardens, grounds, battlefields, ruins of historic buildings and structures, campsites, trails, areas of land, cemeteries, designed landscapes, and natural features, such as springs and rock formations, and land areas having cultural significance).
Hobby Breeder: A person who offers for sale one litter of animals during a 12-month period per household. A household which sells two litters during a 12-month period, even if the litters are produced from different animals, will not be considered a hobby breeder and will be subject to the registration procedures applicable to animal establishments and breeders as designated in Paulding Code Chapter 14, Article II.
Hog and Pig Farming (112210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising hogs and pigs. These establishments may include farming activities, such as breeding, farrowing, and the raising of weanling pigs, feeder pigs, or market size hogs.
Home Occupation: An occupation carried on within a dwelling unit for gain or support, meeting the requirements of Section 230-30.
Hospitals (622): Industries in the Hospitals subsector provide medical, diagnostic, and treatment services that include physician, nursing, and other health services to inpatients and the specialized accommodation services required by inpatients. Hospitals may also provide outpatient services as a secondary activity. Establishments in the Hospitals subsector provide inpatient health services, many of which can only be provided using the specialized facilities and equipment that form a significant and integral part of the production process.
Hotels and Motels (721110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels, motor hotels, resort hotels, and motels. The establishments in this industry may offer food and beverage services, recreational services, conference rooms, convention services, laundry services, parking, and other services.
I-Dining: An establishment where food and/or beverages are sold in a form ready for consumption, where all or a significant portion of the consumption takes place or is designed to take place outside the confines of the restaurant and where ordering and pickup of food may take place from an automobile.
Includes: Denotes a partial definition.
Industrialized Building: Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Installation: The assembly of an industrialized building on-site and the process of affixing the industrialized building, component, or system to land, a foundation, footings, or an existing building.
Intermediate Care Home: A facility which admits residents on medical referral; it maintains the services and facilities for institutional care and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies; it otherwise complies with Chapter 111-8-47 of the Georgia Rules of Department of Community Health Healthcare Facility Regulation.
Junior Colleges (6112). This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic, or academic and technical, courses and granting associate degrees, certificates, or diplomas below the baccalaureate level. The requirement for admission to an associate or equivalent degree program is at least a high school diploma or equivalent general academic training. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.
Kennel: Any premises where any person engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling animals.
Kidney Dialysis Centers (621492): This U.S. industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing outpatient kidney or renal dialysis services.
Lake: A body of water one acre or more in surface area, created either by a manmade or natural dam or other means of water impoundment.
Land Use Permit: An official authorization for use of land not to exceed two years which has been granted by the City Council in accord with this UDO.
Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing (316110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) tanning, currying, and finishing hides and skins; (2) having others process hides and skins on a contract basis; and (3) dyeing or dressing furs.
Lime and Gypsum Product Manufacturing (3274): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing lime from calcitic limestone, dolomitic limestone, or other calcareous materials or (2) manufacturing gypsum products.
Linen Supply (812331): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis, laundered items, such as table and bed linens; towels; diapers; and uniforms, gowns, or coats of the type used by doctors, nurses, barbers, beauticians, and waitresses.
Local Messengers and Local Delivery (492210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local messenger and delivery services of small items within a single metropolitan area or within an urban center. These establishments generally provide point-to-point pick-up and delivery and do not operate as part of an intercity courier network.
Lot: Contiguous parcels of land legally platted and recorded as a legal lot of record, in single or common ownership, and not divided by a public street. Also, a portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land and identified by a tract number, lot number or symbol of an approved subdivision plat properly recorded, and which is or may in the future be offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement. In determining the area and dimensions of a lot, no part of the right-of-way of a road or crosswalk may be included.
Lot, Corner: A lot fronting on two streets at their intersection. When the frontage of one street exceeds the frontage of the other, the one with the least frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot. The side yard setback for a corner lot shall be 25 feet in all zoning districts except where otherwise noted herein.
Lot, Double Frontage: Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two streets.
Lot Depth: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
Lot Frontage: The distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
Lot of Record: A lot which is part of a lawfully created subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court of Paulding County; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the same office as of the effective date of this ordinance.
Lot, Width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
Maintenance: Routine care for a building, structure or site that does not involve design alterations.
Manufacture: The process of making, fabricating, constructing, forming, or assembling a product from raw, unfinished, or semi-finished materials.
Manufactured (mobile) Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained herein. (Reference 42 USC 5402[6] [24CFR 3280.2(a) (16)] and the O.C.G.A. § 8-2-131[2].)
Manufactured Home Park: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured homes and/or mobile homes for non-transient use in accordance with requirements of this Ordinance.
Massage Therapy: The application of a system of structured touch, pressure, movement, and holding to the soft tissue of the body in which the primary intent is to enhance or restore health and well-being. The term includes complementary methods, including without limitation the external application of water, superficial heat, superficial cold, lubricants, salt scrubs, or other topical preparations and the use of commercially available electromechanical devices which do not require the use of transcutaneous electrodes and which mimic or enhance the actions possible by the hands; the term also includes determining whether massage therapy is appropriate or contraindicated, or whether referral to another health care provider is appropriate. Massage therapy shall not include the use of ultrasound, fluidotherapy, laser, and other methods of deep thermal modalities.
Materials Recovery Facilities (562920): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e., garbage) and/or (2) operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans, and metals, are sorted into distinct categories.
Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing (33911): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing medical equipment and supplies. Examples of products made by these establishments are surgical and medical instruments, surgical appliances and supplies, dental equipment and supplies, orthodontic goods, ophthalmic goods, dentures, and orthodontic appliances.
Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods (423): Industries in the Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods subsector sell capital or durable goods to other businesses. Merchant wholesalers generally take title to the goods that they sell; in other words, they buy and sell goods on their own account. Durable goods are new or used items generally with a normal life expectancy of three years or more. Durable goods merchant wholesale trade establishments are engaged in wholesaling products, such as motor vehicles, furniture, construction materials, machinery and equipment (including household-type appliances), metals and minerals (except petroleum), sporting goods, toys and hobby goods, recyclable materials, and parts.
Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods (424): Industries in the Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods subsector sell nondurable goods to other businesses. Nondurable goods are items generally with a normal life expectancy of less than three years. Nondurable goods merchant wholesale trade establishments are engaged in wholesaling products, such as paper and paper products, chemicals and chemical products, drugs, textiles and textile products, apparel, footwear, groceries, farm products, petroleum and petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, books, magazines, newspapers, flowers and nursery stock, and tobacco products.
Miscellaneous Store Retailers (except Tobacco Stores) (459999): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing miscellaneous specialized lines of merchandise (except motor vehicle and parts dealers; building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers; food and beverage retailers; furniture, home furnishings, electronics, and appliance retailers; general merchandise retailers; health and personal care retailers; gasoline stations and fuel dealers; clothing, clothing accessories, shoe, and jewelry retailers; sporting goods, hobby, and musical instrument retailers; book retailers and news dealers; florists; office supplies, stationery, and gift retailers; used merchandise retailers; pet and pet supplies retailers; art dealers; manufactured (mobile) home dealers; and tobacco, electronic cigarette, and other smoking supplies retailers).
Mobile Food Vending Unit: Any motorized vehicle, designed to be portable and not permanently attached to the ground from which food is peddled, vended, sold for sale or given away.
Motion Picture Theater (except Drive-Ins) (512131): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) and/or exhibiting motion pictures or videos at film festivals, and so forth.
Motor Vehicle: An automotive vehicle not operated on rails for use on highways.
Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers (441): Industries in the Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers subsector retail motor vehicles and parts from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector typically operate from a showroom and/or an open lot where the vehicles are on display. The display of vehicles and the related parts require little by way of display equipment. The personnel generally include both the sales and sales support staff familiar with the requirements for registering and financing a vehicle as well as a staff of parts experts and mechanics trained to provide repair and maintenance services for the vehicles. Specific industries included in this subsector identify the type of vehicle being retailed.
Motor Vehicle Body and Trailer Manufacturing (33621): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing motor vehicle bodies and cabs or (2) manufacturing truck, automobile and utility trailers, truck trailer chassis, detachable trailer bodies, and detachable trailer chassis. The products made may be sold separately or may be assembled on purchased chassis and sold as complete vehicles.
Motor Vehicle Manufacturing (3361): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing complete automobiles, light duty motor vehicles, and heavy duty trucks (i.e., body and chassis or unibody) or (2) manufacturing motor vehicle chassis only.
Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing (3363): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motor vehicle gasoline engines and engine parts, motor vehicle electrical and electronic equipment, motor vehicle steering and suspension components (except springs), motor vehicle brake systems, motor vehicle transmission and power train parts, motor vehicle seating and interior trim, motor vehicle metal stampings, and other motor vehicle parts and accessories. This industry group includes establishments that rebuild motor vehicle parts.
Motor Vehicle Towing (488410): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in towing light or heavy motor vehicles, both local and long-distance. These establishments may provide incidental services, such as storage and emergency road repair services.
Motorcycle, Bicycle, and Parts Manufacturing (336991): this U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motorcycles, bicycles, tricycles and similar equipment, and parts.
Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar Institutions (712): Industries in the Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar Institutions subsector engage in the preservation and exhibition of objects, sites, and natural wonders of historical, cultural, and/or educational value.
Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions (712190): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of natural areas or settings.
Newspaper Publishers (513110): This industry comprises establishments known as newspaper publishers. Establishments in this industry carry out operations necessary for producing and distributing newspapers, including gathering news; writing news columns, feature stories, and editorials; and selling and preparing advertisements. These establishments may publish newspapers in print or electronic form, including exclusively on the Internet.
Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying (2123): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing mine sites, or in mining or quarrying nonmetallic minerals (except fuels). Also included are certain well and brine operations, and preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating (e.g., crushing, grinding, washing, and concentrating) nonmetallic minerals.
Nursing Home: A facility which admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision; it maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical and/or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home; it otherwise complies with Chapter 111-8-56 of the Georgia Rules of Community Health.
Office Supplies and Stationary Retailers (459410): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) retailing new office supplies, stationery, and school supplies; (2) retailing a combination of new office equipment, furniture, and supplies; and (3) retailing new office equipment, furniture, and supplies in combination with selling new computers.
Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers (531210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents and/or brokers in one or more of the following: (1) selling real estate for others; (2) buying real estate for others; and (3) renting real estate for others.
Open Space: Any and all areas within the community which are left in a natural, undisturbed state and are intended for the common use and enjoyment of all residents. Buffers, including stream buffers, may be considered open space, but neither detention ponds nor any part of the right-of-way may be considered open space.
Outpatient Care Centers except Kidney Dialysis Centers (6214): This industry group comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing a range of outpatient services, such as family planning, diagnosis and treatment of mental health disorders and alcohol and other substance abuse, and other general or specialized outpatient care. This use does not include Kidney Dialysis Centers.
Overlay District: A district that applies supplementary regulations to land previously classified as belonging to a specific zoning district or land-use category.
Package: Bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Paint, Coating, and Adhesive Manufacturing (3255): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) mixing pigments, solvents, and binders into paints and other coatings; (2) manufacturing allied paint products; and (3) manufacturing adhesives, glues, and caulking compounds.
Paper Manufacturing (322): Industries in the Paper Manufacturing subsector make pulp, paper, or converted paper products. The manufacturing of these products is grouped together because they constitute a series of vertically connected processes. More than one is often carried out in a single establishment. There are essentially three activities. The manufacturing of pulp involves separating the cellulose fibers from other impurities in wood or used paper. The manufacturing of paper involves matting these fibers into a sheet. The manufacturing of converted paper products involves converting paper and other materials by various cutting and shaping techniques and includes coating and laminating activities.
Parcel Delivery Locker: A secure container that allows parcel delivery services to store parcels delivered to a centralized mail box for the surrounding community in which the lockers are located.
Park: Any lands or facility owned, operated, controlled or managed by any county, city, state, or federal government or any governmental entity in and upon which recreational activities or places are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Parking Lots and Garages (812930): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing parking space for motor vehicles, usually on an hourly, daily, or monthly basis and/or valet parking services.
Parking Space: An area which has for its exclusive purpose the parking of a vehicle which complies with the adopted design standards.
Paulding County or County: Refers to a political subdivision chartered and enabled pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia, any department, board, or commission of such County, any elected or appointed official, or any employee or designee thereof.
Pawnbrokers: Any person engaged in whole or in part in the business of lending money on the security of pledged goods, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal property from persons or sources other than manufacturers or licensed dealers as a part of or in conjunction with the business activities described in in O.C.G.A. § 44-12-130, or as it may be amended from time to time.
Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance (811490): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing personal or household-type goods without retailing new personal or household-type goods (except home and garden equipment, appliances, furniture, and footwear and leather goods). Establishments in this industry repair items, such as garments; watches; jewelry; musical instruments; bicycles and motorcycles; and motorboats, canoes, sailboats, and other recreational boats.
Personal Care Home: Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage.
Pet and Pet Supplies Retailers (459910): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing pets, pet foods, and pet supplies.
Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services (812910): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing pet care services (except veterinary), such as boarding, grooming, sitting, and training pets.
Petroleum Refineries (324110): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum. Petroleum refining involves one or more of the following activities: (1) fractionation; (2) straight distillation of crude oil; and (3) cracking.
Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing (32541): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing biological and medicinal products; (2) processing (i.e., grading, grinding, and milling) botanical drugs and herbs; (3) isolating active medicinal principals from botanical drugs and herbs; and (4) manufacturing pharmaceutical products intended for internal and external consumption in such forms as ampoules, tablets, capsules, vials, ointments, powders, solutions, and suspensions.
Photofinishing Laboratories (812921): This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except those known as "one-hour" photofinishing labs) primarily engaged in developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints, and enlargements.
Planning Commission: The Paulding County Planning Commission.
Plat: A map, plan, or layout, to scale of the incorporated city lot, section, sub-division or development indicating the location and boundaries of properties, and prepared by a registered land surveyor. Should the plat be recorded, it shall meet the minimum State of Georgia Plat Act requirements, and as may be amended from time to time.
Pollution or pollutants: The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water or air. The contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity, or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive, or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Premises: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Primary Metal Manufacturing (331): Industries in the Primary Metal Manufacturing subsector smelt and/or refine ferrous and nonferrous metals from ore, pig or scrap, using electrometallurgical and other process metallurgical techniques. Establishments in this subsector also manufacture metal alloys and superalloys by introducing other chemical elements to pure metals. The output of smelting and refining, usually in ingot form, is used in rolling, drawing, and extruding operations to make sheet, strip, bar, rod, or wire, and in molten form to make castings and other basic metal products.
Principal Use: The primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Printing (32311): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in printing on apparel and textile products, paper, metal, glass, plastics, and other materials, except fabric (grey goods). The printing processes employed include, but are not limited to, lithographic, gravure, screen, flexographic, digital, and letterpress. Establishments in this industry do not manufacture the stock that they print, but may perform postprinting activities, such as folding, cutting, or laminating the materials they print, and mailing.
Private: Any building, structure, or use owned, operated and/or intended for the restricted use of a particular person, group, or class.
Private Mail Centers (561431): This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in providing mailbox rental and other postal and mailing (except direct mail advertising) services or (2) establishments engaged in providing these mailing services along with one or more other office support services, such as facsimile services, word processing services, on-site PC rental services, and office product sales.
Produce Stand, Temporary: A structure not greater than one thousand (1,000) square feet for the purpose of seasonal sales of agricultural products.
Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services (541): Industries in the Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services subsector group establishments engaged in processes where human capital is the major input. These establishments make available the knowledge and skills of their employees, often on an assignment basis, where an individual or team is responsible for the delivery of services to the client. The individual industries of this subsector are defined on the basis of the particular expertise and training of the services provider.
Project: The improvements associated with the approval of a rezoning, including but not limited to the development of a residential subdivision or commercial development, construction of a structure, renovation of a tenant space, or active operation of the use granted.
Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals (622210): This industry comprises establishments known and licensed as psychiatric and substance abuse hospitals primarily engaged in providing diagnostic, medical treatment, and monitoring services for inpatients who suffer from mental illness or substance abuse disorders. The treatment often requires an extended stay in the hospital. These establishments maintain inpatient beds and provide patients with food services that meet their nutritional requirements. They have an organized staff of physicians and other medical staff to provide patient care services. Psychiatric, psychological, and social work services are available at the facility. These hospitals usually provide other services, such as outpatient services, clinical laboratory services, diagnostic X-ray services, and electroencephalograph services.
Public: Any building, structure, or use owned and/or operated by the federal government, state of Georgia, the City of Hiram, Paulding County or other County, any municipality, the Paulding County School District or any authority, agency, board, or commission of the above governments, that is necessary to serve a public purpose, such as but not limited to the following: government administrative buildings, post offices, police and fire stations, libraries and publicly operated museums, public health facilities and public hospitals, public works camps, parks and community centers, public roads and streets, schools, airports, water and sanitary sewerage intake, collection, pumping, treatment, and storage facilities, emergency medical facilities, and jails and correctional facilities.
Public Administration (92): The Public Administration sector consists of establishments of federal, state, and local government agencies that administer, oversee, and manage public programs and have executive, legislative, or judicial authority over other institutions within a given area. These agencies also set policy, create laws, adjudicate civil and criminal legal cases, and provide for public safety and for national defense. In general, government establishments in the Public Administration sector oversee governmental programs and activities that are not performed by private establishments. Establishments in this sector typically are engaged in the organization and financing of the production of public goods and services, most of which are provided for free or at prices that are not economically significant.
Racetracks (711212): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating racetracks. These establishments may also present and/or promote the events, such as auto, dog, and horse races, held in these facilities.
Radio and Television Broadcasting (5151): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating broadcast studios and facilities for over-the-air or satellite delivery of radio and television programs. These establishments are often engaged in the production or purchase of programs or generate revenues from the sale of air time to advertisers, from donations and subsidies, or from the sale of programs.
Recreational Building: Recreational buildings are accessory buildings limited to one such structure per lot and shall not include manufactured, mobile or modular structures. The minimum lot size is 10 acres and shall be limited to the total area of all structures (existing and proposed) to be not more than 20 percent of the total lot area and meeting the requirements of Section 230-30.
Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers (423930): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of automotive scrap, industrial scrap, and other recyclable materials. Included in this industry are auto wreckers primarily engaged in dismantling motor vehicles for the purpose of wholesaling scrap.
Recycling Center: A center or location designed for sorting or collection of recyclables from designated recycling collection locations and other private entity sources.
Refrigerated Warehousing and Storage (493120): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating refrigerated warehousing and storage facilities. Establishments primarily engaged in the storage of furs for the trade are included in this industry. The services provided by these establishments include blast freezing, tempering, and modified atmosphere storage services.
Religious Organizations (813110): This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in operating religious organizations, such as churches, religious temples, and monasteries, and/or (2) establishments primarily engaged in administering an organized religion or promoting religious activities.
Rental and Leasing Services (532): Industries in the Rental and Leasing Services subsector include establishments that provide a wide array of tangible goods, such as automobiles, computers, consumer goods, and industrial machinery and equipment, to customers in return for a periodic rental or lease payment. The subsector includes two main types of establishments: (1) those that are engaged in renting consumer goods and equipment and (2) those that are engaged in leasing machinery and equipment often used for business operations. The first type typically operates from a retail-like or storefront facility and maintains inventories of goods that are rented for short periods of time. The latter type typically does not operate from retail-like locations or maintain inventories, and offers longer-term leases. These establishments work directly with clients to enable them to acquire the use of equipment on a lease basis, or they work with equipment vendors or dealers to support the marketing of equipment to their customers under lease arrangements. Equipment lessors generally structure lease contracts to meet the specialized needs of their clients and use their remarketing expertise to find other users for previously leased equipment. Establishments that provide operating and capital (i.e., finance) leases are included in this subsector.
Repair: Any minor change to a property that is not construction, removal, demolition or alteration and that does not change exterior architectural appearance.
Residence: A house, apartment, mobile home, boardinghouse or rooming house, duplex, or other multifamily housing, for human dwelling, or any property zoned therefore.
Residential Build-To-Rent: A single-family residential community in which 80% or more of the units are occupied by tenants rather than owners.
Residential Business: An occupation or business which is conducted entirely within a dwelling, or customary accessory building, is carried on by the occupant(s) of the dwelling, is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes, and which can only be conducted subject to approval of a Land Use Permit by the City Council subject to meeting the standards in Section 230-50.
Residential Industrialized Building: An industrialized building that is a dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent metal chassis and shall be affixed to permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
Retirement Communities (Independent Living): A managed housing complex designed for older adults who are generally able to live independently and care for themselves. Limited or no personal or healthcare services are offered; however, activities and socialization opportunities may be provided.
Reupholstery and Furniture Repair (811420): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) reupholstering furniture; (2) refinishing furniture; (3) repairing furniture; and (4) repairing and restoring furniture.
Right-of-Way: The real property owned and controlled by a governmental agency for maintaining public infrastructure, including streets, sidewalks, pathways, mass transit rail lines, drainage ditches and structures, shoulders, traffic control devices, and vegetative buffers. The width of the right-of-way outside the pavement of any given street or road can be determined by the City Manager's officer, or their designee.
Rural Business: An occupation or business which is conducted within a dwelling, an accessory structure, or outside, and which is carried on by a resident of the property, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for the residential dwelling purposes, and which can only be conducted subject to approval of a Land Use Permit by the City Council. Rural businesses may be less restrictive than a residential business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees, and types of businesses. Rural businesses are subject to standards set forth in Section 230-50.
RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Campgrounds (721211): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating sites to accommodate campers and their equipment, including tents, tent trailers, travel trailers, and RVs (recreational vehicles). These establishments may provide access to facilities, such as washrooms, laundry rooms, recreation halls, playgrounds, stores, and snack bars.
Safe Exchange Zones: Designated areas within a community that are under 24 hour video surveillance at which an individual can conduct child custody exchanges, face to face online sales, or any other meeting where the individual feels the need for recorded video surveillance.
Sawmills (321113): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in sawing dimension lumber, boards, beams, timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood chips from logs or bolts. Sawmills may plane the rough lumber that they make with a planing machine to achieve smoothness and uniformity of size.
Schools and Instruction, Other (6116): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering or providing instruction (except academic schools, colleges, and universities; and business, computer, management, technical, or trade instruction). Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.
Scientific Research and Development Services (5417): This industry group comprises establishments engaged in conducting original investigation undertaken on a systematic basis to gain new knowledge (research) and/or the application of research findings or other scientific knowledge for the creation of new or significantly improved products or processes (experimental development). Techniques may include modeling and simulation. The industries within this industry group are defined on the basis of the domain of research; that is, on the scientific expertise of the establishment.
Shared Workspaces/Co-working Spaces: A facilitated environment which contains desks or other workspaces and facilities and is used by a recognized membership who share the site in order to interact and collaborate with each other. These spaces may or may not be occupied by individuals working for the same company or the same project at the same time.
Septic Tank: An underground cavity with watertight walls into which flows the effluent of sanitary water closets and from which effluent does not come to the surface of the ground.
Sexually Oriented Business: Any adult bookstore, adult business, an adult cabaret, adult dancing establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, adult video store, bath house and massage parlors, erotic entertainment/dance establishment, encounter center or rap establishment, or escort bureau, or introduction service as defined in the Ordinance regarding Adult Entertainment Establishments in the City of Hiram, Georgia, as adopted by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia and as amended or may be amended in the future, and the premises on which defined establishments operate or on which defined activities occur.
Shared Workspaces/Co-working Spaces: A facilitated environment which contains desks or other workspaces and facilities and is used by a recognized membership who share the site in order to interact and collaborate with each other. These spaces may or may not be occupied by individuals working for the same company or the same project at the same time.
Shopping Center: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the property and related in its location, size and type of shops to the trade area which the unit serves.
Silviculture: A branch of forestry which deals with the establishment, development, care and reproduction of stands of timber.
Slope: A degree of deviation of surface from the horizontal usually expressed in percent or degree.
Small Wireless Facility: Radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications:
A.
Each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and
B.
All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility:
1.
Electric meters;
2.
Concealment elements;
3.
Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
4.
Grounding equipment;
5.
Power transfer switches;
6.
Cut-off switches; and
7.
Vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services.
Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
Small Outdoor Entertainment Venue: An area and/or amphitheater with a stage for weekend musical or other non-sexually oriented business performances not to exceed ten performers for less than 250 patrons.
Soffit: The underside of an architectural structure such as an arch, a balcony, or overhanging eaves.
Solar Power Electric Generation (221114): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating solar electric power generation facilities. These facilities use energy from the sun to produce electric energy. The electric energy produced in these establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.
Special Exception Use: A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant to its operation or installation, is permitted in a district subject to review and sign off by the zoning administrator or his or her designee that the site-specific requirements for maintaining such special exception use are met, and subject to special requirements, as set forth in the specific zoning district section. The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall maintain a written record of such review and sign off, which shall be a public record.
Special Use Permit: A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon approval by the City Council in accordance with provisions of this Ordinance.
Specialty Food Retailers (4452): This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of food.
Sporting Goods, Hobby, Musical Instrument, and Book Retailers (459): Industries in the Sporting Goods, Hobby, Musical Instrument, and Book Stores subsector are engaged in retailing and providing expertise on the use of sporting equipment or supplies for other specific leisure activities, such as needlework and musical instruments. Book stores are also included in this subsector.
Storage Yards: The use of land to store material, equipment, or vehicles, and any structures associated with the outdoor storage.
Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it, the space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be counted as a story if its ceiling is over six feet above the average level of the finished ground surface adjoining exterior walls of such story, or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes.
Street: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, road, boulevard, highway, expressway, lane, alley or other way.
Street, Alley: A minor way, public or private, used for service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Street, Boulevard: A divided street designed to handle traffic volumes in excess of normal neighborhood traffic generation that is configured as a divided street with one or two lanes of traffic in each direction separated by a raised median.
Street, Cul-de-sac: A minor street having one end open to traffic and the other end terminated with a turn-around radius, i.e. circle for turning around at the end.
Street, Dead End: A stub street in a subdivision which may at a later time be continued into another portion of the subdivision.
Street, Interstate: A street shown on the GDOT Functional Classification Application ( https://itos.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=962a2591f91a4303aeafe016ba8db96b ) which provides divided highways with full control of access, offering the highest level of mobility.
Street, Local: A street shown on the GDOT Functional Classification Application ( https://itos.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=962a2591f91a4303aeafe016ba8db96b ) which provides access to residential and non-residential developments.
Street, Major Collector: A street shown on the GDOT Functional Classification Application ( https://itos.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=962a2591f91a4303aeafe016ba8db96b ) which provides collection and distribution of traffic between minor collectors or local roads and arterial streets.
Street, Minor Collector: A street shown on the GDOT Functional Classification Application ( https://itos.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=962a2591f91a4303aeafe016ba8db96b ) which provides collection of traffic from surrounding local roads to permit convenient movement of traffic.
Street, Principal Arterial: A street shown on the GDOT Functional Classification Application ( https://itos.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=962a2591f91a4303aeafe016ba8db96b ) which provides primary function of efficient movement of through traffic between and around areas of a City or County often with limited controlled access.
Street, Residential: A street which provides circulation and access to abutting property in residential areas.
Streetscape: All physical elements that may be viewed along a street.
Street Fairs: Temporary provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, or similar, temporary activities not requiring the use of roofed structures.
Street Furniture and Tree Planting Zone: The portion of a continuous sidewalk located immediately adjacent to the curb reserved for the placement of street trees and street furniture including utility-and-light poles, waste-receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs, traffic control boxes, newspaper boxes, transit shelters, bicycle racks, seating and similar elements in a manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility. Such elements, where installed, shall be a type specified by the manager of the Community Development Department in accordance with uniform design standards utilized by the manager for placement of such objects in the public right-of-way.
Subdivision:
A.
(verb). Any division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy or building development. This includes all division of land involving a new street or change in existing streets and includes re-subdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided; provided, however, that the following are not included within this definition:
1.
The combination or re-combination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in these regulations.
2.
The division of land into parcels of ten acres or more where all of such parcels have frontage on a City maintained road; provided, however, in such cases a final plat shall be submitted to the development control committee for approval.
B.
(noun). Where appropriate to the context, the term "subdivision" also may be used in reference to the aggregate of all lots held in common ownership at the time of division.
Substantial Progress: The documented installation of physical project improvements valued at 50% or more of the total project cost. Physical improvements include, but are not limited to the installation of utilities, stormwater facilities, roadways, construction of structures, or renovation of existing structures. Total project cost may be confined to the phase of a project represented on an approved site plan.
Support Activities for Rail Transportation (488210): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized services for railroad transportation including servicing, routine repairing (except factory conversion, overhaul, or rebuilding of rolling stock), and maintaining rail cars; loading and unloading rail cars; and operating independent terminals.
Taxi Services (485310): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing passenger transportation by automobile or van, not operated over regular routes and on regular schedules. Establishments of taxicab owner/operators, taxicab fleet operators, or taxicab organizations are included in this industry.
Technical and Trade Schools (6115). This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering courses in office procedures and secretarial and stenographic skills and may offer courses in basic office skills, such as word processing. In addition, these establishments may offer such classes as office machine operation, reception, communications, and other skills designed for individuals pursuing a clerical or secretarial career. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.
Telephone Call Centers (56142): This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in answering telephone calls and relaying messages and (2) establishments primarily engaged in providing telemarketing services, such as promoting products or services by telephone; taking orders by telephone, facsimile, email, or other communication modes; and soliciting contributions or providing information by telephone. Telephone call centers provide these services on behalf of clients and do not own the products or provide the services that they are representing, or they serve other establishments of the same enterprise.
Temporary Impound Lot: An establishment used for the short-term storage of damaged or confiscated vehicles.
Tent: A temporary or permanent structure having a roof and/or walls of fabric.
Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters (711110): This industry comprises (1) companies, groups, or theaters primarily engaged in producing the following live theatrical presentations: musicals; operas; plays; and comedy, improvisational, mime, and puppet shows and (2) establishments, commonly known as dinner theaters, engaged in producing live theatrical productions and in providing food and beverages for consumption on the premises. Theater groups or companies may or may not operate their own theater or other facility for staging their shows.
Tobacco, Electronic Cigarette, and Other Smoking Supplies Retailers (459991): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, pipes, and other smokers' supplies.
Topography: The physical land surface relief describing the terrain elevation and slope.
Traditional-Style: Traditional-style houses mix various elements drawn from colonial, farmhouse and neoclassical styles. They are typically two stories in height, have symmetrically placed windows, simple rooflines, overhanging eaves, front-facing gables, large covered porches supported by columns and use building materials such as brick, wood, stucco and stone.
Trailer, Camping: Any portable structure or vehicle designed for highway travel which is used or intended to be used for either living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, and which does not include all of the following facilities: a flush water closet, a lavatory, a bath or shower, and kitchen sink.
Transportation Equipment Manufacturing (336999): This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing transportation equipment (except motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, boats, ships, railroad rolling stock, aerospace products, motorcycles, bicycles, armored vehicles and tanks).
Tree: Any living, self-supporting, woody perennial plant which normally obtains a trunk diameter of at least two inches and a height of at least ten feet and typically has one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Truck Transportation (484): Industries in the Truck Transportation subsector provide over-the-road transportation of cargo using motor vehicles, such as trucks and tractor trailers. The subsector is subdivided into general freight trucking and specialized freight trucking. This distinction reflects differences in equipment used, type of load carried, scheduling, terminal, and other networking services. General freight transportation establishments handle a wide variety of general commodities, generally palletized, and transported in a container or van trailer. Specialized freight transportation is the transportation of cargo that, because of size, weight, shape, or other inherent characteristics, requires specialized equipment for transportation.
Trucking Terminals, Independently Operated (488490): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services (except motor vehicle towing) to road network users.
Used Merchandise Retailers (except Flea Markets) (459510): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing used merchandise, antiques, and secondhand goods (except motor vehicles, such as automobiles, RVs, motorcycles, and boats; motor vehicle parts; tires; and mobile homes).
Utilities: Public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, storm water systems and railroads.
Variance: A modification of the literal provisions of this ordinance which the Zoning Board of Appeals is permitted to grant when strict enforcement of said provisions would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the variance is sought.
Virtual Kitchens: A food service establishment with minimal on-site work space, that delivers food directly to patrons. A virtual kitchen establishments have a kitchen on-site, no patron seating available on-site may or may not have space on-site dedicated to facilitating deliveries (management office, administrative office, break room, etc.).
Waste Treatment and Disposal (56221): This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating waste treatment or disposal facilities (except sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities) or (2) the combined activity of collecting and/or hauling of waste materials within a local area and operating waste treatment or disposal facilities. Waste combustors or incinerators (including those that may produce byproducts, such as electricity), solid waste landfills, and compost dumps are included in this industry.
Water, Potable: Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe for human consumption.
Water Supply Watershed: The drainage area (watershed) of lands upstream of a governmentally-owned public drinking water intake or water supply reservoir.
Wine: Any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Yard: An open space on the same lot with a principal building open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
Yard, Front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, Rear: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to side lines of the lot.
Yard, Side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, situated between the building and the side lot line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
Zoning Administrator: The Director of the Community Development Department or his/her designated representative.
Zoning Board of Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals of Paulding County, Georgia.
Zoning District: Refers to the zoning designation of parcels of land as per Chapter 210 of this UDO.
Zoning Ordinance: The zoning regulations enacted by the City Council and set forth in the UDO.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 110-50. - Definitions by Category/Chapter.
110-50.01
Reserved.
110-50.02
Reserved.
110-50.03
Reserved.
110-50.04
The following definitions are to be applied in Chapter 600, Sign Ordinance. Words and phrases used in this Chapter shall have the meanings set forth in this section. Words and phrases not defined in this section, but defined in the Title 2: Zoning of this UDO or Title 3: Development, shall be given the meanings set forth in such Title. All other words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly requires otherwise. Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this Section.
Abandoned Sign: Any sign that contains or exhibits broken panels, visible rust, visible rot, damaged support structures, or missing letters or which is otherwise dilapidated, unsightly, or unkept, and for which no person accepts maintenance responsibility. Also, any sign associated with a business that has ceased operations for 30 days or more.
Animated Sign: Any sign, or part of a sign, that uses any movement or change of lighting or color to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
Applicant: A business, company, person, or owner who formally applies for a sign application, a temporary sign, billboard for the City of Hiram.
Audible Sign: Any sign which emits a sound.
Awning/Canopy Sign: Any sign that is part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
Banner: A sign other than a flag with or without characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation applied to cloth, paper, plastic, or fabric that is intended to be hung either with a frame or without a frame. Neither flags nor canopy signs are considered banners.
Beacon: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or more.
Bootleg Sign: Sign, placard, poster, card, banner, or other indication of the interests of any person, group, business, or organization on any post, pole, fence, or tree, including, but not limited to, light and telephone poles, on any street, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or public right-of-way other than signs erected or caused to be erected by the City of Hiram.
Billboard: An off-premises, freestanding sign with an area of more than 120 square feet and not larger than 672 square feet.
Billboard Review Application (BRA): Application provided by county to review proposed signs for compliance to this chapter.
Changeable Copy Sign: Any sign that incorporates changing lights, lettering, or images to form a sign message or messages, whether such changes are accomplished electronically or manually. Any graphics and messages shall not change more than one time per minute.
Director: The City Manager or Operations Director of the City of Hiram Public Works Department, or his or her designee for a particular purpose.
Directory Sign: A single sign for multiple businesses, offices, professionals, industries, or other entities located within a planned center.
Drive-through/Drive-in Facility: A location where products and/or services are distributed to, or business is transacted with, a person seated in a motor vehicle.
Electronic Sign: A sign whose message may be changed at intervals by computer controller, microprocessor controller, or by remote control, and whose message is displayed through the use of LED, LCD, plasma, or other similar type panels or screens, including devices known as commercial electronic message signs and similar devices.
Entry Wall Sign: Any single faced sign attached to or erected and confined within the limits of an exterior wall generally along the perimeter of a development.
Fall Zone: An area equal to 133 percent of the height of the structure in every direction.
Festoon: Includes, pennants, flags, banner, streamers, inflatable devices, string so lights, figures/characters or other similar device.
Flag: Any fabric or bunting containing colors, patterns, or symbols used as a symbol of a government, entity, or other organization.
Flashing Sign: A sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant in intensity at all times when in use and which exhibits marked changes in lighting effects.
Gateway Sign: A sign approved by the City Manager or the Public Works Operations Director of the City of Hiram placed or constructed wholly or partially within right-of-way at key entry points to the City of Hiram, established communities, and other city facilities. These signs are specifically to provide unique identity and distinct characteristics of the city, community, or public facility with an overall common theme.
Height: The measure in linear feet from the highest point on an object to the unaltered elevation of the ground at the base of the object or directly beneath the object. At the election of the permit holder, the height of a sign may be measured from the highest point on the sign to the level of the nearest road from which the sign is intended to be viewed.
Home Occupation Sign: A sign for an approved home occupation on a residential parcel of land, with advertising for services or products legally offered on the premises where the sign is located.
Illuminated Sign, External: A sign illuminated by an external light source. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes, or alternates.
Illuminated Sign, Internal: A sign illuminated by an internal light source. Such source cannot be a device that changes color, flashes, or alternates.
Instructional Signs: A sign used to give direction or instruction to the public, such as, but not limited to "enter," "exit," "no parking," "drive through," "rest rooms," and so forth. Instructional signs shall be a monument sign with a sign face not to exceed four square feet in size and three feet in height.
Kiosk Sign: A free-standing and multiple sided structure owned by the City and located in public rights-of-way that displays directional information to residential and commercial developments.
LED Sign: An electronically controlled sign utilizing light-emitting diodes to form some or all of the sign message.
Marquee, Marquee Sign: Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
Menu Sign: A sign or sign structure which is fully enclosed or otherwise protected from the elements, including, but not limited to, a box, shadow box, or cabinet, attached to a wall, or freestanding, which is used generally for the purpose of displaying restaurant menus or announcements of activities within the establishment for which the menu or announcement is displayed. A menu display may be used for a restaurant without drive-through service and for transient lodging facilities which have restaurant facilities open to the general public in addition to the registered guests.
Mobile Sign: A sign which is attached to, mounted on, pasted on, painted or drawn on any vehicle (whether motorized or drawn), which is placed, parked or maintained at one particular location for the express purpose and intent of promotion.
Monument Sign: A freestanding sign mounted directly upon the ground and not attached to or a part of or supported by a building and designed in such a manner that the base of the sign face is flush with the supporting solid base which is flush with the ground. The base shall be at least as wide as the sign.
Moving Sign: A sign which revolved, rotates, swings, undulates, or otherwise attracts attention through the structural movement of parts.
Multi-tenant: One of more buildings, located on a single premises, containing two or more separate and distinct individual establishments, which occupy separate portions of the building and which are physically separated from each other by walls.
Off-premises Sign: A sign which identifies, advertises, or promotes a product, service, person, place activity, event, idea or any other thing located or obtainable elsewhere other than the lot where such sign is located and not principally sold on the lot on which it is located.
On-premises Sign: A sign which identifies advertises or promotes a product, service, person, place, activity, event, idea or any other thing located or obtainable on or at the lot where such sign is located.
Out-of-store Marketing Device: An out-of-store marketing device is any facility or equipment which is located outside of a primary building on a site zoned for non-residential uses, which is used for the primary purpose of providing a product or service at the device location without the other's or agent's immediate presence, and which is manufactured to include a color, form, graphic illumination, symbol, and/or writing thereon to communicate information regarding the product or service provided thereby to the public. Examples of out-of-sore marketing devices include: fuel pumps, bank ATM units, vending machines, newspaper racks, drink machines, ice boxes, and phone booths. Where signs integral to such out-of-store marketing devices are too small to be legible to the traveling public from rights-of-way and are otherwise non-removable without damage to the equipment's surface, they do not require a SRA and are not subject to overall sign limitations for the lot on which they appear.
Pennant, Streamer: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether containing a message of any kind or not, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
Permanent Sign: Any sign which, when installed, in intended for permanent use. A permanent freestanding sign shall be of a type and construction as not to be easily or readily removed from the lot on which it has been erected.
Permitted: Authorized in accordance with the terms of the chapter.
Person: A natural or legal person, including a firm, organization, partnership, trust, or corporation.
Portable Sign: A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to a structure, including, but not limited to, signs on trailers or signs mounted or painted on vehicles which are parked in such a manner as to serve the purpose of a sign.
Principal Building: The building in which the principal use of the lot is conducted. Non-residential lots with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings, but storage buildings, garages, and other structures with clear accessory uses shall not be considered principal buildings.
Projecting Sign: Any sign which is projected from the wall of a building or structure.
Public Sign: Any sign erected by or caused to be erected by a governmental entity including kiosk directional signs through the City of Hiram, public utility, or railroad and gateway signs.
Roof Sign: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a building, or supported by the roof structure.
Sign: Any device, fixture, placard, or structure affixed to, supported by, or suspended by a stationary object, building or the ground that uses any color, form, graphic illumination, symbol, or writing to communicate information of any kind to the public.
Signs During Vacancy: Signs permitted for developments with vacant lots, units, and/or tenant spaces.
Sign Face: That part of a sign that is or can be used for advertising purposes.
Standard Informational Sign: A sign with an area of not greater than four square feet, with a sign face made for short term use, containing no reflecting elements, flags, or projections and which, when erect, stands at a height not greater than three feet and is mounted on a stake or metal frame with a thickness or diameter not greater than one and one-half inches. Off-premises standard informational signs are prohibited. Permits are not required.
Suspended Sign: A sign which is suspended from an eave or soffit of a building. (Must provide eight or more feet of ground clearance.)
Temporary Sign: Any sign that is not permanently mounted.
Tri-vision Sign: A sign designed with a series of triangular slats that mechanically rotate in sequence with one another to show three different sign messages in rotation.
Wall Sign: Any sign attached parallel to a wall, painted, on the wall surface or erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or building and which displays only one sign surface. No wall sign shall extend more than 12 inches from any wall, building, or structure.
Window Sign: Any sign that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass, either inside or outside the building, and is visible from the exterior of the structure.
Zoning Ordinance: The zoning regulations enacted by the City Council and set forth in Title 2 of this UDO.
110-50.05 The following definitions are to be applied in Chapter 700, Telecommunication Towers and Antennas.
Alternative Tower Structure: Manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
Antenna: Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
Governing Authority: The City Council of Hiram, Georgia.
Preexisting Towers And Antennas: The meaning set forth in Section XX article III, section A(4), of this ordinance.
Height: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured from ground level at the base of the structure to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if said highest point is an antenna.
Tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
110-50.06 The following definitions are to be applied in Chapter 710, Small Wireless Facilities and Antennas.
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings as set forth hereafter. In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, including specifically but without limitation O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-2 et seq., the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
Antenna: Means
A.
Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or
B.
Communications equipment similar to equipment described in part (A) used for the transmission, reception, or transmission and reception of surface waves. Such term shall not include television broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes. Such term shall also not include those antennas subject to Chapter 700, entitled "Telecommunications Towers and Antennas" of this UDO.
Applicable Codes: Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization to the extent such codes have been adopted by the State of Georgia or the City or are otherwise applicable in the City.
Applicant: Any person that submits an application.
Application: A written request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to:
A.
Collocate a small wireless facility in a right-of-way; or
B.
Install, modify, or replace a pole or decorative pole in a right-of-way on which a small wireless facility is or will be collocated.
Authority Pole: A pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf of the City. Such term shall not include poles, support structures, electric transmission structures, or equipment of any type owned by an electric supplier.
Collocate or Collocation: To install, mount, modify, or replace a small wireless facility on or adjacent to a pole, decorative pole, or support structure.
Communications Facility: The set of equipment and network components, including wires and cables and associated equipment and network components, used by a communications service provider to provide communications services.
Communications Service Provider: A provider of communications services.
Communications Services: Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6); telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53); information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as each such term existed on January 1, 2019; or wireless services.
Consolidated Application: An application for the collocation of multiple small wireless facilities on existing poles or support structures or for the installation, modification, or replacement of multiple poles and the collocation of associated small wireless facilities.
Decorative Pole: An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for aesthetic purposes.
Electric Supplier: Any electric light and power company subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, any electric membership corporation furnishing retail service in this state, and any municipality which furnishes such service within this state.
Eligible Facilities Request: An eligible facilities request as set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as it existed on January 1, 2019.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
Fee: A one-time, nonrecurring charge based on time and expense.
Historic District: Means
A.
Any district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the secretary of the interior of the United States in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i—v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified by 47 C.F.R. Part 1;
B.
Any area designated as a historic district under Article 2 or Chapter 10 of Title 44, the Georgia Historic Preservation Act; or
C.
Any area designated as a historic district or property by law prior to April 26, 2019.
Law: Includes any and all federal, state, or local laws, statutes, common laws, codes, rules, regulations, orders, or ordinances.
Micro Wireless Facility: A small wireless facility not larger in dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
Permit: A written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format, required to be issued by the City to initiate, continue, or complete the collocation of a small wireless facility or the installation, modification, or replacement of a pole or decorative pole upon which a small wireless facility is collocated.
Person: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
Pole: A vertical pole such as a utility, lighting, traffic, or similar pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material that is lawfully located or to be located within a right-of-way, including without limitation a replacement pole and an authority pole. Such term shall not include a support structure, decorative pole, or electric transmission structure.
Rate: A recurring charge.
Reconditioning Work: The activities associated with substantially painting, reconditioning, improving, or repairing authority poles.
Replace, Replacement Or Replacing: To replace a pole or decorative pole with a new pole or a new decorative pole, similar in design, size, and scale to the existing pole or decorative pole consistent with 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(7) as it existed on January 1, 2019, in order to address limitations of, or change requirements applicable to, the existing pole to structurally support the collocation of a small wireless facility.
Replacement Work: The activities associated with replacing an authority pole.
Right-of-Way: Means, generally, property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road; provided, however, that such term shall apply only to property or an interest therein that is under the ownership or control of the City and shall not include property or any interest therein acquired for or devoted to an interstate highway or the public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances of buildings for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of public roads or research pertaining thereto or scenic easements and easements of light, air, view and access.
Small Wireless Facility: Means radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and that meet both of the following qualifications: (i) each wireless provider's antenna could fit within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume; and (ii) all other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility: electric meters; concealment elements; telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer switches; cut-off switches; and vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services. Such term shall not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under, or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic, or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
State: The State of Georgia.
Support Structure: A building, billboard, water tank, or any other structure to which a small wireless facility is or may be attached. Such term shall not include a decorative pole, electric transmission structure, or pole.
Wireless Infrastructure Provider: Any person, including a person authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state, that builds, installs, or operates small wireless facilities, poles, decorative poles, or support structures on which small wireless facilities are or are intended to be used for collocation but that is not a wireless services provider.
Wireless Provider: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
Wireless Services: Any services provided to the public using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
Wireless Services Provider: A person that provides wireless services.
Wireline Backhaul Facility: An aboveground or underground wireline facility used to transport communications data from a telecommunications demarcation box associated with small wireless facility to a network.
110-50.07
The following definitions are to be applied in Chapter 720, An Ordinance for a Broadband Ready Community.
As used in this article, the following terms have the following meanings as set forth hereafter. In the event that any federal or state law containing definitions used in this article is amended, including specifically but without limitation O.C.G.A. § 36-66C-2 et seq., the definition in the referenced section, as amended, shall control.
Applicant: A person applying for a permit for a broadband network project.
Broadband Network Project: Any deployment of broadband services.
Permit: Any local permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a broadband network project.
Political Subdivision: A county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or local authority.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Chapter 120. - Modifications, Waivers, Appeals and Judicial Review

Sec. 120-10. - Process.
120-10.01
This Chapter outlines the appeals process in all cases of this UDO.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 120-20. - Zoning Board of Appeals.
120-20.01
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to hear any appeal of an administrative decision of the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of Title 2, Title 4 or Title 5 of this UDO pursuant to Chapter 290.
120-20.02
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to grant variances to the terms of Title 2, Title 4 or Title 5 of this UDO pursuant to Chapter 290.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 120-30. - Development Waiver Review Committee.
120-30.01
The Development Waiver Review Committee shall have the power to hear appeals of decisions and interpretations of the Plan Review Committee, and consider variances from the Title 3 of the UDO pursuant to Chapter 395.
Sec. 120-40. - Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
120-40.01
The Paulding County Construction Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall have the power to hear any appeal of an interpretation of the City of Hiram Technical Codes by the Building Official pursuant to the Code of the City of Hiram, Georgia Chapter 10, Article I.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 120-50. - State Fire Marshal.
120-50.01
The State Fire Marshal shall have the power to hear any appeal of an interpretation of the International Fire Code by the County Fire Marshal pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12(e)(1).
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 120-60. - Judicial Review.
120-60.01
Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the Hiram City Council regarding this UDO after exhausting their administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal the decision to a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days of the date the decision by the City Council was rendered.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Chapter 130. - Enforcement and Penalties

Sec. 130-10. - Enforcement of the Unified Development Ordinance.
The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered by the City Manager, or their designees, in coordination with the Paulding County Community Development Division, and enforced in coordination with the Police Department and Code Enforcement, with the powers provided in the laws of the State of Georgia and in the charter and resolutions of the City of Hiram. For the purpose of serving citations for violations of this ordinance, such citations may be referred to the Police Department of the City of Hiram for service.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-20. - Building Permit Required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the construction of any building, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building which requires a permit in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Paulding County Community Development Department until a permit for such work has been issued.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-30. - Application for Building Permit.
All applications to the Planning and Zoning Division for building permits shall be accompanied by a site plan and survey, as applicable; however, accessory buildings located in agricultural and residential areas may be excluded if setbacks and other requirements can be determined. The site plan or survey must include:
130-30.01
The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
130-30.02
The size of the building to be erected;
130-30.03
The location of the building on the lot;
130-30.04
The location of existing structures on the lot, if any;
130-30.05
The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate;
130-30.06
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
130-30.07
The layout of off-street parking and loading spaces;
130-30.08
Such other information as may be requested for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed; and
130-30.09
Certification by the applicant that he or she has complied or will comply with the applicable health department regulations and all other applicable ordinances of the City of Hiram and Paulding County.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-40. - Violation and Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation, or any agent, servant, employee, officer, or contractor for any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision, requirement, term, or condition of this ordinance shall be subject to punishment as set forth in the City of Hiram Code Section 1-12. Each day of any violation of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense. The violation of any provision, requirement, term, or condition of this ordinance shall also constitute a nuisance and any person aggrieved thereby may abate the same or the same may be abated as a public nuisance. Continuous violation thereof may be restrained in a court of equity having jurisdiction thereof, and such remedy shall not be the exclusive remedy for any violation.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-50. - Prosecution.
Any violations of this ordinance may be tried before the Municipal Court of the City of Hiram, upon a citation. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the Municipal Court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the city officer who completes and serves it. In any case necessary, the city solicitor is designated as prosecuting attorney.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-60. - Development Inspections and Enforcement.
130-60.01
The various departments and divisions will periodically inspect the projects for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the approved construction plans. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in the permitted activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of these regulations, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he or she shall be deemed in violation of these regulations.
130-60.02
The various departments and divisions shall have the power to conduct such investigations as they may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in these regulations, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites.
130-60.03
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the City of Hiram or Paulding County who requests entry for the purpose of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative or agent while in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
130-60.04
Stop-work Orders. Upon notice from the directors, or their designees, of the various departments, work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of these regulations or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall be immediately stopped. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, his or her authorized agent or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the property, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, no written notice shall be required.
130-60.05
Bond Forfeiture and Lien. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in permitted activities has failed to comply with the approved construction plans, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person(s) engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he or she shall be deemed in violation of these regulations and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his or her bond. The Community Development Director, in conjunction with the City Attorney, may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to complete the work and bring it into compliance.
In the event that either the performance or maintenance securities fail for any reason to cover the costs of bringing a project into compliance with approved construction plans, including any deficiency as to form or execution of the securities, then all real estate of the project held by the subdivider/person is subject to being charged for the costs and such costs shall be a lien upon such real estate for the benefit of the City of Hiram, Georgia. The lien shall be filed with the records of the Paulding County Superior Court Clerk. The lien shall be assessed coequal to and enforced in the same manner as liens for state and county and city ad valorem property taxes by issuance of a fi. fa. and levy and sale as set forth in Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia. The lien shall have a duration of ten years.
130-60.06
Monetary Penalties. Any person violating any provisions of these regulations, permitting conditions, or stop-work order shall be subject to citation by the Hiram Police Department, Sheriff, deputies or any other duly authorized officer and deemed liable for a monetary penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per day, by a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding 60 days in jail, or both fine and jail, or work alternative. Each day during which the violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 130-70. - Penalties.
130-70.01
Failure to Obtain a Permit. If any person commences any activity requiring a permit as prescribed in these regulations without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his or her business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the City of Hiram. Additionally, the person shall be subject to citation by the City of Hiram Police Department, Sheriff's Deputies or any other duly authorized officer for performing activities without the required permit.
130-70.02
Monetary Penalties. Any person violating any provisions of these regulations, permitting conditions, or stop-work order shall be subject to citation by the City of Hiram Police Department, Sheriff's Deputies or any other duly authorized officer which violations shall be punishable as set forth in City of Hiram Section 1-12. Each day during which the violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Chapter 140. - Legal Status Provisions

Sec. 140-10. - Legal Status Provisions.
Whenever the regulations of this UDO require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a lower height of buildings or smaller number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards that are required in or under any other ordinance or statute, the regulations and requirements of this ordinance shall govern.
Whenever the provisions of any other statute or ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this ordinance, the provisions of such statute or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 140-20. - Severability.
If any article, section, provision or clause of any part of this UDO shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if the provisions of any part of this UDO as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to effect the portions of this UDO not so held to be invalid, or the application of this UDO to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared as the intent that this UDO would have been adopted had such invalid portion not been included herein.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
Sec. 140-30. - Effective Date.
This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption, the public welfare of the City of Hiram demanding.
ADOPTED________DAY OF ________, 2022.
EXPAND
/s/ ___________ Mayor, Hiram City Council

    ATTEST:
EXPAND
/s/ ___________ Clerk, Hiram City Council

    (Ord. No. 2023-01, § 1(Att. A), 3-7-2023)
