ARTICLE III. - [DEFINITIONS]

Sec. A. - Interpretations.
For the purpose of interpreting this Ordinance, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows: Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular. The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, corporation, trust, and company as well as an individual. The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel." The word "building" includes the word "structure." The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied." The word "maps", "zoning map", or "Hiram Zoning Map" means the "Official Zoning Maps of Hiram, Georgia."
Sec. B. - Definitions.
Except as specifically defined herein all words used in this Ordinance shall carry their customary meaning as defined by a standard dictionary.
(1)
Accessory building or structure: A building or structure subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot or property and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, provided any such structure or building is built with or after the construction of the principal building. Where an accessory building or structure is attached to the principal building in a substantial manner, as by a wall or roof, such accessory building or structure shall be considered part of the principal building.
(2)
Accessory retail uses: Retail sales and services accessory to the operation of an office building or institutional use, motel, hotel, apartment development, conducted wholly within the building housing the use to which such activities are accessory, provided that the floor space used or to be used for such secondary uses shall be limited to a total of twenty-five (25) square feet per dwelling unit in an apartment development or twenty-five (25) square feet per room in a hotel or motel, or ten (10) percent of the net floor area in an office building or institutional use, and provided that:
a.
Every public entrance to such a use shall be from a lobby, hallway or other interior portion of the primary use structure;
b.
No show window, advertising, or display shall be visible from the exterior of the primary use structure; and
c.
No merchandise shall be stored or displayed outside of the primary use structure.
However, the requirements of (1) and (2) above shall not apply to restaurants and cafeterias secondary to a hotel or motel and office building or institutional use; these secondary uses may be located in a structure other than the primary use structure. The following secondary uses are permitted: barbershops, beauty shops, laundry and dry cleaning pickup and distribution stations and other similar personal service establishments; drugstores; bookstores; florists; convenience food stores; gift shops; cafeterias and restaurants; private clubs; laundry facilities for the convenience of residents; newsstands. However, the total net floor space for such secondary building or structure uses shall be limited to six thousand (6,000) square feet.
(3)
Accessory uses: Uses subordinate to the principal use or building on a lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, provided any such use is established with or after the construction of the principal building. Such uses include: garbage pads, heating and air conditioning units, Jacuzzis, tennis courts, swimming pools (private), playhouses, playgrounds, and the like.
(4)
Adult entertainment establishment: Any adult bookstore, adult business, adult dancing establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult hotel or motel, adult motion picture arcade, adult video store, bath house and massage parlors, erotic entertainment/dance establishment, encounter center or rap establishment, or escort bureau, or introduction service as defined in the Ordinance regarding Adult Entertainment Establishments in the City of Hiram, Georgia, as adopted by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia and as amended or may be amended in the future, and the premises on which defined establishments operate or on which defined activities occur.
(5)
Agriculture: Land shall be considered used for agriculture if the raising of crops or animals is a principal use of the property.
(6)
Agricultural farm stand: A structure not greater than one thousand (1,000) square feet for the sale and display of farm products raised on premises.
(7)
Agricultural produce stand: A structure not greater than one thousand (1,000) square feet for the purpose of seasonal sales of agricultural products.
(8)
Alley: A public or private way, at the rear of side of property, permanently reserved as a means of secondary vehicular access to abutting property. Frontage on said alley shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements of this ordinance related to frontage on a dedicated street.
(9)
Ancillary retail sales (industrial districts): Retail sale of goods and services which is secondary in nature to the primary industrial use of the property in so much that the goods for sale have been produced on site or are in storage at the site for planned distribution to other areas. The ancillary retail sale of goods shall only be conducted as part of the permitted industrial use and shall not be a free-standing business.
(10)
Animal shows: Exhibitions of domestic or large animals for a maximum of seven (7) days.
(11)
Arcade: A building or part of a building in which five (5) or more pinball machines, video games, or other children's rides or other similar player-operated amusement devices are maintained, not including a commercial recreation restaurant.
(12)
Automobile service station (gas, filling station): A building or structure used for the retail sale and dispensing of fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories, and supplies, including installation and minor services customarily incidental thereto; facilities for washing and for chassis and gear lubrication of vehicles are permitted if enclosed in a building.
(13)
Automotive paint and body repair shops: An establishment for restoring auto bodies, painting, or refinishing with all activities carried on entirely within an enclosed building.
(14)
Automotive repair: Any building, premises, and land in which or upon a business, service, or industry involving the maintenance, servicing, repair, or painting of vehicles is conducted or rendered; provided such activities must be conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building.
(15)
Automotive salvage and wrecking yards: Any place where two or more motor vehicles not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
(16)
Basement: A portion of the building partly underground which has more than one-half (½) of its height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the adjoining ground; and not deemed a story unless the ceiling is six (6) feet or more above the grade.
(17)
Bed and breakfast facility: Overnight accommodations and a morning meal in a dwelling unit provided to transients for compensation; and provided the proprietor of the dwelling resides on the premises.
(18)
Bio-medical waste transfer and disposal facility: A facility engineered and designed for the collection and/or transfer of bio-medical waste products such as used gauze, syringes, needles, bandages, test-tubes, surgical wastes from a collector vehicle to a larger transport vehicle to another destination for incineration or disposal.
(19)
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
(20)
Board of Commissioners: The Board of Commissioners of Paulding County, Georgia.
(21)
Board of Zoning Appeals: The Zoning Board of Appeals of Paulding County, Georgia.
(22)
Boarding house: A building, house, or portion thereof, where persons reside and meals are provided to persons, who are not members of the operator's family, for compensation.
(23)
Buffer: A barrier which is created by the use of trees or other acceptable plant or vegetative material alone or in combination with berms, fencing, or walls used to physically separate or screen one use or property from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, and/or dissimilar uses.
(24)
Buffer, natural/undisturbed: An existing natural barrier which contains a stand of evergreen trees or other acceptable vegetative material with a density or intensity which in the opinion of the Planning staff meets the intent of the definition of buffer.
(25)
Buffer, planted/landscaped: A planted natural barrier which contains a stand of evergreen trees or other acceptable vegetative material with a density or intensity which in the opinion of the Planning staff meets the intent of the definition of buffer.
(26)
Building: Any structure designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals or personal property of any kind.
(27)
Building, accessory: See Accessory Building or Structure.
(28)
Building height (height of structure or building) :: The vertical distance measured from the grade at the structure to the highest point of the underside of the ceiling beams, in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean level of the underside of the rafters between the eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
(29)
Building, principa:l A building in which is conducted the main use of the lot on which said building is located.
(30)
Caliper: The diameter of a tree measured at a point 4 and ½ feet above natural grade.
(31)
Car wash: A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles are washed with the use of a chain conveyor and blower, automated or mechanized washers, or hand-held steam-cleaning device.
(32)
Christmas tree sales: Retail sales of Christmas trees between Thanksgiving and December twenty-sixth (26th).
(33)
Church: A place where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
(34)
City: City of Hiram, Georgia
(35)
City Council: The Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia
(36)
City Hall: The Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
(37)
City Manager: The City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager of City of Hiram, Georgia.
(38)
Circuses and carnivals: Provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, animal exhibitions or similar activities in a tent or other temporary structure for a maximum of seven (7) days. This classification excludes events conducted in a permanent entertainment facility.
(39)
Clinic: A "medical or dental clinic" is an organization of specializing physicians or dentists, or both, who have their offices in a common building. A clinic shall include laboratory facilities in conjunction with normal clinic services.
(40)
Club or lodge: Building and facilities owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons for a social, educational or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
(41)
Commercial indoor recreation uses: Indoor recreational uses such as bowling alleys, driving ranges, batting cages, shooting ranges, and the like.
(42)
Commercial outdoor recreation uses: Outdoor recreation uses such as baseball and softball batting cages, shooting ranges, miniature golf, putt-putt golf, and the like.
(43)
Commercial recreation restaurant: Any establishment which provides as a principal use the combination of family-oriented recreation and on-premises dining where neither the recreation nor the on-premises dining is clearly accessory or incidental to the operation of the other. It may include but is not limited to:
a.
Television and motion pictures;
b.
Sound and sight systems;
c.
Mechanical and/or electronic operated games (subject to applicable licensing requirements);
d.
Animated mechanical devices and/or rides; and
e.
Live entertainment.
(44)
Commission: Board of Commissioners of Paulding County, Georgia
(45)
Community Development: The Department of Community Development, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(46)
Community fair: A festival or fair provided that any activity is conducted at least two hundred (200) feet from any property line; any event shall not exceed twenty-one (21) days.
(47)
Conditional zoning: The imposition of conditions in the grant of a rezoning application which are in addition to or different from the regulations set forth in this Ordinance and which are related to the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare and designed to minimize the negative impact on surrounding lands. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, restrictions on land use, height, setbacks, and other non-use requirements, physical improvements to the property, and infrastructure serving the property.
(48)
Condominium: A building, or group of buildings, in which dwelling units or floor area are owned individually, and the structure, common areas, and facilities are owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis; subject to all applicable provisions of Georgia law.
(49)
Conference center: A facility used for conferences and seminars, with accommodations for sleeping, food preparation and eating, recreation, entertainment, resource facilities, and meeting rooms.
(50)
Congregate personal care home: A home for adults in a family type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to sixteen (16) persons subject to licensing by the Georgia Department of Human Resources as well as applicable licensing by the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, and inspection requirements, including State of Georgia Fire Marshal or the Paulding County, Georgia Fire Department approval.
(51)
Corral: A small enclosure for restricting animals as distinguished from a fence.
(52)
Continuing care retirement community: An age-restricted development that provides a continuum of accommodations and care, from independent living to long-term bed care; also known as Assisted Living Community.
(53)
Convenience food store with self-service fuel sales: Any retail establishment offering for sale automotive fuels, pre-packaged food products, beverages, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the same. Further there shall be no automotive repairs done on site.
(54)
Council: Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
(55)
County: Paulding County, Georgia and/or the Chairman and Board of Commissioners of Paulding County, Georgia.
(56)
County Planner: The manager of the Planning and Zoning Division of Paulding County, Georgia, or his/her designated representative.
(57)
Cultural facilities: Establishments that document the social and religious structures and intellectual and artistic manifestations that characterize a society and include museums, art galleries, botanical and zoological gardens, and such similar uses of a historic, educational, or cultural interest.
(58)
Curve: Any potion of a street right-of-way layout that is not straight or has an arc.
(59)
Day care:
a.
In-home day care: Child care provided within a dwelling subject to the following limitations:
i.
The dwelling must be the primary residence of the child care provider;
ii.
The child care provider is authorized to provide care to a maximum of six (6) children, paying or non-paying, under 18 years of age whose parents or guardians are not residents in the same dwelling as the child care provider.
iii.
The child care shall not create a nuisance to immediately adjacent property owners;
iv.
Off-street parking must be provided for child pick-up and drop-off;
v.
No person other than a resident of the dwelling may be employed in the in-home day care unless so required by the State Department of Human Resources, of the State of Georgia.
vi.
Must possess and provide to the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, a copy of the current registration/license by the Department of Human Resources, of the State of Georgia.
vii.
Must possess a current Occupational Tax Certificate issued by the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, with approval by the Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia.
viii.
Children attending the day care are not housed overnight at the day care home
b.
Group day care home: A place operated by any person(s), partnership, association, or corporation wherein care is provided to not less than seven (7) nor more than eighteen (18) children, paying or non-paying, under eighteen (18) years of age for less than twenty-four (24) hours without transfer of legal custody. Must possess and provide to the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, a copy of the current registration/license by the Department of Human Resources, of the State of Georgia, and must possess a current Occupational Tax Certificate issued by the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, with approval by the State Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia.
c.
Day care center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group wherein care is provided, fewer than 24 hours per day without transfer of legal custody, to 19 or more children, paying or non-paying, under 18 years of age. Must possess and provide to Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, a copy of the current registration/license by the Georgia Department of Human Resources, and must possess a current Occupational Tax Certificate issued by the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, with approval by the State Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department of Paulding County, Georgia.
(60)
Deck: A roofless accessory attached or detached platform without exterior walls, generally constructed of wood, which adjoins a residence. Rails or safety features shall not be deemed to be exterior walls.
(61)
Designated recycling collection location: A location operated or sanctioned by the local government which may contain metal or heavy-duty plastic containers, bins, or dumpsters designed for short-term holding of pre-bagged recyclable items such as tin, aluminum, glass, and paper (no perishable or food items allowed) for scheduled minimum monthly pickup with no on-premises sorting. The center must be maintained in a safe, clean, neat, and sanitary fashion and must meet the approval of the applicable Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, provided:
a.
Such location shall be visually screened and maintained.
b.
Such location shall be within the building setbacks unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Division, of the Board of Commissioners' of Paulding County, Georgia, due to topography, safety, internal traffic flow, site distance, or for other site-related circumstances not created by the property owner.
(62)
Development Regulations: Refers to the Development Regulations of Paulding County, Georgia which are incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(63)
Drive-in establishment: An establishment which is designed to provide, either wholly or in part, service to customers while in their automobiles parked upon the premises.
(64)
Dwelling: A building designed, arranged, or used for permanent living quarters for one or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit or family.
(65)
Easement: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity, and recorded in the offices of the Clerk of Superior Court, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(66)
Exotic and/or Wild Animals: Any monkey or other non-human primate, such as a raccoon, skunk, wolf, squirrel, fox, leopard, panther, tiger, rodent, wolf-hybrids, and reptiles, including, but not limited to crocodiles, alligators, snakes, caiman, and gavials, and any other animal so designated by the Animal Control Division, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(67)
Extended Stay Hotel/Motel: Any hotel or motel which more than ten percent (10%) of the units include kitchenettes or kitchen facilities within the suite. For the purpose of this Ordinance, kitchenettes or kitchen facilities are defined as a kitchen sink, a stove/cook top, and/or microwave, and a refrigerator.
(68)
Family: An individual; or two or more persons related by blood, legal adoption or marriage within the third degree of consanguinity or within the second degree of affinity, and no more than two other persons who are not related within the third degree of consanguinity or within the second degree of affinity. The degree of consanguinity or affinity is computed by the civil law method. An individual's relatives within the third degree of consanguinity are the individual's parent or child (relatives in the first degree); brother, sister, grandparent or grandchild (relatives in the second degree); and great-grandparent, great-grandchild, aunt who is a sister of a parent of the individual, uncle who is a brother of a parent of the individual, nephew who is a child of a brother or sister of the individual, or niece who is a child of a brother or sister of the individual (relatives in the third degree). Two individuals are related to each other by affinity if they are married to each other as defined by O.C.G.A. § 19-3-3.1 or the spouse of one of the individuals is related by consanguinity to the other individual. A husband and wife are related to each other in the first degree by affinity. For other relationships by affinity, the degree of relationship is the same as the degree of the underlying relationship by consanguinity.
(69)
Family care home: A home with support personnel that provide room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services in a family environment for up to nine (9) resident handicapped persons who because of a temporary or permanent physical, emotional, or mental disability, including but not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances, and orthopedic impairments, desire a substitute home; provided that persons with any of the following categories shall not be eligible for admission to a family care home: (a) mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others; (b) persons who are not handicapped persons, excluding supervisory personnel for the handicapped. As used herein, the term "handicapped" shall mean having: (a) a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one (1) or more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of living independently; (b) a record of having such an impairment; or (c) being regarded as having such an impairment.
Facilities of this nature must meet applicable United States of America Federal, State of Georgia, Board of Commissioners' of Paulding County, Georgia, and/or Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia licensing and inspection requirements, including State Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia approval.
(70)
Family personal care home: A home for adults and support personnel in a family type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two through nine persons, subject to licensing by the Georgia Department of Human Resources as well as applicable Paulding County, Georgia, and City of Hiram, Georgia, licensing and inspection requirements, including State Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia approval.
(71)
Federal: The Government of the United States of America
(72)
Floor area (space), gross: The gross horizontal area of the several floors of a building, exclusive of garages, basements, open porches, and equipment and service areas measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls of a building.
(73)
Floor area (space), net: The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior vehicular parking or loading; and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or intended to be used for human habitation or service to the public.
(74)
Floor Area Ratio: The gross floor area of all buildings or structures on a lot divided by the total lot area.
(75)
Fraternity or sorority house: A dwelling maintained exclusively for members of a social fraternity or sorority affiliated with an academic or professional college or university, or other recognized institution of higher learning.
(76)
Frontage, lot: The distance for which the front property line of the lot and the street line are coincident.
(77)
Garage: A structure or any portion thereof used or intended to be used for the parking and storage of one or more automobiles.
(78)
Garage, repair: See Automotive repair.
(79)
Golf course: A tract of land laid out for at least nine holes for playing the game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards and that may include a clubhouse and shelter.
(80)
Golf driving range: A tract of land dedicated to driving of golf balls off tees into a designated landing area.
(81)
Governing Authority: The Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia.
(82)
Grade: An average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building or structure.
(83)
Group home: A dwelling shared by nine (9) or less persons, excluding resident staff, who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long-term, family-like environment in which staff persons provide care, education/training, and participation in community activities for the residents with the primary goal of enabling the residents to live as independently as possible in order to reach their maximum potential, subject to applicable State, Federal, and/or County incensing and inspection requirements, including State Fire Marshal and/or County Fire Department approval. Congregate Group Home: same as above but consists of more than nine (9) persons.
(84)
Group personal care home: A home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), non-institutional in character, which offers care to ten (10) through sixteen (16) persons, subject to applicable United States of America Federal, State of Georgia, or Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, licensing and inspection requirements including Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia, approval.
(85)
Guest house: Guest houses are accessory buildings limited to one (1) such structure per lot and shall not include manufactured, mobile or modular structures. The minimum lot size is two (2) acres and shall be limited to the total area of all structures (existing and proposed) to be not more than twenty (20) percent of the total lot area. The guest house requires a Special Use Permit and is subject to the following at minimum:
a.
An approved Special Use Permit issued by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, and any stipulations imposed must be observed.
b.
A minimum heated floor area of 800 square feet.
c.
Septic system approval by State Environmental Health;
d.
It shall be used by a bona fide non-paying guest or relative of the occupants of the principal residence, and shall not be rented or leased.
e.
It shall not be sold as a separate unit from the principal residence.
f.
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with this Ordinance.
g.
All applicable permits shall be obtained.
(86)
Handicapped: With respect to a person, means having:
a.
A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of living independently;
b.
A record of having such an impairment; or
c.
Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance.
(87)
Heavy industry: Industrial uses that meet the standards and or requirements established in this Ordinance.
(88)
Heavy manufacturing establishment: Manufacturing establishments, other than those classified as light manufacturing, including those involving the conversion of raw materials into usable finished products, provided that manufacturing that will generate liquid waste from the manufacturing process or air pollutants shall comply with anti-pollution standards established by the Federal, State, and/or County as applicable.
(89)
HOA: Homeowners' Association.
(90)
Home occupation: See home office, residential business, or rural business.
a.
Home office: An office use conducted entirely within a dwelling which is carried on by the occupant thereof and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes subject to the following standards:
i.
No more than one room of the dwelling may be used for the home office. The home office shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling.
ii.
The appearance of the dwelling shall not be altered or the occupation within the residence shall not be conducted in a manner that would cause the premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, or the emission of sounds, vibrations, or other conditions that carry beyond the premises.
iii.
The use shall not be visibly evident from outside the dwelling.
iv.
The use shall not generate nuisances such as on-street parking, electrical interference, hazards, noise, or other nuisances.
v.
Traffic generation for the dwelling with a home office shall not exceed that normally generated without a home office.
vi.
The use shall not include any business which involves the sale, manufacture, or repair of merchandise on the premises or the storage of inventory, raw materials, or other materials to be used in the business. This does not apply to a mail order type business which has no on-site customers.
vii.
The use shall include no more than two (2) clients per hour frequenting the services of the home office; however, during peak seasons (for example Certified Public Accounts), up to eight (8) clients per hour are permitted.
viii.
The use shall not involve any outside operations or outside storage or display of products or materials.
ix.
Only residents of the dwelling may be employed in the home office, except one incidental employee other than a resident of the dwelling is permitted.
x.
One business vehicle is permitted. The vehicle shall be no larger in size than a pick-up truck, panel truck, or van, and is limited in size to one-ton carrying capacity. No other larger business vehicles or equipment are permitted (such as tractor trailers, semi-trucks, or heavy equipment).
xi.
Pickups from and deliveries to the site in regard to the business shall be limited to vehicles having no more than two axles and shall be restricted to no more than two pickups or deliveries per day.
b.
Residential Business: An occupation or business which is conducted entirely within a dwelling, or customary accessory building, is carried on by the occupant(s) of the dwelling, is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential dwelling purposes, and which can only be conducted subject to approval of a Land Use Permit by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia. Residential businesses are subject to the following standards:
i.
The residential business shall not include the repair and/or maintenance of motor vehicles, large scale manufacturing, or any use which will create noise, noxious odors, or any hazard that may endanger the health, safety, or welfare of the neighborhood.
ii.
If the residential business involves group instruction or group assembly on the premises, the proposed size of group(s) shall be specified at the time of application for Land Use Permit.
iii.
The occupation or profession must be conducted entirely within the dwelling or accessory structure.
iv.
The dwelling must be the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner at the time of the application, and, if approved, the residential business shall be valid only as long as the original principal practitioner resides in the dwelling, is conducting the business, and has a current business license.
v.
The residential business shall be limited to no more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling. The proposed size of the residential business shall be specified at the time of application for Land Use Permit.
vi.
Any additions or alterations to the dwelling which will be used for the residential business must be of an architectural style in keeping with the surrounding residential and agricultural development.
vii.
Only two (2) employees in excess of family members who are residing on the premises shall be permitted. For uses where no customers or clients are coming to the site, the number of employees permitted at any one time may be increased to three (3).
viii.
Parking for customers/clients must be provided in accordance with this Ordinance, location of the parking to be specified in the Land Use Permit Application.
ix.
Reserved.
x.
No outside storage or display shall be allowed other than as specified herein.
xi.
Days and operation requiring access by the public, customers, vendors, and/or clients shall be Monday through Saturday, daylight hours only.
xii.
No more than one residential business or rural business is allowed per residence.
xiii.
'One commercial vehicle is permitted to be parked in the approved parking area. The commercial vehicle is limited to a passenger car, a van, or a light truck (up to one ton), or a personal business vehicle up to 1½ tons.
xiv.
Any utility trailer or other accessory equipment needed for the orderly operation of the business must be specifically requested and approved by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia. The request must include the proposed use and size of the trailer or accessory equipment.
xv.
Pickups from and deliveries to the site in regard to the business shall be restricted to vehicles having no more than two (2) axles and shall be restricted to no more than two (2) pickups or deliveries per day. The pickups and deliveries are restricted to daylight hours only and shall not restrict traffic circulation.
xvi.
There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products, provided however that incidental retail sales may be made in connection with the permitted residential business. Also permitted is the sale of articles which have been produced or assembled on the premises, and the sale of items that are primarily shipped directly to the ultimate purchaser, provided that no retail inventory is maintained on the premises.
c.
Rural business: An occupation or business which is conducted within a dwelling, an accessory structure, or outside, and which is carried on by a resident of the property, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for the residential dwelling purposes, and which can only be conducted subject to approval of a Land Use Permit by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia. Rural businesses may be less restrictive than a residential business in regard to access by the public, size, visibility, number of employees, and types of businesses. Rural businesses are subject to the following standards:
i.
The minimum acreage requirement is three (3) acres.
ii.
The applicant must state what the proposed business will be and must submit a site plan/floor plan showing the area to be involved in the business as part of the Land Use Permit application.
iii.
The dwelling must be the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner at the time of the application, and, if approved, the rural business shall be valid only as long as the original principal practitioner resides in the dwelling, is conducting the business, and has a current business license.
iv.
The business may include small repair shops for appliances, machinery, farm equipment, or automobiles with the following limitations: (1) they shall not create noise, noxious odors, or any hazard which would adversely affect the health, safety, or welfare of the adjoining property owners or the neighborhood in general; (2) they shall operate during the daylight hours only; (3) outdoor storage of inoperable machinery, equipment, or vehicles is prohibited; (4) no more than two vehicles shall actually be serviced, actively worked on, or repaired at any one time; (5) all spare parts (new or used) shall be stored within a structure, and the storage space shall be included in the total space allocated for the rural business; and (6) all work shall be done within a fully enclosed building.
v.
The business is limited to no more than one-thousand (1,000) square feet if in an accessory structure, and one-thousand (1,000) square feet of land if outside a structure. Outside operations or outside storage or display must be specified in the Land Use Permit application and shall be maintained as specified therein. If the rural business is to be in the residence, no more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the gross floor area may be used for the business. The proposed size of the business shall be specified at the time of application.
vi.
Any additions or alterations to the residence which will be used for the rural business must be of an architectural style in keeping with the surrounding residential and agricultural development. Any structure built to house the rural business must be located to the side or rear of the residence, or if the structure would be in front of the residence, it must be at least one hundred (100) feet from the front property line in addition to meeting the applicable side and rear setbacks. The structure must be readily and easily usable for customary agriculture and residential uses.
vii.
Any outside area other than parking in which the business is conducted shall be enclosed in a manner that the business is not visible from the surrounding property by providing a buffer and/or fence (see buffer section). No equipment which would not ordinarily be found in agricultural or residential use may be used in the rural business.
viii.
Only two employees in excess of family members who are residing on the premises shall be permitted. For uses where no customers or clients are coming to the site, the number of employees permitted at any one time may be increased to three.
ix.
Parking for customers/clients must be provided in accordance with this Ordinance with location specified in the Land Use Permit application.
x.
Reserved.
xi.
Days and operation requiring access by the public, customers, vendors, and/or clients shall be Monday through Saturday, daylight hours only.
xii.
No more than one residential business or rural business is allowed.
xiii.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, may place any reasonable stipulations on the application deemed necessary to insure the orderly operation of the proposed business and its compatibility with the surrounding properties.
(91)
Homeowners' Association: The organizational body of homeowners of a subdivision that governs the by-laws and covenants of the subdivision, and has lien authority that allows for the collection of dues and fines.
(92)
Hospital: An institution providing primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and including, as an integral part of the institution, related facilities, such as laboratories, outpatient facilities, training facilities, medical offices, and staff residences, subject to applicable State of Georgia, United States of America Federal, or Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, licensing and inspection requirements including Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia, approval.
(93)
Hotel: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided for at least fifteen (15) transient guests, and offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all hours, and may include additional services such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment, and recreation facilities. The units which may include kitchenettes or kitchen facilities are limited to ten percent (10%). For the purpose of this Ordinance, kitchenettes or kitchen facilities are defined as a kitchen sink, a stove/cook top, and/or microwave, and a refrigerator.
(94)
Junk vehicle: Any vehicle which is designed to move or draw any person or property which cannot be moved by its own power and which does not have a current registration or licensure.
(95)
Junk yard: Any such use involving the storage or disassembly of wrecked automobiles, junk vehicles, trucks, or other vehicles; storage, baling or otherwise dealing in bones, animal hides, scrap metal, commercial/residential appliances, used paper, used cloth, used plumbing fixtures and used brick, wood, or other building materials. Such uses shall be considered junk yards whether or not all or part of such operations are conducted inside a building or in conjunction with, addition to, or accessory to, other uses of the premises.
(96)
Kennel: Any premises where any person engages in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling animals.
(97)
Landfill: A disposal site licensed by applicable State, Federal, and/or local government employing an engineering method of disposing of solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading, compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over all exposed waste at the end of the operating day.
(98)
Land Use Permit: An official authorization for use of land not to exceed two (2) years which has been granted by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, in accord with this Ordinance.
(99)
Light automotive repair establishment: An indoor repair establishment (no outside storage) for performing light auto and small truck repair (under one (1) ton) such as brakes, oil changes, lubrication, transmission, belts, hoses, inspections, and the like.
(100)
Light manufacturing establishment: An establishment for production, processing, assembly, manufacturing, compounding, preparation, cleaning, servicing, testing, or repair of materials, goods or products; however, the manufacturing and production of any product which emits noxious noise, odor or fumes, bulk storage of flammable materials for resale, and other heavy manufacturing uses listed herein, shall not be permitted. This use shall also allow incidental on-site sale of manufactured materials only.
(101)
Live entertainment: Music, comedy, readings, dancing, acting or other entertainment, excluding adult entertainment, performed on the site. This classification includes dancing by patrons to live or recorded music.
(102)
Livestock: Cows, pigs, non-domestic animals (excluding exotic and/or wild animals), poultry, and species of the aviary family which are, or may be, raised for the purpose of providing leisure, food, transportation, or being resold or bred (excluding only dogs, cats, rabbits, fish, pet mice, hamsters, gerbils, parrots and parakeets).
(103)
Lot: A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used, developed, or built upon. A parcel of land, whether or not platted, in single ownership, and not divided by a street.
(104)
Lot, corner: A lot fronting on two streets at their intersection. When the frontage of one street exceeds the frontage of the other, the one with the least frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot. The side yard setback for a corner lot shall be twenty-five (25) feet in all zoning districts except where otherwise noted herein.
(105)
Lot, depth of: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines, measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
(106)
Lot, double frontage: Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two (2) streets.
(107)
Lot of record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court of Paulding County; or a parcel of land, the deed and/or plat of which has been recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Paulding County prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.
(108)
Lot, width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line.
(109)
Manufactured home park: A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured homes and/or mobile homes for non-transient use in accordance with requirements of this Ordinance.
(110)
Motel: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided for transient guests and offered to the motoring public for compensation in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms are made primarily direct from an exterior walkway rather than from an inside lobby. Only ten percent (10%) of the units may include kitchenettes or kitchen facilities. For the purpose of this Ordinance, kitchenettes or kitchen facilities are defined as a kitchen sink, a stove/cook top and/or microwave, and a refrigerator.
(111)
Neighborhood retail uses: Commonly found low scale and low intensity retail uses (square footages not to exceed six thousand (6,000) square feet unless noted below) that offer basic services and frequently purchased goods to the immediate surrounding residential areas such as but not limited to: antique shop, bakery, beverage shop, delicatessen, barber shop, beauty shop, hair salon, similar personal service establishments, bookstore (but not including adult bookstore), stationery store, bridal shop, clothing store, shoe repair, shoe store, tailor shop, specialty shop, camera shop, music store, china and pottery store, gift shop, dance studio, florist, hardware store (gross floor area not to exceed ten thousand (10,000) square feet total, jewelry store, meat market/butcher shop, novelty shop, variety store, toy store, paint store, pet grooming shop, pharmacy/drug store, sporting goods store, supermarket or grocery (gross floor area not to exceed fifty thousand (50,000) square feet), and video store.
(112)
Non-automotive repair uses: Commonly found low intensity repair shops such as, but not limited to, jewelry, camera, home appliance, televisions, and video cassette recorders.
(113)
Non-conforming lot: A lot (which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia; or a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia, the area, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning ordinance of the City of Hiram, Georgia, but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
(114)
Non-conforming structure or building: A structure or building, the size, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment to the zoning ordinance, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
(115)
Non-conforming use: A use or activity that was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
(116)
Non-profit riding stable: A building for the shelter and feeding of domestic animals, especially horses.
(117)
Nursing home/rest home: A home for aged or ill persons in which three (3) or more persons not of the immediate family are provided with food, shelter and care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to diagnosis and treatment, subject to applicable United States of America Federal Government, State of Georgia, and Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, licensing and inspection requirements including the Fire Marshal, of the State of Georgia, and/or Fire Department, of Paulding County, Georgia, approval.
(118)
Office service and supply establishments: Wholesale and retail commercial establishments that sell, service and supply small office equipment and supplies such as, but not limited to, stores that offer sales of copiers, facsimile machines, typewriters, ribbons, transcribers, dictation equipment, tape, staplers, and other general office equipment.
(119)
Open space: An area that is not used for or occupied by a driveway, an off-street parking area, a loading space, a yard, a refuse storage space, or a building.
(120)
Open Space Residential Development: Promotes development strategies for large tracts of land that can help communities preserve open space and natural areas in residential housing developments.
(121)
Operations manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia: Such other person, other than the City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia or the Temporary City Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia, who is appointed by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia as the City Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and Council and may be removed at any time with or without cause. The appointment of the Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia to perform any duties, requirements or actions pursuant to this Ordinance which may be performed by the City Manger or the Temporary City Manager, is specifically required in the event that the City Operations Manager is to perform such duties, requirements or actions pursuant to this Ordinance.
(122)
Ordinance: This Zoning Ordinance and all amendments thereto including the official zoning maps of the Administrative Offices of the government of the City of Hiram, Georgia, and the official Land Use Map of Paulding County, Georgia.
(123)
Other consumer goods and services: Businesses which cater to consumers such as awning shops and sales, burglar alarm systems, clothing (second-hand), exhibition house, furniture, home furnishings, equipment, and appliances (second-hand), glass, mirror, lawn mower and small motor, trading stamp redemption center, and the like.
(124)
Other places of worship: Places such as monasteries, convents, novitiates, parish houses, parsonages, rectories, manse.
(125)
Other service establishments Businesses or locations catering to specialty services such as auction house or store, cabinet maker, caterer, delivery and express service, driving school (private), fur repair and storage, gunsmith shop, locksmith shop, safe and vault repair, scientific instrument repair, taxidermist, tool sharpener, and the like.
(126)
Park: Any lands or facilities owned, operated, controlled or managed by any county, city (municipality), state, or federal government or any governmental entity in and upon which recreational activities or places are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
(127)
Parking for vehicles: A location for on-site parking of automobiles, trucks, and recreational vehicles (with a manufacturer's towing and/or carrying capacity rating of less than one and one-half (1½) tons). This restriction shall not apply to vehicles parked on church property which are operated exclusively for church use.
(128)
Parking space: An area which has for its exclusive purpose the parking of a vehicle.
(129)
Personal property sales: Sales of personal property such as estate sales, yard sales, bakery sales, garage sales, bazaars, and the like; three (3) weekends per calendar year, not to exceed three (3) days per sale.
(130)
Planned development: An area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified by ordinance, to be planned, developed, and maintained according to plan as a single entity and containing one or more structures with appurtenant common areas.
(131)
Planning Commission: The Planning Commission, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(132)
Planned Residential Development (PRD) : A residential area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified by ordinance, to be planned, developed, and maintained according to a plan as a single entity and containing one or more structures with appurtenant common areas.
(133)
Plat: A map, plan, or layout, to scale of a county, city (municipality), town, lot, section, subdivision or development indicating the location and boundaries of properties, and prepared by a registered land surveyor.
(134)
Principal use: The primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
(135)
Public Works Development Review Committee: The Public Works Development Review Committee, of Paulding County, Georgia.
(136)
Rear of the principal building: Shall be that point where the main portion of the building ends without consideration of wings or annexes which are not parallel to the main portion of the building.
(137)
Recreational Building: Recreational buildings are accessory buildings limited to one (1) such structure per lot and shall not include manufactured, mobile or modular structures. The minimum lot size is ten (10) acres and shall be limited to the total area of all structures (existing and proposed) to be not more than twenty (20) percent of the total lot area. The recreational building requires a Special Use Permit and is subject to the following at minimum:
a.
An approved Special Use Permit issued by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, and any stipulations imposed must be observed.
b.
A minimum heated floor area of 1100 square feet.
c.
Septic system approval by State Environmental Health;
d.
It shall be used by a bona fide non-paying guest or relative of the occupants of the principal residence, and shall not be rented or leased.
e.
It shall not be sold as a separate unit from the principal residence.
f.
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with this Ordinance.
g.
All applicable permits shall be obtained.
(138)
Recycling center: A center or location approved by the local government designed for sorting or collection or recyclables from designated recycling collection locations and other private entity sources.
(139)
Regional shopping mall: A group of commercial enterprises offering a range of commercial goods and services in an aggregate of five hundred thousand (500,000) square feet or more of net floor area which:
a.
Are designed as a single commercial group; whether or not located on the same lot;
b.
Are under one common ownership or management, or having one common arrangement for the maintenance of the grounds;
c.
Are connected by party walls, partitions, covered canopies or other structural members to form one continuous structure;
d.
Share a common parking area; and
e.
Otherwise present the appearance of one continuous commercial area.
(140)
Religious assembly: Religious services conducted on a site that is not permanently occupied by a religious assembly use, for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
(141)
Residence: A house, apartment, manufactured home, boarding or rooming house, duplex, or other multi-family housing for human dwelling.
(142)
Rest home: See nursing home.
(143)
Retail business: A business consisting primarily of buying merchandise or articles in gross and selling to general consumers in small quantities or broken lots or parcels and not in bulk and not for resale.
(144)
Retail package liquor store: A retail business establishment owned by an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business entity:
a.
Primarily engaged in the retail sale of distilled spirit, malt beverages, and wine in unbroken packages, not for consumption on the premises; and
b.
That derives from such retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages at least seventy-five percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of a combination of distilled spirits, malt beverage, and wine. (See also Article X, Section B requiring special use permit).
(145)
Retail sales, outdoor: Retail sales of new merchandise on the site of a licensed, established retail business which has a direct relationship to existing businesses.
(146)
Retirement community: A development which may be in any housing form, including detached and attached dwelling units, apartments, and residences, offering private and semiprivate rooms.
(147)
Right-of-way line: The dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a contiguous right-of-way.
(148)
Rooming house: A building where housing accommodations are provided for compensation to three (3) or more, but not exceeding fifteen (15) persons, subject to applicable approval by the State Fire Marshall or County Fire Department. A building which has accommodations for more than fifteen (15) persons shall be defined as a hotel under the terms of this ordinance.
(149)
School: Any building or part thereof which is designed, constructed, or used for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge.
(150)
Self-service storage facility (mini-warehouse) : A structure containing separate, individual, and private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on individual leases for varying periods of time.
(151)
Shelter, homeless: Charitable, non-profit, short-term housing and/or room and board accommodations for poor, transient, or needy individual(s) which must meet the following minimum criteria:
a.
Adequate showers and restroom facilities must be provided at the location to meet the needs of the overnight guests;
b.
Beds must be provided for all overnight guests excluding staff and volunteer workers;
c.
No shelter shall be located closer than five hundred (500) feet to the nearest single-family residence;
d.
Guests of the shelter shall be required to leave the shelter premises no later than 7:00 a.m.;
e.
All premises shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary fashion; subject to approval by the State Fire Marshal and/or Paulding County Fire Department as applicable.
While not specifically a permitted use under all districts, a shelter may be located in a church facility which meets the above minimum standards.
(152)
Sign, business: See Article XII of this Ordinance.
(153)
Sign, outdoor advertising: See Article XII of this Ordinance.
(154)
International Codes: Minimum standards as set by the International Code Council, as may be amended from time to time, pertaining to building, fire prevention, gas, mechanical and plumbing.
(155)
Special Use Permit: A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon approval by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, in accord with provisions of this Ordinance.
(156)
Street: A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as an avenue, road, boulevard, highway, expressway, lane, alley or other way. For the purpose of this Ordinance, "streets" are divided into the following categories:
a.
Alley—A minor way, public or private, used for service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street;
b.
Cul-de-sac—A minor street having one end open to traffic and the other end terminated with a paved turn-around;
c.
Dead end—A stub street in a subdivision which will at a later time be continued into another portion of the subdivision;
d.
Major or arterial streets—Those streets designed to serve moderately fast and voluminous traffic through and within the county with a minimum of traffic control devices;
e.
Minor or local streets—A street used primarily for access to adjacent and abutting properties;
f.
Secondary or collector streets—Those streets designed to collect traffic to minor or local streets and distribute it to major or arterial streets.
(157)
Story: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, the space between such floor and the ceiling above it. A basement shall be counted as a story if its ceiling is over six (6) feet above the average level of the finished ground surface adjoining the exterior walls of such story, or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes.
(158)
Street fairs: Temporary provision of games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment, or similar activities not requiring the use of roofed structures.
(159)
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the ground.
(160)
Structural alteration: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any structural change in the roof, or dimension of the rooms therein.
(161)
Subdivision: A tract of land divided into more than two (2) lots and as set forth in the Development Regulations of Paulding County, Georgia, (refer to the Development Regulations of Paulding County, Georgia which are incorporated herein by reference thereto).
(162)
Subdivision Development Regulations: Refers to the Subdivision Development Regulations of Paulding County, Georgia which are incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(163)
Temporary impound lot: An establishment used for the short-term storage of damaged or confiscated vehicles.
(164)
Temporary uses: Specialized and intermittent uses of property such as animal shows, Christmas tree sales, circuses and carnivals, commercial filming limited, live entertainment, personal property sales, religious assemblies, retail sales outdoor, street fairs, and swap meets (non-recurring) not to exceed thirty (30) days or the time period set forth in these definitions, whichever is lesser. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided for all such uses.
(165)
Tent: A temporary or permanent structure having a roof and/or walls of fabric.
(166)
Townhouse: An attached house in a row or group, each house separated from adjoining houses in the same row or group by architectural style, changing of facade, offsets, and by fire walls or fire separations.
(167)
Travel trailer/recreational vehicle: A portable structure whether self-propelled or pulled by a power unit, designed for temporary occupancy for travel, recreation or vacation uses.
(168)
Use, accessory: See accessory use.
(169)
Variance: A modification of the literal provisions of this ordinance, when strict enforcement of said provisions would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the variance is sought, which the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, may grant, after conducting a zoning appeals hearing, contingent on receiving a recommendation from the Zoning Board of Appeals of Paulding County, Georgia.
(170)
Veterinary clinic/hospital: A place where animals are given medical care by a licensed veterinarian and the boarding of animals is indoors and limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital or clinic use.
(171)
Veterinary care and associated boarding facility: A place where animals are given medical care by a licensed veterinarian and may also include breeding and/or boarding of animals and kennel facilities as a function of the business provided no part of any outside structure, pen, run, enclosure, or fence for animals is located closer than fifty (50) feet to any property line.
(172)
Wholesale business: A business primarily engaged in the selling of goods or articles in gross to retailers or jobbers for resale and not to the ultimate consumer.
(173)
Yard: An open space on the same lot with a principal building open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
(174)
Yard, front: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
(175)
Yard, rear: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to side lines of the lot.
(176)
Yard, side: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, situated between the building and the side lot line of the lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear line or a front line shall be deemed a side line.
(177)
Zoning Administrator: The Operations Manager of the City of Hiram, Georgia, or his/her designated representative.
(Ord. No. 2015-04, §§ 4, 5, 7-7-2015)
