ARTICLE V. - APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS

Sec. A. - Use.
Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied, and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed, subdivided, moved, altered, added to, or enlarged for any purpose or in any manner other than is set forth in this ordinance or in amendments to this ordinance.
Sec. B. - Height.
Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, to exceed in height the limit established in this ordinance or amendments to this ordinance.
Sec. C. - Only one principal building.
Only one (1) principal building and its customary accessory buildings may be erected on any one (1) lot within agricultural, single-family residential, and manufactured housing subdivisions, or on lots containing a single-family residential use. In non single-family residential districts, any one (1) lot may contain more than one primary structure provided: (a) Not more than one single-family residential structure is located on any one lot; multi-family uses may be located on the same lot subject to area, yard, setback, and zoning requirements; (b) a primary residential use cannot be combined or conducted on the same lot with a primary office, institutional, commercial, or industrial use except as hereinafter provided; and (c) parking, setbacks, loading, and unloading space, and other applicable development standards must be met for each structure or use as if it were on a separate lot.
Sec. D. - Reduction of lot area.
No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size so that the lot width or depth, front, side or rear yard, lot area per family, or other requirements of this Ordinance, are not maintained unless approved by the Mayor and Council of the City of Hiram, Georgia, after review and recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals, of Paulding County, Georgia. This section shall not apply when a portion of a lot is acquired for public purposes.
Sec. E. - Lot abutting street.
No building shall hereafter be erected on a lot which does not abut for a minimum of thirty (30) feet on a publicly dedicated, publicly approved, or publicly maintained street, or on a dedicated easement (which has been recorded in the Clerk of Superior Court, of Paulding County, Georgia) connecting with a public way which guarantees ingress and egress for perpetuity (also subject to requirements of the Subdivision Regulation Ordinance).
Sec. F. - Corner lot.
A lot fronting on two streets at their intersection. When the frontage of one street exceeds the frontage of the other, the one with the least frontage shall be deemed the front of the lot. The side yard setback for a corner lot adjacent to a local street shall be twenty-five (25) feet in all zoning districts except where otherwise noted herein.
Sec. G. - Double frontage lots.
If a building or accessory building is constructed or a use of a lot occurs on a lot having frontage on two (2) roads, a setback from each road shall be provided equal to the front yard setback requirements in which the lot is located.
Sec. H. - Unobstructed yard.
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed, except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, except for the ordinary projection of a cornice, eave, belt cornice, sill, canopy or other similar architectural feature projecting not to exceed thirty-six (36) inches into said yard.
Sec. I. - Required yard.
No yard provided for about a building for the purposes of complying with the provisions of this ordinance or amendments thereto shall be considered as providing a yard for any other building, and no yard on one lot shall be considered as providing a yard for a building on any other lot.
Sec. J. - Inspection of required buffers.
In the event a screen, wall, fence, planted dividing strip, or any other type of buffer is required by this Ordinance for any use, such screen, wall, etc., will be subjected to periodic inspections by the City Code Enforcement Division and/or the Operations Manager's Office, of the City of Hiram, Georgia, to determine that such required walls, fences, etc., are being properly maintained. Failure to maintain such required walls, fences, etc. to an acceptable standard may be deemed a violation of this Ordinance.
Sec. K. - General storage.
No outside storage of goods or materials shall be allowed except as hereinafter provided.
