ARTICLE VI. - EXCISE TAX ON ROOMS, LODGING, AND ACCOMMODATIONS

Sec. 12-192. - Purpose.
(a)
It is declared the purpose and the intent of the city that an excise tax be levied upon any room or rooms, lodgings and accommodations furnished for value within the city and that said funds be made available for the purpose of promoting, attracting, stimulating and developing tourism within the city and for the provision of other city services.
(b)
The city does hereby levy and impose an excise tax of five percent upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished by any person or legal entity licensed by, or required to pay business or occupation taxes to the city for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, campground or any place in which rooms, lodgings or accommodations are regularly furnished for value.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.1)
Sec. 12-193. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases shall, for the purposes of this article and except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, be as defined herein:
City means the City of Hiram, Georgia, and variously, the incorporated territory of the city, wherein the city is empowered to impose this tax by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
City manager means the duly appointed city manager or his designee.
Due date means from the 20th day after the close of the monthly period for which the tax is to be computed.
Estimated tax liability means the operator's prospective tax liability based upon tax remittance in the prior fiscal year, as adjusted for change in tax rate or substantial change in circumstances due to damage to the hotel.
Folio means primary documentation produced by a hotel that demonstrates interaction between the operator and the occupant and which, at a minimum, reflects the name and address given by the occupant, the date of occupancy, the amount of rent charged for each date together with the amounts of applicable excise tax and the method of payment.
Guestroom means a room occupied, or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, motor hotel, short-term rental, auto court, truck stop, tourist cabin, campground, lodge, inn, time-share or other condominium, apartment community, public club or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy, by paying guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. It does not include any hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, jail, prison, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar month of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to use or possession of any guestroom or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any guestroom in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee or any other person operating such hotel and who is subject to the taxation imposed for furnishing for value to the public any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guestroom in a hotel for not less than 30 continuous days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint adventure, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, cooperative, estate, trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States, the State of Georgia and any instrumentality of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.2; Ord. No. 2022-07, § 2, 10-4-2022)
Sec. 12-194. - Tax rate.
There shall be paid for every occupancy of a guestroom in any hotel in the city a tax at the rate of five percent of the amount of any rent unless an exemption is provided under section 12-197.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.3)
Sec. 12-195. - Collection of tax by operator.
Every operator renting guestrooms in this city shall collect a tax of five percent on the amount of rent from the occupant unless an exemption is provided under section 12-197. The operator shall provide a receipt to each occupant, which receipt shall reflect both the amount of rent and the amounts of this and other taxes applicable. This tax shall be due from the occupant, and shall be collected by the operator at the same time that the rent is collected.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.4)
Sec. 12-196. - Proceeds of tax; expenditure.
(a)
Proceeds of the tax. The proceeds of the tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3).
(b)
Expenditure of proceeds.
(1)
A portion of the taxes collected shall be paid to the county chamber of commerce or any other entity or organization allowable under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-41 and as may be amended in the future pursuant to a contract with same, and expended for the purposes of promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows in the city. In this regard, the county chamber of commerce must spend such monies on planning, conducting or participating in programs of information and publicity designed to attract or advertise tourism, conventions or trade shows in the city. The portions to be paid to the county chamber of commerce shall be as follows: An amount equal to the amount by which the total taxes collected under this article exceed the taxes which would have been collected at a rate of three percent;
(2)
Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the county chamber of commerce shall provide to the governing authority a budget detailing the proposed expenditure of the funds provided under this article. Such budget, after being approved by the governing authority, shall be made a part of the budget for the city;
(3)
The county chamber of commerce shall provide to the governing authority audit verification that the county chamber of commerce has made use of the funds in conformity with the proposed budget and the general purpose of this article. The county chamber of commerce shall also complete a department of community affairs hotel/motel tax report and project/contractor information schedule.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.5)
Sec. 12-197. - Exemption.
No tax shall be collected from an occupant after becoming a permanent resident; or from an occupant who certifies in writing that he is staying in such accommodations as a result of his residence having been destroyed by fire or other casualty; or from the United States and the state or any instrumentality of either thereof; or from any official of employee of the state, its units of local government or any other instrumentality of the state, when traveling on official business and presenting written substantiation thereof or paying by state or local government credit or debit card; or from a foreign diplomat exempted by treaty or consular convention, when presenting substantiation issued by the United States Department of State. Occupancy provided without charge in money or otherwise is exempt from this tax.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.6)
Sec. 12-198. - Registration of operator; form and contents; execution; certificate of authority.
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in this city shall immediately register with the city clerk, on a form provided by said official. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date that this article becomes effective. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business and such other information which would facilitate the administration of the tax as prescribed by the city manager. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The city clerk shall, after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.7)
Sec. 12-199. - Determination generally; returns, payments.
(a)
Due dates of taxes. All amounts of such tax shall be due and payable to the city clerk monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period. The tax shall become delinquent for each monthly period after the 20th day of each succeeding month during which it remains unpaid.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax by due date. An operator who fails to make any return or to pay the amount of tax as prescribed, shall be assessed a specific penalty to be added to the tax in the amount of five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, if the failure is for one month or less; and an additional five percent or $5.00, whichever is greater, for each additional month or fraction thereof in which such failure shall continue; provided, however, that the aggregate penalty for any single violation shall not exceed 25 percent or $25.00, whichever is greater. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, until paid.
(c)
Acceptance of delinquent return and remittance without imposing penalty and interest; authority; requirements. If the failure to make any return or to pay the amount of tax by the due date results from providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the governing authority of the city by affidavit attached to the return, and remittance is made within ten days of the due date, such may be accepted exclusive of penalty and interest.
(d)
Waiving of penalty and interest; authority. O.C.G.A. § 48-2-41, relating to the authority to waive interest, and O.C.G.A. § 48-2-43, relating to the authority to waive penalty, shall apply; provided, however, that the governing authority shall stand in lieu of the state commissioner of revenue, and the city shall stand in lieu of the state.
(e)
Penalty for fraud. In the case of a false or fraudulent return, or of failure to file a return where willful intent exists to defraud the city of any tax due, a penalty of 50 percent shall be assessed.
(f)
Return; remittance; time of filing; operators required to file; contents. On or before the 20th day of the month succeeding each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period together with appropriate remittance shall be filed with the city manager. The return shall report the gross rent, taxable rent, exempt rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the period, and such other information as may be required by the city manager. However, if the estimated tax liability for any monthly period shall exceed $2,500.00 in any three consecutive months, such operator shall file an estimated return and remit not less the 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the monthly period by the 20th day of that same monthly period. The amount of tax so remitted shall be credited against the amount to be due with the regular return for the monthly period to be filed on the 20th day of the succeeding month.
(g)
Extension of time of filing; authority; remittance; penalty and interest. The governing authority of the city may, for good cause, extend the time for making returns for not longer than 30 days. No extension shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application of the operator. Such grant may not be applicable for longer period than 12 consecutive months. An operator granted an extension shall remit tax equaling not less than 100 percent of the tax paid for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year; such remittance to be made on or before the date the tax would otherwise come due without the grant of extension. No penalty or interest shall be charged during the first ten days of the extension period.
(h)
Collection fee allowed operators. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.8)
Sec. 12-200. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the city manager or his designee is not satisfied with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any operator, the city manager or his designee may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination as provided by this Code and under state law.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. The city manager or his designee shall give to the operator written notice of the manager's determination. The notice served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the city. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in cases of failure to make a return or of fraud, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.9)
Sec. 12-201. - Determination if no return made; unsatisfactory return.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any operator fails to make a return, the city manager or his designee shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the operator, or as the case may be, of the amount of total rentals in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the operator failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the city manager. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in this Code and under state law.
(b)
Penalty and interest for failure to pay tax. Penalty and interest shall be assessed upon the amount of any determination, as provided by this Code and under state law.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.10)
Sec. 12-202. - Collection of tax by city.
(a)
Action for delinquent tax; time for. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city manager or his designee may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with penalty, interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fee and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Operator selling or quitting business. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits his business, he shall make a final return and remittance within 15 days after the date of selling or quitting the business.
(c)
Duty of successors or assignees of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficiently from the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces from the city manager or his designee either a receipt reflecting full payment or a certificate stating no amount is due.
(d)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(e)
Credit for tax, penalty or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city, it may be offset by the governing authority. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city manager or his designee, such person shall have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the governing authority, the excess amount paid to the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.11)
Sec. 12-203. - Administration of article; record keeping.
(a)
Authority of city manager. The city manager or his designee shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax.
(b)
Records required from operators, etc; form. Every operator renting guestrooms in the city shall preserve, for a minimum of three years, all folios, receipts, certificates of exemption and such other documents as the city manager or his designee may prescribe, and in such form as the clerk may require. Said records shall at times be available for examination within the city.
(c)
Application for sales tax audit reports. Each year, in the month of January, the city manager or his designee shall request in writing from the state commissioner of revenue any reports of sales tax audits conducted of hotels in the city during the preceding calendar year.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The city manager or his designee or any person authorized in writing by the manager may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator renting guestrooms and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In administration of the provisions of this article, the city manager or his designee may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in their possession or custody information relating to the rental of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the city manager when required by said official, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date of occupancy, the basis for exemption, or such other information as the city manager may prescribe.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.12)
Sec. 12-204. - Violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00, or confinement for a term not to exceed three months. Each such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this article is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and shall be punished accordingly. Any operator who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city manager, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as aforesaid.
(Ord. of 2-4-2008, § 18-114.13)
Secs. 12-205—12-231. - Reserved.
