Chapter 18 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 18-1. - Weapons; discharge in city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, including pistol, rifle and shotgun, or to shoot an air gun, including BB gun and pellet gun, within the city, except by law enforcement officers in the line of duty, and the military when on drill or parade, or at a funeral in honor of the dead; provided, however, it shall not be unlawful for any person to shoot a BB gun upon private property if that person shall have first obtained the express permission of the owner of that property to do so.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-5)
Sec. 18-2. - Posting signs on poles without consent.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post or display in or upon any bridge any sign or advertisement, or to post or display upon any telegraph, telephone or electric company's pole, or upon any public property or the private property of any person any bills, signs or advertisements without the consent in writing of the owner thereof.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-4)
Sec. 18-3. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful and disorderly conduct for any person to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby a reasonable person would be placed in fear of safety for life or limb;
(2)
Place the property of another in serious danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Use fighting words directed toward another, who becomes outraged and thus creates a turmoil;
(4)
Violently interfere with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; or
(5)
Congregate with others to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear the way when ordered by lawful authority to do so.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-1)
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 18-4. - Noise; creating unnecessary noise.
(a)
The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise within the limits of the city is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and welfare, is prohibited.
(b)
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises and noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, while not in motion except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or, if in motion, only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound or the sounding of that device for an unnecessary or unreasonable period of time.
(2)
Musical instruments. The playing of any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or any persons in the vicinity, except this section shall not apply to schools of music between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(3)
Voices. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any hospital, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or any persons in the vicinity.
(4)
Noisy vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in any manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding or rattling, or other noise.
(5)
Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authority.
(6)
Exhausts. To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any stationary steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(7)
Construction work. The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building in any residential district or section, the excavation of streets and highways in any residential district or section, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday except in cases of urgent necessity, and then only with a permit from the city, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed 60 days while the emergency continues.
(8)
On streets of institutions requiring quiet. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
(9)
Loudspeakers on vehicles. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other purposes. It shall be unlawful to use, maintain or operate loudspeakers, sound trucks, amplifiers or other mechanical or electrical devices for increasing the volume of sound, upon the streets, sidewalks, parks or other public places of the city; provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the United States of America, the state, the county nor the city, nor to public agencies.
(10)
Animals, birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise.
(11)
Engine brakes. Use of engine brakes and compression brakes prohibited.
a.
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall apply:
Engine brake or compressionbrake means a device used primarily on trucks for the conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes, which devices are commonly referred to as "air brakes," "Jacob's brakes" or "Jake brakes."
Prohibited streets mean those roads within the City of Ball Ground where the use of engine brakes or compression brakes are illegal and include the following:
1.
A. W. Roberts Drive (State Route 372).
2.
Gilmer Ferry Road (State Route 372).
3.
Ball Ground Highway (State Route 372) (State Route Business 5).
4.
Canton Highway (State Route 372) (State Route Business 5).
These streets shall be posted with signs indicating that the use of engine and compression brakes are prohibited.
b.
Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person in actual physical control of a motor vehicle to use an engine or compression braking device while traveling along the prohibited streets except to affect an emergency stop.
(c)
None of the foregoing terms or prohibitions shall apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged upon necessary public business;
(2)
Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets or highways, by or on behalf of the city, county or state during the night season, when the public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform that work during the day; nor shall the same apply to work performed by public utility companies under like conditions and circumstances, or when there is urgent necessity therefore; and
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(d)
The prohibitions shall not he applicable to any parade, celebration or performance for which a written permit has been obtained prior thereto from the city clerk.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-3; Ord. of 7-23-2009; Ord. of 6-13-2019 )
Sec. 18-5. - Loitering.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at time or in a manner not usual for a law abiding individual under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered and determined in whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impractical, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for the offense under this section, offer the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern, which would otherwise be warranted, by requesting a person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct.
(c)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-8)
Sec. 18-6. - Public drunkenness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on the streets of the city or in any public place in an intoxicated and disorderly condition.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-2)
State Law reference— Public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 18-7. - Public drinking or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages while on or in any public way, or upon any way that the public has the right of access to, to include parking areas open to the general public.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages upon any city-owned property except whereat an executive committee approved special event permit has been issued.
(Code 2010, § 9-1-9)
