DIVISION 101. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 101.1. - Official Zoning Map.
A.
The City is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as though fully set forth herein. A copy of the Official Zoning Map shall be maintained on file with the City Clerk for inspection and review by the public.
B.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City Clerk, and bearing the seal of the city together with the date of the adoption of this article.
C.
If, in accordance with the provisions of this article and state law, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council, with an entry on the Official Zoning Map signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk.
D.
No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this article. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this article and punishable as provided under this article.
E.
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map which shall be located in the office of the City Clerk shall be the final authority.
Sec. 101.2. - Replacement of official zoning map.
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede all previous such maps. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors of omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
Sec. 101.3. - District designations.
modified
For the purpose of this ordinance, City of Ball Ground is hereby divided into zoning districts as shown in Table 101.1.
TABLE 101.1 - CITY OF BALL GROUND ZONING DISTRICTS
EXPAND
AG General Agriculture; detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
R-80 Detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
R-40 Detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
R-30 Detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
R-20 Detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
R-15 Detached single-family residential, "For Sale"
RZL Detached single-family residential, zero lot line, "For Sale"
RM-4 Detached or attached, single-family or multi-family residential, "For Sale" or "For Rent"
CC-R City Center-Residential
CC-T City Center-Transitional
CC-C City Center-Commercial
NC Neighborhood Commercial
GC General Commercial
TND Traditional Neighborhood Development
BGH Ball Ground Highway Commercial Gateway
LI Light Industrial
HI Heavy Industrial
  ZONING EQUIVALENT TO 2000 RESOLUTION
EXPAND
2023 Resolution/Ordinance 2000 Resolution
R-80 RE
R-15 R-15
R-20 R-20
R-30 R-30
R-40 R-40
RM-4 RM-4
RZL -
NC NC
GC -
- LRO
- OIT
CC-R
CC-T -
CC-C CBD
LI LI
HI -
BGH HO
TND TND
- Valley Overlay District
  Zoning Equivalent to 1969 Ordinance Provisions
EXPAND
2000 Resolution 1969 Ordinance as amended
RE AG and RE
R-40 R 1A and R 1 (one acre)
R-20 R 1 (one-half, one and five acre)
R-15 R 1 with sewer
RM-4 R-2
OIT None
LRO None
NC CN
LI M-1
CBD GC, CN
TND None
HO None
  (Ord. of 4-13-2023(1) )
