Chapter 101 - GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 101-1. - Applicability of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 of this Code apply to this subpart.
Sec. 101-2. - Status.
Subpart B of this Code is a codification of ordinances pertaining to land development. Subpart A of this Code is a codification of other ordinances. Failure to include an ordinance in subpart B that relates to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in subpart B that does not pertain to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in subpart A that pertains to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance.
Secs. 101-3—101-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Historic preservation commission, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-24 et seq.

Sec. 101-23. - Purpose.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to:
(1)
Encourage the historic preservation of the city through the establishment of a historic preservation commission and a requirement for the commission to review and comment to the city council on plans of subdivision and certain applications for building permits;
(2)
Review and comment to the board of zoning appeals on certain applications for variances or special exceptions;
(3)
Review and comment to the city council on development regulations, development regulation amendments, and applications for re-zoning of property;
(4)
Review and comment to the city council regarding proposed developments or improvements outside of the corporate boundaries of the city which may have the effect of adversely impacting the city's unique historical assets. The historic preservation commission will serve as the official archival body of the city and a resource and clearinghouse for information regarding historic preservation for the benefit of the city, the city council and the public generally; and
(5)
Advise the city council on matters relating to maintenance, repair and improvements to property owned by the city.
(b)
All of the foregoing is intended to safeguard the heritage of the city by encouraging the preservation of the historic nature of the city and the elements of its cultural, social, economic and architectural history; to stabilize and improve property values; to foster civic duty; to strengthen the city's economy; and to promote the preservation and appreciation of the historic nature of the city as a whole and specific sites and structures within the city for the education and welfare of residents of the city, and visitors thereto.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-1)
Sec. 101-24. - Created.
Pursuant to the Georgia Historic Preservation Act (O.C.G.A. § 44-10-20 et seq.), there is hereby created a city historic preservation commission, hereinafter referred to as the "commission".
(Code 2010, § 2-7-2)
Sec. 101-25. - Composition; appointment; term of members; vacancies; compensation.
(a)
The commission shall consist of five members. Each member shall:
(1)
Possess a demonstrated special interest, specific knowledge, or professional or academic training in such fields as history, architecture, architectural history, planning, archeology, anthropology, curation, conservation, landscape architecture, historic preservation, urban design or related disciplines. One member may also be a member of the city council.
(2)
Be a resident at a location that possesses a physical address in the city.
(3)
Be appointed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council.
(4)
Be appointed for a term of three years.
(b)
Transitional provisions. For the appointment of the first members of the commission after adoption of this article, one member shall be appointed for a one-year term, two members shall be appointed for a two-year term, and two members shall be appointed for a three-year term. As those initial terms expire, all subsequent appointments shall be for three years.
(c)
Members of the commission are eligible for reappointment.
(d)
Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council.
(e)
The members of the commission shall service without compensation.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-3)
State Law reference— Historic preservation commissions, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-24 et seq.
Sec. 101-26. - Chairman.
The commission shall elect from among its members a chairman. The term of the chairman shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each quarter. It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a record of its recommendations, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-4)
Sec. 101-27. - Rules and regulations; right to appear and be heard.
The commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the proper transaction of its business. Any interested person or a person's representative is entitled to appear and, upon request, be heard at any public meeting conducted by the commission.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-6)
Sec. 101-28. - Duties of the clerk and other city officials in connection with the commission.
(a)
The city clerk shall be considered the official record keeper for the commission. The commission will furnish the city clerk with copies of meeting minutes, and copies of correspondence generated and received.
(b)
Any administrative support required by the commission will be addressed to the city manager for assignment.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-7)
Sec. 101-29. - Failure to act.
The failure of the commission to either meet or submit a recommendation within established timelines will not delay the action of any request pending before the city council or zoning board of appeals.
(Code 2010, § 2-7-8)
