ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 6-101. - Municipal court.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of East Point. The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 6-102. - Chief judge; assistant judges.
(a)
Judges. The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such assistant judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
Qualifications. No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person:
(1)
Has been licensed to practice law in the State of Georgia for at least five years prior to appointment;
(2)
Is a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia at the time of his or her appointment; and
(3)
Is a resident of Fulton County at the time of and during their appointment.
All judges shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Compensation. The judges shall receive compensation and expenses for their service as provided by ordinance.
(d)
Terms. Judges shall be appointed by the city council for a term of four years and shall be authorized to serve in office until such judge's successor shall be appointed and qualified.
(e)
Oath. Before assuming office, each judge shall take the oath of office required pursuant to section 7-102 of this charter.
Sec. 6-103. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
Violations of city ordinances and other laws. The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law; provided, however, that the municipal court shall not impose any punishment of imprisonment, probation, or other loss of liberty, nor any fine, fee, or cost the nonpayment of which is enforceable by imprisonment, probation, or other loss of liberty under this charter or under any county or other general law unless the municipal court provides to those persons accused of a criminal offense the right to representation by a lawyer and provides to those indigent persons who are accused of a criminal offense the right to representation by a lawyer at no cost to the accused.
(b)
Contempt. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
Punishment. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for six months or both such fine and imprisonment. The municipal court shall have the power to impose such fines, periods of imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as may now or may hereafter be provided by law.
(d)
Schedule of fees. The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and casemaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
Bail. The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for that person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
Production of evidence. The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
Subpoenas. The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of subpoenas and summonses, which may be served, as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(h)
Warrants. Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
Sec. 6-104. - Appeals from municipal court.
The right to appeal the decisions and judgments of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such appeals shall be made to the Superior Court of Fulton County under the laws of the State of Georgia that govern the making of appeals from municipal courts.
Sec. 6-105. - Rules of court.
The chief judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
