Part 1 - USE OF THE CODE
Ch. 1. General Provisions
CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1001. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following parts, chapters, articles and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of East Point, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1959, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-1002. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-1003. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
(1)
Charter. The word "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the City, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
(2)
City. The words "city," "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of East Point, Georgia" followed them.
(3)
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean The Code of Ordinances, City of East Point, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1001.
(4)
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day or the last; except that if the last day shall fall on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, another day shall be added in the computation.
(5)
Council. The words "council" or "city council" shall be construed as if the words "of East Point, Georgia" followed them.
(6)
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Fulton County, Georgia.
(7)
Court. The word "court" shall mean the recorder's court of the city.
(8)
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
(9)
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, or to a quorum.
(10)
Judge. The word "judge" shall mean the judge of the city court of the city.
(11)
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
(12)
Land. "Land" and "real estate" includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
(13)
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
(14)
Number. The singular or plural shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
(15)
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious scruples against taking an oath. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
(16)
Officers, departments, boards, commissions. Any reference to the title of an officer, department, board or commission shall be construed as if the words "of East Point, Georgia" followed them.
(17)
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
(18)
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
(19)
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
(20)
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
(21)
Personal property. The term "personal property" means all tangible personal property and all intangible personal property as the terms are defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-1-2(19).
(22)
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
(23)
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
(24)
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any place where the conduct involved may reasonably be expected to be viewed by people other than members of the actor's family or household.
(25)
Real property. The term "real property" shall include all lands, including improvements and fixtures thereon and property of any nature appurtenant thereto or used in connection therewith, and every estate, interest, right, and use, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years and liens by way of judgment, mortgage, or otherwise.
(26)
Shall, may The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
(27)
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for by use pedestrians.
(28)
Signature or subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
(29)
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
(30)
Street. The word "street" shall mean the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(31)
Tenant or occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of, such building or land, either along or with others.
(32)
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future as well as the past and present.
(33)
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
(34)
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1959, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-1004. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or other invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1959, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-1005. - Catchlines of sections, etc.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any catchline or any heading or title to any part, chapter or article.
The history notes appearing in parenthesis after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
(Code 1959, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-1006. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or labor on the public works or streets in the city for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or community service work for not more than one hundred eighty (180) days, subject to all limitation contained in the charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1959, § 1-5; Ord. No. 012-00, § 1, 6-5-00; Ord. No. 124-2019 , 11-18-19)
Sec. 1-1007. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the city court shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by the judge of the court in such judgments and sentences.
(Code 1959, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-1008. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1959, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-1009. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city council to make them a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Ordinances, City of East Point, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…" The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of Ordinances, City of East Point, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows: …" The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1959, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-1010. - Formal motion, resolution or recommendation required for passage of new ordinance.
No proposed ordinance for introduction or consideration and enactment thereof shall be drawn, prepared or considered for enactment, which shall not have been previously requested by a formal motion, resolution or recommendation of some one (1) or more members of the city council, and entered on the minutes of the city council.
(Code 1959, § 1-8.1)
Sec. 1-1011. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-1012. - Official city time.
(a)
Time referred to in ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city shall mean Eastern Standard Time, and acts and deeds of commission prohibited after a named hour or before a named hour shall be held and understood to mean such hour by Eastern Standard Time, and wherever any reference to time is made in any of the ordinances and regulations of the city, the rules, ordinances and regulations are hereby amended to provide that the time provided therein shall be and is hereby made Eastern Standard Time in accordance with the laws of this state.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), Eastern Daylight Saving Time shall apply when such time is in effect in this state.
(Code 1959, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-1013. - Ordinances and resolutions saved from repeal.
(a)
The repeal of all ordinances and resolutions of a general and permanent nature of the city, by section 2 of an Ordinance of November 17, 1980 which adopted this Code shall not apply to the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established before the effective date of the Adopting Ordinance of November 17, 1980;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(5)
The annual appropriation of the city;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes now due or accrued.
(b)
This repeal shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or resolution or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed by the Adopting Ordinance of November 17, 1980.
Sec. 1-1014. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the mayor and council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement of already embodied in the Code.
