Part 3 - COURTS
Ch. 1. City Court
Ch. 2. Witnesses
Ch. 3. Fees, Costs and Expenses
Ch. 4. Arrests
Ch. 5. Prisoners
CHAPTER 1. - CITY COURT

Sec. 3-1001. - Sessions; continuance of cases.
The city court shall be convened and held at 4:00 p.m. each day except Sundays and holidays, unless such convening be made unnecessary by lack of cases to try; provided, after a case has been set for trial, the court without convening, may, in its discretion, continue such case to a later date or to a later hour of the same day; and provided further, such regular daily convening hour may be changed by the judge of such court after proper notice.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-1)
Sec. 3-1002. - Trial date of persons not admitted to bail.
Persons under arrest for violating any law or ordinance of the city and not admitted to bail shall be tried within seventy-two (72) hours of their arrest unless a trial is continued upon request of the defendant or for good and sufficient cause within the sound discretion of the court.
Sec. 3-1003. - Contents of copies of charges; requirements.
All copies of charges requiring persons to appear in the city court shall be properly dated the day they are issued, and shall be signed by the officer making the case, and shall notify the person summoned of the day and hour for his appearance.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-3)
Sec. 3-1004. - Same; failure to appear after receipt.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to fail to appear in the city court when required to do so by a copy of charges served on the accused in person, where such copy indicates the time at which the accused is to appear.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-4)
Sec. 3-1005. - Appeals from decisions.
In all cases where any person is tried for a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the city and is convicted, he shall have the right of appeal by certiorari to the Fulton County Superior Court.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-5)
Sec. 3-1006. - Execution form; adoption.
The following form of execution to be issued for the enforcement of fines imposed in the city court is hereby adopted:
EXPAND
To the Chief of Police, Mar-
shal, and Police Officers of
State of Georgia Said City, and to All and
County of Fulton Singular the Sheriff's and
City of East Constables of said state:
Point
  WE COMMAND YOU, that of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of _____
_____
as defendants, you cause to be made by levy and sale the sum of ___________ ($   ) DOLLARS being the amount of a fine imposed on said defendants in the City Court of said City on the ________ day of ________, year ___; and also the further sum of three dollars ($3.00) cost in said case wherein said fine was imposed, and that you have paid several sums of money with your return of your actings and doings in the premises before the City Council of East Point 90 days from the date hereof. WITNESS, The Honorable_______, Judge of said Court.
This _______ day of ________, year ___.
Clerk of said Court.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-6)
Sec. 3-1007. - Same; supply of copies.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the city court to have sufficient copies of the form of execution, set out in section 3-1006 printed for use in the court.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-7)
Sec. 3-1008. - Court dockets; duty of judge to obtain.
The judge of the city court shall obtain suitable court dockets on which shall be entered for trial every offense against this Code and other ordinances of the city.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-8)
Sec. 3-1009. - Same; contents.
With each case entered on the city court docket there shall be a statement of the name of the accused, the name and date of the offense charged and the name of the officer making the case or arrest; and the style or caption of the case shall be "City of East Point" against the person accused, and each case shall be consecutively numbered, and the date the same is entered on the docket shall be stated, and such docket shall have suitable blank spaces for each case to show all of the foregoing, together with suitable blank spaces for the entry of such facts as the filing of a bond with the amount and date thereof, if one is filed, together with the names of the sureties, and if the bail be cash this fact should appear; also, blank spaces for entries of continuances, and the judgment entered and date thereof; and whether satisfied by payment of a fine, and the amount and date thereof, with suitable blank spaces to show whether the case is appealed or dismissed, and if so the date thereof, with suitable blank space for the name of the judge to be signed to each judgment or order passed by the judge with reference to any case, or any step in the course or pendency of a case in the court.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-9)
Sec. 3-1010. - Same; disposal of cases.
Every case entered on the city court docket shall be promptly disposed of by the court on the call of the case in its regular order or as soon thereafter as is reasonable by trial, continuance, dismissal, forfeiture of bond, attachment for contempt or by any other lawful order or judgment.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-10)
Sec. 3-1011. - Limitation period for prosecutions.
All prosecutions for violations of any of the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city shall be commenced within two (2) years after such violation, and any offense for which no prosecution is begun within two (2) years after its commission, shall be barred, unless the party shall have been beyond the limits of the city, in which case the time of absence from the city shall not be embraced or computed as within the two (2) years.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-11)
Sec. 3-1012. - Judge of the municipal court.
(a)
Qualifications. To qualify for appointment as a judge of the municipal court, a person shall be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, a member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing, a practicing attorney with a minimum of five (5) years' experience, and a resident of Fulton County at the time of and during his or her appointment. To continue to hold office as a judge after appointment, a person shall continue to possess all of the foregoing qualifications, and shall not hold or qualify for any other public office.
(b)
Term. The judge, judge emeritus and all assistant judges shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council for a term of four (4) years and until his or her successors are appointed and qualified; provided, nothing contained herein shall affect the term of the present incumbent(s). Judges may be reappointed without limit to the number of terms.
(c)
Removal. The judge may be removed from office during a 4-year term by the city council after notice and a hearing before the city council upon written charge of neglect of duty, malpractice in office or other conduct unbecoming a judge. The affirmative vote of a majority of the city council shall be necessary for such removal. Any assistant judge or judge emeritus may be removed from office by the city council at any time with or without cause.
(d)
Salary of judge and assistant judges. The judge of the municipal court shall receive an annual salary and benefits fixed by the city council in the city's classification plan, which shall be paid in the same manner and at the same interval as other municipal employees. Any assistant judge shall be paid on a basis for services actually rendered in an amount and manner determined from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. No. 018-07, § 1, 6-18-07)
Sec. 3-1013. - Assistant judge.
The position of assistant city judge for the City Court of the City of East Point is hereby established pursuant to the authorization in the City Charter. The assistant city judge shall be appointed by the city council in the same manner as provided for appointment of the city judge. The assistant city judge shall have all of the rights, privileges and duties of the city judge. It shall be the duty of the assistant city judge to preside over the city court in East Point at such times and on the occasions as the city judge is unable or for any reason not presiding over the court. Additionally, it shall be the duty of the assistant city judge to issue warrants and perform any other and all duties of the city judge, when the city judge is unavailable by reason of absence from the city, vacation, sickness or other reasons.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-12.1)
CHAPTER 2. - WITNESSES

Sec. 3-2001. - Method of securing attendance.
The attendance of witnesses whose testimony is desired in any trial, hearing or investigation conducted by or under authority of the city council, the board of tax assessors of the city or any other legally created board or body of the city, may be secured by service of a subpoena upon such witness.
Sec. 3-2002. - Witnesses entitled to one day's notice; exemption.
The subpoena described in section 3-2003 shall be served upon the witness whose testimony is desired at least one (1) day in advance of any trial, hearing or investigation; provided, that upon a unanimous vote of the board or body causing the subpoena to issue, and in the interests of justice and the public welfare the period of notice may be less than one (1) day; provided further, the witness may be served with summons within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-38)
Sec. 3-2003. - Form of subpoena.
The form for subpoenas used by this city under this chapter to secure the attendance of witnesses in trials, investigations, hearings and the like shall be as prescribed by law.
Sec. 3-2004. - City clerk or his assistant to issue; duty of chief of police.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk or his assistant upon application of any person to issue a subpoena to compel the attendance of any witness before any of the boards or bodies mentioned in section 3-2001. It shall be the duty of the chief of police of the city to cause any subpoena placed in his hands by any person to be served upon the witness designated in the subpoena, promptly upon application of any person; provided, the address of the witness is known to the chief of police of the city or is furnished to the chief of police of the city by the person delivering the subpoena to the chief of police.
(b)
On application of anyone charged with an offense or violation of any law or ordinance, and required to be tried in the City Court of East Point, or upon application of his or her attorney or agent, the chief of police, assistant chief of police, or other officer in charge of the police department at the time of the application, a witness subpoena shall be issued by the person to whom the application is made, which subpoena shall be dated and signed by the officer issuing it and directed to the witness whose attendance the applicant desires, and shall direct the witness to appear in person in such court at the time of the hearing or trial in which the testimony of the witness is desired as stated in the subpoena, and to remain in attendance in such court until excused by the court; and when a subpoena shall have been issued it shall be delivered to a police officer of the city who shall promptly serve it on the witness named therein if the witness can be located within this city. The city clerk or his assistant shall likewise have power and authority to issue such subpoenas, and in such case the subpoenas shall, when issued, be delivered to the applicant therefor who shall promptly deliver them to the chief of police or other officer in charge of the police department of the city at the time of such delivery.
Sec. 3-2005. - Service and entry of service.
(a)
Service of subpoenas shall be made by anyone who has no interest in the proceedings to which the witness is summoned.
(b)
In case of service by a disinterested person, such person shall state in his entry of service that he has served such subpoena on the person named therein as a witness by delivering the subpoena into the hands of the witness. The entry shall be signed and dated by the person making the service.
(c)
Proof of service by any person other than an East Point police officer shall be made by affidavit.
Sec. 3-2006. - Duty of witness to appear, testify, etc.
It shall be the duty of any witness duly subpoenaed before any board or body as described in section 3-2001 to appear before such body at the time and place designated in the subpoena, and to testify truthfully concerning such matter as he may be called upon to testify. The witness shall remain in attendance on such body from day to day, and time to time, until discharged from further attendance; provided, when the hearing, trial or investigation is continued from one (1) date to another date or from one (1) time to another it shall not be necessary to resummon witnesses already summoned. It shall be sufficient if the witness once subpoenaed is given reasonable notice of the time and place to which the investigation, hearing or trial is continued.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-42)
Sec. 3-2007. - Contempt.
Any witness who shall fail or refuse to appear before any body described in section 3-2001, or who shall appear and refuse to testify, shall be guilty of the offense of contempt of such body. The accusation of contempt may be made by any member of the body before whom the witness is subpoenaed to appear and testify, whereupon it shall be the duty of the city judge to issue a warrant against the witness charged with contempt. The warrant shall be placed in the hands of the chief of police of the city who shall cause the person to be arrested and placed in the city jail until the time for trial or until bail is furnished in such amount as may be prescribed by the city judge. The amount of the bail shall not be unreasonable.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-43)
Sec. 3-2008. - Obstructing witnesses; interfering with service.
Any person in any way obstructing, interfering with, preventing or attempting to obstruct, interfere with or prevent the attendance of any party or witness at any hearing, trial or investigation to which such party or witness shall have been subpoenaed, or who shall prevent, interfere with, or attempt to prevent or interfere with service of a subpoena on a witness, shall be guilty of an offense and punished as provided in section 1-1006 of this code.
(Code 1959, Sec. 7-44)
CHAPTER 3. - FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES

Sec. 3-3001. - Schedule of fees adopted.
All city officers and employees required to furnish or render any services in conjunction with any trial, hearing or investigation shall levy against, impose on, charge or collect from the person liable or responsible through such fees as may be set by the judge.
Sec. 3-3002. - Compensation for prisoners in city jail.
For each person placed in the city's jail by a local constable, deputy sheriff or other arresting officer, the city shall receive the same compensation for the same service, accommodations and materials it receives for each person placed in the city jail by a city officer.
(Code 1959, § 7-36)
CHAPTER 4. - ARRESTS

Sec. 3-4001. - Duty of police officers—Persons violating city ordinances.
Any police officer of the city shall arrest and confine in the city jail or in the common jail of the county when necessary, any offender against this Code and other ordinances of the city, where an arrest and confinement is necessary to secure the offender's appearance before the city court to answer for his offense, or where it is necessary to preserve the peace and good order of the city; or the officer may take bond as provided in section 3-4007.
(Code 1959, § 7-13)
Sec. 3-4002. - Same—Persons violating certain state laws.
Any person who shall, in the presence of any police officer, violate any penal laws of this state not punishable by this Code or other city ordinances shall be arrested with or without a warrant and be carried before a committing magistrate for examination and prosecution.
(Code 1959, § 7-14)
Sec. 3-4003. - Same—Duty to issue summons; form of summons.
It shall be the duty of the arresting officer, in any case where an offense is committed in his presence and the offender is arrested or charged with such offense, to deliver to the offender a summons conforming substantially to the form prescribed from time to time by the chief of police.
Sec. 3-4004. - Necessary requisite for issuance of accusation; form of affidavit.
No accusation shall be made against any person for the violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinances of the city committed out of the presence of an arresting officer, except upon the statement of some person made under oath in the presence of some judicial officer authorized to administer an oath, which affidavit shall be the following form:
Georgia, Fulton County:
Personally came _______, who on oath says that _______, did in the City of East Point on the ___ day of ________, year ___ commit the offense of _______.
Affiant
Sworn to and subscribed before me this _______ day of ________, year ___.
_____
Judge of the city court of City of East Point.
(Code 1959, § 7-18)
Sec. 3-4005. - Warrants—Duty of issuing officer; form.
Upon the making of such oath as provided in section 3-4004, such judicial officer shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the person named in such affidavit as having committed the offense charged in the affidavit, which warrant shall be conform to O.C.G.A. § 17-4-46.
(Code 1959, § 7-19)
Sec. 3-4006. - Same—Delivery; arrest and treatment of accused.
It shall be the duty of the officer issuing the warrant mentioned in section 3-4005 to immediately place it in the hands of the property arresting officer for execution, and it shall thereupon be the duty of the arresting officer to proceed immediately to arrest or cause the body of the accused named in the warrant to be arrested and dealt with as in the warrant directed.
(Code 1959, § 7-20)
Sec. 3-4007. - Discretion of marshal as to certain bonds.
The officer on duty and in charge of the police station when any arrest is made may take bond with or without security, and in his discretion payable to the city, in any sum, for the appearance of any person accused or suspected of being guilty of the violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the city, to stand to and abide his trial; and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced.
Sec. 3-4008. - Persons refusing to give bond.
If any arrested person or necessary witness shall fail to give the bond and security required of him, the person so refusing may be confined in the prison of the city or the common jail of the county, or be kept under guard so as to be present at his trial or to testify as the case may be.
(Code 1959, § 7-22)
Sec. 3-4009. - Designation of bail/bond; continuation of bail/bond after sentence; procedure upon failure of bonded person to appear.
All bail/bond taken under the provisions of this Code shall be special bail/bond and the power of the surety over the principal shall be the same as in special bail/bonds. All bail/bonds posted with the city upon charges of violation of provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the City of East Point, Georgia or other ordinances shall be for appearance as follows.
(a)
Appearance for trial upon the charges against the principal as may be scheduled and continued from time to time; and
(b)
In appropriate cases wherein the court may impose an alternative sentence of a dollar fine or time to serve, and give the principal time to be released and obtain fine money, or to appear at a later time for payment of fine and upon failure to pay such fine or serve time, such bail/bond shall compel the principal and hold as security the surety for such second appearance for the purpose of payment of such fine.
All other bonds on violations of state or federal laws may be continued for such appearances as may be required in such cases.
Upon failure of any principal in any bond to appear, where such principal is charged with the violation of any of the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the city upon failure of any principal, who is a witness, to appear and testify as engaged; the judge of the city court shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on the bond or recognizance to show cause before him on such date as may be prescribed by him in accordance with applicable law, why they should not be required to pay the amount of the bond or recognizance and all costs of forfeiture. Once a bond signed by a person as surety has been posted, the bond and surety shall remain in effect until the disposition of the case for which it was posted has been completed, including the payment of any and all fines imposed by the court until the court otherwise releases said bond.
(Code 1959, § 7-23; Ord. No. 856-83, § 1, 10-17-83)
Sec. 3-4010. - Service of rule to show cause.
Any member of the police force of the city shall serve a copy of the rule described in section 3-4009 upon the principal and surety, if to be found in the city, personally or by leaving a copy at their usual place of abode, at least five (5) days before the time named therein for hearing the cause.
(Code 1959, § 7-24)
Sec. 3-4011. - Entry of judgment against delinquent principal and sureties.
If no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary, the judge of the city court shall proceed to enter up judgment against the principal and sureties for the amount of the bond and costs, and the clerk shall issue execution for the amount of the judgment and costs, which execution shall bear test in the name of the judge, and place the same in the hands of the chief of police who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale.
(Code 1959, § 7-25)
Sec. 3-4012. - Delivery of principal prior to judgment and forfeiture; release of surety.
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with a violation of any provision of this Code or other ordinance of the city may surrender his principal at any time before forfeiture to the chief of police of the city, who shall confine the principal until discharged by order of the city court, or until the principal shall give other good and acceptable security and the delivery of the principal by the surety as aforesaid shall discharge the surety from all liability upon the bond.
(Code 1959, § 7-26)
Sec. 3-4013. - Sureties residing beyond the county.
No officer of the city shall accept on any bail bond any surety residing beyond the limits of the county, but in case he shall do so, the surety shall be bound and upon entry of judgment against such surety, the judgment shall be collected as provided by law.
(Code 1959, § 7-27)
Sec. 3-4014. - Acceptance of money or property in lieu of bail; disposition of money pledges.
It shall be lawful to accept from any person arrested for a violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any other ordinance of the city, any money or personal property in pledge, in lieu of bail. In case money is so accepted, it shall be deposited in the city treasury within forty-eight (48) hours, unless the accused is tried within that period of time. If the person arrested shall fail to appear at the place and time of trial so appointed, it shall be the duty of the judge to declare the pledge forfeited and to order the money to be paid into the city treasury as in other fines and forfeitures, if it has not already been deposited in the treasury as above provided. If the person so arrested shall appear as engaged and is adjudged guilty and fined on his trial, the amount of the fine and costs of the trial shall be paid into the city treasury, and the remainder, if any, refunded to the accused or to the person entitled thereto.
(Code 1959, § 7-28)
Sec. 3-4015. - Sale of pledged property—Upon forfeiture.
In case property is pledged in lieu of bail and the pledge is forfeited as set out in section 3-4014 for cases of money pledges, it shall be the duty of the court to order the chief of police to sell the property at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash, at some stated time and place in the city, after having advertised the time and place and terms of the sale for at least five (5) days next preceding the day of the sale by posting written notices at three (3) or more conspicuous places in the city. The funds arising from the sale shall be paid into the city treasury by the chief of police as other fines and forfeitures.
(Code 1959, § 7-29)
Sec. 3-4016. - Same—After entry of judgment.
In case property is pledged in lieu of bail and the accused is afterwards tried and adjudged guilty and fined, then the property so pledged shall be sold as in section 3-4015 and from the proceeds of the sale the fine of the accused and costs of the trial shall be paid, and the remainder of the proceeds of the sale, the fine of the accused and costs of the trial shall be paid, and the remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid to the accused.
(Code 1959, § 7-30)
CHAPTER 5. - PRISONERS

Sec. 3-5001. - Working and confinement generally; marshal to be warden of prisons.
Persons sentenced to confinement and labor on public works shall be compelled to work on the streets, in the parks, and on other public works of the city under the guard, direction and control of the city marshal or his deputy, who is hereby constituted warden of prisoners. Prisoners not at work shall be confined.
(Code 1959, § 7-31)
Sec. 3-5002. - Food, clothes, medical care and treatment.
The persons sentenced to work on public works shall be fed, and clothed while doing such work; provided they do not have sufficient clothing already. They shall be given necessary medical attention and shall be treated in a humane manner.
(Code 1959, § 7-32)
Sec. 3-5003. - Discipline of prisoners.
When deemed necessary by the marshal, he may compel prisoners to be disciplined by appropriate humane methods.
(Code 1959, § 7-33)
Sec. 3-5004. - Delivery of prisoners to sheriff.
The city shall promptly deliver each person held for any state offense to the sheriff or his lawful deputy of the county as soon as practicable after a commitment hearing in the city court, and no person shall be detained by the city longer than is reasonable in any case under all the circumstances.
(Code 1959, § 7-34)
