ARTICLE I. - REINCORPORATION, BOUNDARIES, AND POWERS

Sec. 1-101. - Reincorporation.
By enactment of this charter, the City of East Point shall be reincorporated and shall continue as a body politic and corporate of the State of Georgia. The city shall have perpetual duration and shall be vested with all authority, rights, powers, jurisdiction, privileges, exemptions, and immunities conferred by law and shall have all duties, obligations, and liabilities imposed by law.
Sec. 1-102. - Boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter, with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of the city shall at all times be shown on a map and set forth in a written legal description, both of which shall be maintained permanently in the office of the city clerk and shall be designated as: "Official Map and Official Legal Description of the corporate limits of the City of East Point, Georgia." Copies of such map and legal description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as the original official map and legal description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of such map and the amendment of such legal description by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries of the city. A map which is redrawn or a legal description which is amended pursuant to city council ordinance shall supersede for all purposes the map and legal description which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1-103. - Powers.
(a)
Specific powers. The city shall have the following specifically enumerated powers:
(1)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(2)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purpose authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(3)
Attracting commerce and industry. To make appropriations and authorize the expenditure of money in advertising and public relations for the purpose of causing commerce and industry to locate and to remain in the city;
(4)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of regulatory fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions as authorized by Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted; to permit and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such regulatory fees and taxes; and to revoke such permits after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the incorporated limits of the city, for present or future public use deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Consolidation. To transfer or consolidate functions of the city government to or with appropriate functions of the state, county, or other municipal government or to make use of such functions of the state, county, or other municipal government;
(8)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(9)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(10)
Environmental protection. To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the city through the preservation and improvement of air quality, the restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment;
(11)
Fire regulation. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(12)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect garbage, refuse, trash collection and disposal, and other sanitary service charges, taxes, or fees for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefitting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such charges, taxes, or fees;
(13)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city; to provide for the enforcement of such standards; to adopt ordinances to protect the health, peace, safety, good order, dignity, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to prohibit and regulate conduct and activities within said city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this state, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace, good order, and dignity of the city and to the welfare and morals of its inhabitants;
(14)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(15)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(16)
Indigent defense. To contract with the office of the circuit public defender of the judicial circuit in which the city is located to provide defense counsel to indigent persons appearing before municipal courts in relation to alleged violations of municipal ordinances, county ordinances, or state law;
(17)
Intergovernmental cooperation. To cooperate or join by contract or otherwise with other cities, counties, the state or nation, or other governmental bodies, singly or jointly, or in districts or associations for promoting or carrying out any of the powers of the city or any of the purposes or objects authorized by this charter;
(18)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and other public property in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(19)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city; to provide by ordinance for the city police to impound motor vehicles and other personal property which they have lawfully seized after such vehicles have been stolen, lost, wrecked, abandoned, or wrongfully left upon streets or public or private parking lots, areas, drives, or elsewhere in the city without authority or permission of the owner; and to provide by ordinance for the sale and disposition of such property;
(20)
Municipal agencies. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and authorities of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(21)
Municipal associations. To become a member of and pay dues to the Georgia Municipal Association and the National League of Cities and in such other state, regional, or national municipal associations as to which the city would qualify as a member, and to permit officers and employees of the city to attend meetings, conferences, seminars, and conventions of such associations at city expense;
(22)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(23)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, lease, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(24)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(25)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, cable television and other telecommunications, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same;
(26)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(27)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(28)
Pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for city officials and employees, as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia;
(29)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to insure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(30)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a fire-fighting agency;
(31)
Public hazards: removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure that is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(32)
Public housing. To exercise the power and to provide services in the area of public housing; to make appropriations and to authorize expenditure of funds for such purposes; and to provide a definition of public housing;
(33)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detention, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities and to provide any other public improvements;
(34)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(35)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(36)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for or impose taxes on public utilities and public service companies and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the public service commission;
(37)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights of way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(38)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(39)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(40)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(41)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials; and to provide for the sale of such items;
(42)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers; pawn shops; the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors; and the use of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; and to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders; and to provide lawful time, manner, and location regulation of theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows;
(43)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(44)
Special tax districts. To provide by ordinance for the creation of one or more taxing districts whereby ad valorem taxes shall be assessed, levied, and collected by the city in accordance with the kind, character, type, and degree of services provided by the city within said taxing districts; to provide by ordinance that the rate of ad valorem taxation may vary in one district from that in another district or districts; and to provide by ordinance that the authority, duties, liabilities, and functions of the city may vary from tax district to tax district;
(45)
Taxes: ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(46)
Taxes: other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(47)
taxicabs and vehicles for hire. To regulate and license taxicabs and other vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles; and
(48)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate urban redevelopment programs.
(b)
General powers. In addition to all powers specifically enumerated and granted in this charter, the city shall be vested with any and all powers which municipal corporations are or may hereafter be authorized to exercise under the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia as fully and completely as though such powers were specifically enumerated in this charter. The city shall have all powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law. The powers of the city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city, and the specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city.
