ARTICLE XVI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS, CONDITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS: YARDS, HEIGHT AND AREA

Sec. 20-1601. - Commission may establish formula for modifying yard requirements.
The planning commission may, by resolution, adopt a formula or establish standard practices by which to determine an appropriate and practical modification of required yards in all residential zones where geometric shape and dimensions and topography are such as to make the literal application of such required yards impractical. After the adoption of such formula or standard practices, they shall be applied as an administrative act.
(Code 1998, § 20-1601)
Sec. 20-1602. - Measurement of front yards.
Front yard requirements shall be measured from the front property line or the indicated edge of a right-of-way for which a precise plan exists.
(Code 1998, § 20-1602)
Sec. 20-1603. - Vision clearance, corner, and reversed corner lots.
All corner lots and reversed corner lots subject to yard requirements shall maintain for safety vision purpose a triangular area one angle of which shall be formed by the front and side lot lines separating the lot from the streets, and the sides of such triangle forming the corner angle shall each be 15 feet in length, measured from the aforementioned angle. The third side of said triangle shall be a straight line connecting the last two mentioned points which are distant 15 feet from the intersection of the front and side lot lines, and within the area comprising said triangle no tree, fence, shrub or other physical obstruction higher than 42 inches above the established grade shall be permitted.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to fences required by state law to surround and enclose public utility installations.
Where a retaining wall protects a cut below the natural grade, and is located on the line separating lot, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed. Where a retaining wall contains a fill, the height of the retaining wall built to retain the fill shall be considered as contributing to the permissible height of a fence, solid wall or hedge, providing that in any event a protective fence or wall not more than 36 inches in height may be erected at the top of the training wall.
(Code 1998, § 20-1603)
Sec. 20-1604. - Required increase of side yard where multiple or row dwellings front upon a side yard.
The minimum width of the side yard upon which dwellings front shall be not less than one-half the front yard.
(Code 1998, § 20-1604)
Sec. 20-1605. - If only one building on a lot or building site it constitutes a main building.
Any building which is the only building on a lot or building site is a main building unless authorized by variance.
(Code 1998, § 20-1605)
Sec. 20-1606. - Lot area not to be reduced.
No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that the lot area, yards or other open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by this ordinance, nor shall the density of population be increased in any manner except in conformity with regulations established by this ordinance.
(Code 1998, § 20-1606)
Sec. 20-1607. - Substandard lots.
When a lot has less than the minimum required area or width as set forth in any of the zones contained herein, or in a precise plan, and was of record on the effective date of this ordinance, and had the minimum area of width required on the effective date of this ordinance, such lot shall be deemed to have complied with the minimum required lot area or width as set forth in any such zone or precise plan. The lot area per dwelling unit shall, however, remain as specified in the applicable area district, except that in no instance shall this provision prevent the erection of a single-family dwelling on any substandard lot, providing that said substandard lot had the minimum area or width on the effective date of this ordinance.
(Code 1998, § 20-1607)
