ARTICLE XXVII. - SPECIAL USES

Sec. 20-2701. - General provisions.
Special uses, as listed in the various zones of this ordinance are so classified because they more intensely dominate the area in which they are located, than do other uses permitted in the zone and as such require certain controls in order to insure compatibility with other uses in the zone within which they are proposed for location.
(Ord. of 9-18-2012(2))
Sec. 20-2702. - Application procedure.
Applications for a special use shall be submitted city manager and shall be accompanied by an application fee of $250.00.
The application shall be made on proper forms and shall be accompanied by a site plan or survey showing existing and proposed structures, uses, access drives, setbacks, easements, buffer areas, parking and loading areas and any other pertinent information necessary for proper review. The city manager shall review the special use application and the accompanying site plan for compliance with the regulations set forth in the ordinance with particular reference to these requirements established for uses in those zones in which they are proposed for location.
If the city manager finds the use to be in conformance with the ordinance and compatible with the existing uses in the area, the city manager shall forward his or her recommendation of approval, with or without additional conditions, to the city council for their final action. If the city manager finds the use not in conformance with the ordinance or non-compatible with the uses in the area then the city manager shall forward his or her recommendation of denial, and state the reason(s) of such action, to the city council for their action.
Citizens shall be notified about the city council's public hearing by placement of notice in the newspaper of general circulation in the City of Darien and by posting on the affected property a notice stating the date, time and place of the hearing before the city council and the kind of the special use being requested, at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
(Ord. of 9-18-2012(2))
Sec. 20-2703. - Approval, denial.
The city council and the city manager in reviewing the application for a special use permit should consider the following:
(a)
The effect the proposed activity will have on traffic flow along adjoining streets;
(b)
The location of off-street parking facilities;
(c)
The number, size and types of signs proposed for the site;
(d)
The amount and location of open space;
(e)
Protective screening;
(f)
Hours and manner of operation;
(g)
Outdoor lighting;
(h)
Ingress and egress to the property; and
(i)
Compatibility with surrounding land use.
The city council may approve the application as submitted, it may deny the application or it may impose conditions and safeguards deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest.
(Ord. of 9-18-2012(2))
Sec. 20-2704. - Classification and duration.
Permits issued for special uses shall bear the stamp "special use" and shall be valid only for that particular use and shall expire if the use, or operation pertaining thereto, does not commence within 12 months of the date of approval or shall cease for more than six months for any reason.
(Ord. of 9-18-2012(2))
