Chapter 94 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local solid waste management regulations, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; local comprehensive solid waste management plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; cost reimbursement fees and surcharges, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39; reduction of amount of solid waste generated in city, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.1; local restrictions on disposal of tires, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; local and regional solid waste management authorities, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 94-1. - Litter.
No person shall cause to be placed in and upon any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public ways within the city, or the city premises adjacent thereto, any wastepaper, trash, rubbish or other waste material or substance.
(Code 1974, § 10-11; Code 1995, § 86-1)
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; local ordinances regulating and controlling litter, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48; Waste Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-50 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.
Sec. 94-2. - Sweeping trash from stores.
No refuse or trash will be swept from businesses or stores in the city onto the streets or sidewalks, nor shall it be swept into the backyards of such premises.
(Code 1974, § 10-15; Code 1995, § 86-2)
State Law reference— Littering public or private property or waters, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-43; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.
Secs. 94-3—94-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION; DISPOSAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 94-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curbside means the area in front of the house immediately behind the curb of the street, and, where there is no curb and gutter, the term "curbside" shall mean and include that area in front of the house nearest and most convenient to the traveled portion of the street, the use of which will not block, hinder or obstruct vehicles or other traffic lawfully using the street.
Domestic garbage means and includes all garbage, refuse and rubbish, and shall include all household garbage, trash and waste normally and usually disposed of in the domestic garbage container.
Garbage container means a poly-kart.
Occupant, as applied to any house, building, dwelling, room, lot or premises, shall be held to include the owner, tenant or other person who, for the time being, is in possession or is in charge or control thereof, either for himself or for another, or as agent, officer or employee of a corporation.
Premises means land, buildings, or other structures, vehicles, watercraft, or parts thereof, upon or in which refuse is stored for collection.
Refuse means all solid wastes of a community, including garbage, ashes, rubbish, dead animals, leaves and limbs, street cleanings, and solid market and industrial wastes, but not including body wastes.
Responsible authority means the legally designated authority of the city who shall be authorized and directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this article, or its authorized representative.
Trash means leaves, straw, grass and other items of trash gathered up from the yard and premises of the home, such as can be placed in a plastic bag or plastic container, but not including items such as limbs, brush and such other items as cannot be placed in plastic bags or plastic containers.
(Code 1974, § 10-30; Code 1995, § 86-26; Ord. No. 1048, § 1(A)—(E), 8-3-1981)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 94-28. - Functions of city administrator/clerk.
The city manager/clerk, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of this city, is authorized and directed, by implementing and enforcing the provisions of this article, to control the storage, collection and disposal of refuse within the city, to provide a public refuse collection and refuse disposal service from designated sites and/or premises within the city so that the type and usual quantity of refuse can be safely and expeditiously handled by such public refuse collection and disposal service, and/or to approve and regulate the establishment, maintenance and operation of private refuse collection systems and refuse disposal methods and sites.
(Code 1974, § 10-31; Code 1995, § 86-27)
Sec. 94-29. - Rates and charges.
(a)
The city council will set and regulate the cost of solid waste collection.
(b)
Refuse service charges shall be payable monthly, by separate line item billing in conjunction with the water bill. Such refuse service charges shall be collected by the city manager.
(Code 1974, § 10-32(c); Code 1995, § 86-29; Ord. No. 1048, § 7, 8-3-1981)
Sec. 94-30. - Permits.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked permit from the city manager/clerk to engage in the business of refuse collection or refuse disposal for compensation in the city. The city manager/clerk shall issue permits for such applicants; provided that such permits shall be limited to persons having proper equipment and personnel to collect and dispose of refuse.
(b)
Every person desiring to engage in the collection and/or disposal of refuse shall make written application to the city manager/clerk, setting forth the name of such person, the residence address thereof or the address of the place of business, a description of the equipment to be used in the collection and/or disposal of such refuse, and the place and method of disposal to be practiced. Upon approval of this application, the city manager/clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant. The permit fee shall be $50.00, payable in advance to the city manager/clerk.
(c)
Any persons whose application for a permit under this article has been denied may request, and shall be granted an opportunity to address the council at its regular council meeting.
(d)
A permit issued under this article shall expire on the last day of each fiscal year. Permits shall be renewable annually, in the same manner and upon payment of the same annual fee as provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
It shall be unlawful to transfer a permit from one person to another for the purpose of operating a refuse collection or disposal operation.
(f)
The city reserves the right to collect its own refuse.
(Code 1974, § 10-33; Code 1995, § 86-30)
Sec. 94-31. - Prohibitions; private responsibility.
(a)
The owner or his agent, or the occupant, of any premises within the city shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of the premises occupied by him, and it shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or allow to be placed or deposited on his premises any refuse except as designated by the terms of this article.
(b)
Any person responsible for refuse on premises not served by the refuse collection system of the city, or for refuse not acceptable for collection by the city, or for refuse deemed too large for collection by the public works superintendent, shall make arrangements for the collection and disposal of such refuse with a refuse collector who holds a valid registration certificate issued by the county health officer.
(Code 1974, § 10-34; Code 1995, § 86-31)
Sec. 94-32. - Enforcement.
(a)
Whenever the city manager/clerk determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this article, he shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person responsible therefor, as provided in this section. Such notice shall:
(1)
Be put into writing;
(2)
Include a statement of reasons why it is being issued;
(3)
Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
(4)
Be served upon the holder of a permit issued under this article or upon the owner or his agent or the occupant of such premises within the city; provided that such notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when a copy thereof has been served personally, or in accordance with any other method authorized under the laws of this state.
Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this article; and such notice may state that, unless conditions or practices described in such notice which violate this article are corrected within a reasonable time as specified in such notice, the violator may be cited for a violation of this article and any permit which has been issued pursuant to this article may be suspended or revoked.
(b)
Whenever the city council finds that an emergency exists involving a serious health hazard which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the council may, without notice or hearing, issue a written order reciting the existence of such an emergency and the conditions violating this article which require corrective action to remove such health hazard. If such corrective action is not taken, the city council may take such action as may be necessary to protect the public health. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the city council shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible but in any case not later than three days after the petition was filed. After such hearing, depending upon its finding as to whether or not the provisions of this article and of the regulations adopted pursuant to this article have been complied with, the city council shall continue such order in effect, modify it, or revoke it.
(Code 1974, § 10-35; Code 1995, § 86-32)
Sec. 94-33. - Inspections.
The city manager/clerk, after identifying himself, shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1974, § 10-36; Code 1995, § 86-33)
Sec. 94-34. - Refuse acceptable for collection.
The following refuse shall be considered to be acceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Garbage. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and/or consumption of foods.
(2)
Ashes. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, or other combustible materials.
(3)
Rubbish. Nonputrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, metals, and similar materials.
(4)
Dead animals. Small dead animals not exceeding 20 pounds each in weight, which die in the normal course of community activity, excluding condemned animals, animals from a slaughterhouse, or other animals normally considered industrial refuse, shall be removed by the city upon request.
(Code 1974, § 10-37; Code 1995, § 86-34)
Sec. 94-35. - Refuse not acceptable for collection.
The following refuse shall be considered unacceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Dangerous materials or substances, such as poisons, acids, caustics, infected materials, and explosives.
(2)
Unusual quantities of materials resulting from the repair, excavation, or construction of buildings or structures, such as earth, plaster, mortar and roofing material.
(3)
Materials which have not been prepared for collection in accordance with this article.
(4)
Large amounts of leaves, limbs, and natural vegetation deemed too large for collection by the public works superintendent.
(5)
The solid wastes resulting from industrial processes.
(Code 1974, § 10-38; Code 1995, § 86-35)
Sec. 94-36. - Unlawful storage of refuse; bulky rubbish.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, abandon or leave, keep or store, or suffer or permit the placement, abandonment, leaving, keeping or storage of nonfunctioning motor vehicles and/or appliances out-of-doors upon any public or private land within the city.
(b)
This article shall be administered by the city manager/clerk. Whenever it shall appear to the city manager/clerk that this article is being violated, he shall, in writing, notify the owner or tenant in possession of the land on which the violation exists to abate such violation by removing the materials to a conforming location, or into an enclosed garage, barn, or other building, within ten days of the notice.
(c)
The city council shall devise a method to periodically inspect all premises within the city in such a manner as to systematically locate existing nonfunctioning motor vehicles and/or appliances and require the abatement thereof as provided in this section.
(d)
Bulky rubbish such as trees, weeds, and large cardboard boxes may be bundled so as not to exceed four feet in length nor 50 pounds in weight. All other refuse shall be stored as provided in division 2 of this article. Bulk storage containers can be used if they are of a type which can be mechanically emptied by refuse trucks. Plastic or paper refuse sacks can be used if they are of a type accepted by the state and/or local health officials, and if at least twice weekly collection is provided.
(e)
Garbage shall be drained and wrapped.
(f)
It shall be unlawful to permit refuse, except bulky rubbish, to accumulate on any premises except in containers which are approved by the city council in accordance with the specifications contained in this article.
(g)
Ashes containing hot embers shall not be placed in containers for collection.
(h)
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, remove covers, overturn, or otherwise damage trash receptacles or to create litter or health problems.
(Code 1974, § 10-39; Code 1995, § 86-36)
Sec. 94-37. - Tree limbs, cuttings; placing.
All trash deposited on a public place for collection by city employees shall be stacked by the street in a place easily accessible to the city trucks.
(Code 1974, § 10-1637)
Sec. 94-38. - Extent of service.
(a)
The city shall collect all refuse acceptable for collection, as provided in section 94-34, from all single-family dwellings and from all multifamily or apartment dwellings, and all types of institutions, businesses and industrial establishments.
(b)
Collections may be made on legal holidays unless otherwise specified by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall make known to the public the day or days when refuse pickup will be provided to each section of the community. Also, any major changes to such schedule will be made known at least three weeks in advance of the proposed change.
(Code 1974, § 10-40; Code 1995, § 86-38)
State Law reference— Public and legal holidays, O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1.
Sec. 94-39. - Vehicle equipment.
(a)
All public or private vehicles used for the collection or disposal of refuse shall have enclosed bodies or suitable provision for covering the body. Provision and use of a tarpaulin or canvas cover to enclose open bodies of collection vehicles may be permitted when specifically approved by the city council.
(b)
Vehicles used for the collection or disposal of garbage, or of refuse containing garbage, shall have watertight, metal bodies of easily cleanable construction, shall be cleaned at sufficient frequency to prevent nuisance or insect breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair.
(Code 1974, § 10-43; Code 1995, § 86-39)
Sec. 94-40. - Refuse disposal.
(a)
All disposal of refuse shall be by a method in accordance with requirements of state and local law and shall include the maximum practicable rodent, insect, and nuisance control at the place or places of disposal.
(b)
There shall be no burning at any public disposal site within the city, and any fires at these sites which have been started accidentally, intentionally, or by spontaneous combustion will be extinguished immediately.
(c)
Animal offal and carcasses of dead animals shall be buried or cremated as directed by the city council or shall be rendered at 40 pounds per square inch of steam pressure or higher, or shall be heated by equivalent cooking.
(Code 1974, § 10-42; Code 1995, § 86-40)
Secs. 94-41—94-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DOMESTIC GARBAGE

Sec. 94-51. - Placement for collection.
All domestic garbage shall be picked up only from curbside of the street or alley, and it shall be the duty of every occupant having any accumulation of domestic garbage to be picked up to place such garbage at curbside, on a side street, or at the alley in a poly-kart or plastic bag or plastic container of a kind and quality as described in this division, on the day and at the time selected and advertised by the city garbage department for domestic garbage pickup in each particular area of the city. However, where there is a side street or a used alley back of the lot, all garbage containers, trash containers, limbs, brush and other items which cannot be placed in a poly-kart, plastic bag or plastic container shall be placed adjacent to the side street or the alley where same can be picked up. All poly-karts so placed shall have the lid firmly fastened in place, and every bag or plastic container shall be in good condition without tears or leaks and securely tied or fastened.
(Code 1995, § 86-51; Ord. No. 1048, §§ 1(D), 2, 8-3-1981)
Sec. 94-52. - Use of poly-karts.
(a)
The head of the house of each family receiving a poly-kart will sign an acknowledgement of the kart, which acknowledgement will bear the same number that the poly-kart bears, and when the family removes from the premises where the poly-kart is placed they will notify the city administrator/clerk of their removal and the administrator/clerk will in turn sign an acknowledgement for the return of such kart. It is further provided that the head of the house shall, at his expense, repair any poly-kart in his care that is damaged (except such damage as results from normal wear and tear) and replace any such poly-kart that is lost or destroyed. If any person wishes a second poly-kart, he is privileged to have it by paying for it at the current cost price, and such poly-kart shall be his property. All other poly-karts shall remain the property of the city.
(b)
A deposit fee of $10.00 will be assessed on all users to ensure the necessary care and maintenance of the poly-kart.
(c)
For those multifamily units in which garbage fees are borne by the management authority or corporation/owner, the management of these housing units will be held responsible for the poly-karts, service costs and deposits.
(Code 1995, § 86-52; Ord. No. 1048, §§ 1(D)(a), 6, 8, 9, 8-3-1981)
Sec. 94-53. - Collection times; removal of poly-kart.
(a)
The city garbage department shall give public notice of the day and time the garbage pickup will be made in each area of the city so that curbside or sidestreet or alley placement of poly-karts or plastic containers may be complied with by the occupant on the day and time when collection and pickup shall be made.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the householder to remove the poly-kart from the street or alley promptly after it is unloaded by the city.
(Code 1995, § 86-53; Ord. No. 1048, § 3, 8-3-1981)
Sec. 94-54. - Special collections for disabled or handicapped persons.
In every case where a house or other dwelling is occupied solely by a disabled or handicapped person, or solely by persons physically unable to accomplish curbside or alley placement of garbage containers, special arrangement will be made with the garbage department to accomplish pickup.
(Code 1995, § 86-54; Ord. No. 1048, § 4, 8-3-1981)
Sec. 94-55. - Nuisance accumulations prohibited.
It shall be unlawful and constitute a nuisance for any person to create or cause an unhealthy odoriferous accumulation of garbage by willfully failing to place garbage for collection as set out in this article.
(Code 1995, § 86-55; Ord. No. 1048, § 5, 8-3-1981)
