Chapter 20 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4); damaging public property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25; Georgia Code of Public Transportation, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-1 et seq.; governmental authorization for construction or maintenance of any private road unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 32-1-8; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; grants for construction and maintenance of county roads, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - Criteria and standards.
(a)
Geometric design of improvements will conform to the state department of transportation's current approved standards. The desirable conditions in these standards will apply for each project, except where physical conditions dictate that all the desirable features cannot be obtained. In these instances minimum design features may be acceptable.
(b)
Bridges shall be 24 feet wide, curb-to-curb, unless otherwise approved by the state highway engineer. Right-of-way requirements for a two-lane rural road section will be a minimum of 80 feet. In those instances where the county grades and drains a roadway at its own expense on projects with less than 80 feet of right-of-way but not less than 60 feet of right-of-way, the base and pavement may be provided through a county contract, but in all instances the roadway must be adequately drained. For city street improvements, the minimum width for a two-lane connector street shall be no less than 28 feet, curb-to-curb. Minimum right-of-way width for this section shall be 40 feet. Where a rural section is designed for a city street, the minimum right-of-way shall be 60 feet. On arterial streets or streets on the state highway system where county contracts are authorized the width shall be not less than 44, feet, curb-to-curb, on a right-of-way of 60 feet. Streets which are proposed to be four lanes or are to be constructed initially as two lanes and expected to require four lanes in the future to serve anticipated traffic volumes, shall be no less than 48 feet, curb-to-curb. Minimum right-of-way width for this section shall be 60 feet. These widths are to be at least 64 feet and 80 feet respectively, when parking is to be permitted. Minimum right-of-way width for projects which involve only resurfacing of existing pavements shall be that required for the resurfacing and to provide for adequate drainage. In all of the above right-of-way requirements a lesser right-of-way width shall be considered where the district engineer certifies that the lesser width is adequate for construction, drainage and maintenance of the project.
(Code 1999, § 15-1; Mo. of 2-4-1982)
Sec. 20-2. - Driveway drainage pipes.
(a)
The county shall install all driveway drainage pipes.
(b)
The cost to the requesting land owner shall be uniform and established from time to time by resolution of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1999, § 15-2; Res. of 8-22-1975, § 4; Ord. No. 15 of 2018, 5-17-2018)
Sec. 20-3. - PVC pipe.
Plastic pipe with a minimum wall thickness of three-fourths inches (PVC) may be used for driveways upon approval by the road superintendent.
(Code 1999, § 15-3; Mo. of 5-3-1990)
Secs. 20-4—20-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UTILITY ENCROACHMENTS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 20-25. - Violation of article.
(a)
No person accused of violating this article shall be arrested prior to trial, but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and shall be required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(b)
Nothing in this article shall prevent the board of commissioners from bringing any civil action to present, correct or abate any violation of this article. No penalty or remedy prescribed in this Code shall be considered exclusive of any other remedy, but shall be available in addition to any other penalty or remedy by law.
(Code 1999, § 15-31; Ord. of 6-20-1985, §§ 3(b), 4(c))
Sec. 20-26. - Location of utilities.
All utilities crossing the right-of-way should be placed three feet below the ditch bottom and those running parallel with the right-of-way or the roadway should be placed either two feet inside the right-of-way on the back slope or on paved roads three feet from the edge of the pavement 2.5 feet deep. Cuts may not exceed 12 inches.
(Code 1999, § 15-32; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-27. - Allocation of costs.
(a)
The entire cost of installing, maintaining, repairing, operating or using the pole line, buried cable, pipeline or miscellaneous facility, performing miscellaneous operations and any other expense whatsoever incidental to the facilities or operations authorized by the permit shall be paid for by the applicant.
(b)
The applicant shall, in addition to the payment required by subsection (a) of this section, reimburse the county for any reasonable and necessary expense that the department may incur in connection with the facilities or operation authorized by the permit required by this article. The reimbursement to the county shall be made by the applicant within 30 days after receiving a statement from the chairperson of the county board of commissioners.
(c)
The applicant, upon notification in writing by the county manager, shall pay a reasonable market price for any materials removed from the right-of-way or destroyed as a result of operations authorized by the permit.
(Code 1999, § 15-33; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-28. - Safety requirements.
(a)
The applicant shall employ any and all methods in performing the operations authorized by the permit required by this article which the chairperson of the board of commissioners or designated agent may require in order to properly protect the public from injury and the highway from damage.
(b)
During the initial installation or construction of the facilities authorized by the permit, or during any future repair, removal or relocation thereof, or during any miscellaneous operations, the applicant shall at all times maintain such flagmen, signs, lights, flares, barricades and other safety devices as the chairperson may reasonably deem necessary to properly protect traffic upon the highway, and to warn and safeguard the public against injury or damage. The applicant shall maintain a watchman, as required, to maintain such signs, flares, barricades and other safety devices during nonwork hours and shall upon request furnish the county warden the telephone number and/or address of such watchman.
(c)
The applicant shall so conduct his operations so that there will be a minimum of interference with or interruption of traffic upon and along the highway. Except in emergencies, there shall be no interference with or interruption of traffic upon and along the road or highway until a plan for the satisfactory handling of traffic has been worked out and approved by the chairperson of the board of commissioners or the county road superintendent as soon as practicable.
(d)
All roads should be bored where feasibly possible. Dry bore or controlled wet bore shall be employed.
(e)
Any supervision and/or control exercised by the county road superintendent shall in no way relieve the applicant of any duty or responsibility to the general public, nor shall such supervision and/or control relieve the applicant from any liability for loss, damage or injury to persons or property.
(Code 1999, § 15-34; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-29. - Repairing of cuts.
Any area where grass is destroyed shall be re-grassed. All applicants shall comply with the following county specifications:
(1)
All cuts across or into county paved roads shall:
a.
First, be tamped by pneumatic tamp.
b.
Filled with eight inches of concrete.
c.
Finished with two inches of asphalt.
(2)
Final inspection shall be approved by either the chairperson of the board of commissioners or a designated agent, i.e., county road superintendent.
(3)
The applicant shall re-grass to state highway department specifications all county right-of-way area which is damaged or disturbed during work authorized in this section.
(Code 1999, § 15-35; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-30. - County's right to cause taking up of relocating facility.
If the board of commissioners should in the future decide to relocate or widen the existing road, the county reserves the right to require the utility owner to take up and relay such sections of the facility which may be necessary from an engineering standpoint. The taking up and relaying shall be at the expense of the utility owner, without regard to the type of road construction or maintenance work involved.
(Code 1999, § 15-36; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Secs. 20-31—20-48. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - UTILITY PERMITS

Sec. 20-49. - Required; application, plan.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any utility facility, public, private or otherwise, to encroach upon any public road maintained by the county outside the city limits of any municipality in the county, except rural road projects, without first applying to and obtaining a permit from the board of commissioners. Such application shall be in substantially the following form:
EXPAND
TO: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CHARLTON COUNTY
FOLKSTON, GEORGIA 31537
  Application is hereby made by (Name of Applicant—Utility Owner—Municipality)
_____
(Mailing Address)
For permission to make the following described utility installation within the limit of rights-of-way for County Maintained Road No. _____ in Charlton County:
Description of utility to be installed, etc.: _____
Location of utility and/or any other to be installed: _____
The utility covered hereby shall be installed with the attached plan and subject to the printed Rules and Regulations for the Control and Protection of County Maintained Roads and Rights-Of-Way, on file in the county commissioners' office and made a part hereof by reference thereto, and particularly to the applicable provisions of the Rules and Regulations shown on page 2 of this permit and any special requirements set forth herein, and applicant by making this application hereby agrees to comply with and be bound by such Rules and Regulations.
Special requirements: (as shown on page 2)
Permit requested this ___ day of ________, 20___.
EXPAND
By: _____
(Applicant—Utility Owner)
Witness to Signature of Applicant:
_____
_____
(Print or type names below signature; also show title of officer authorized to execute permit for Corporate Body)
  Permit granted to make the above described Utility Facility and/or any installation in accordance with the applicable section of the printed Rules and Regulations hereby made a part of this permit by reference thereto, this ___ day of ________, 20___.
This permit is to be strictly construed and no work other than that specifically described above is hereby authorized. Subsequent normal maintenance excepted.
EXPAND
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
CHARLTON COUNTY
By: _____
Clerk
  The installation described on this permit form has been completed in accordance with the provisions of the permit and the plan attached hereto.
Date _____ Signed _____
(b)
The application shall include:
(1)
Name and a mailing address of owner or lessee, statement and description of the type of work intended and three copies of a plan. The plan should show the centerline and the right-of-way line indicating width, also the width of pavement, the location of existing driveways and drainage structures, elevation and/or sections when necessary and the boundaries of the contemplated work. When the grading is proposed, the drainage plan shall be shown. The plan must contain a certified plat or drawing showing the exact location where the utility line or structure shall be placed including the depth of any underground line.
(2)
County, state route number, and distance from geographical point such as intersecting highways, city or village corporate limits, or county highways.
(Code 1999, § 15-46; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1; Ord. of 6-2-1983)
Sec. 20-50. - Qualifications of applicants.
Applications for permits pursuant to this division will be accepted only from a political entity, an individual, partnership or corporation, or other body recognized by law as owning all or the major interest in the property abutting the highway right-of-way, or the proposed facility, which will be principally affected by the performance of the work covered by the permit or by the lessee of property or business. Such qualified persons will be referred to in this division as applicants.
(Code 1999, § 15-47; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-51. - Place of filing.
Application and permit forms required by this division will be filed with the county clerk's office.
(Code 1999, § 15-48; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-52. - Specifications.
(a)
Enumerated. The provision of any permit granted pursuant to this division shall be construed as regulatory and not as contractual. No interest or right of an applicant shall be transferred to another except by written consent of the board of commissioners. No inherent or retained right or privilege belonging to any abutting property owner is affected, interfered with or abridged through, or because of, this division or any permit issued pursuant to this division, nor is the county or state highway department responsible for any damage claim which may arise between the applicant and any property owner concerning such right-of-way, its occupancy or use.
(b)
County manager's decision final. The decision of the county manager or his designated agent shall be final and conclusive with respect to any of the conditions, terms, stipulations and provisions of the permit. This shall not foreclose the applicants' right of appeal.
(Code 1999, § 15-49; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-53. - Costs.
The board of commissioners shall establish, from time to time, the amount of the charges for permits for right-of-way encroachments.
(Code 1999, § 15-50; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
Sec. 20-54. - Revocation.
Any permit granted by the county manager or his designee shall be revocable at the pleasure of the county manager. If any facilities after construction become dangerous, unsafe or a nuisance to the traveling public using the highways, or if such facilities should create any unreasonable interference with the proper use of the highways by the traveling public, or in case it becomes necessary to use all the right-of-way to widen the existing roadway or to construct service roads or to make any other revisions in location, alignment or grade of the roadway, making the approved entrance plan impractical, hazardous or otherwise objectionable, the permit for such work may be revoked; provided, however, that the permittee shall be given ten days' written notice prior to such revocation.
(Code 1999, § 15-51; Ord. of 2-4-1976, § 1)
