Chapter 12 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); powers and duties of county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373; County boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-1. - Rules, regulations incorporated by reference.
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the Charlton County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of Charlton County, Georgia. This section specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of this ordinance:
(a)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 290-5-14 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to Food Service;
(b)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(c)
Rules and regulations for mass gatherings (adopted by the department of public and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-2 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to mass gatherings;
(d)
Rules and regulations pertaining to drinking water supply (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-3 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to drinking water supply;
(e)
Rules and regulations pertaining to solid waste (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-4 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to solid waste;
(f)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-5 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(g)
Rules and regulations pertaining to portable sanitation contractors (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-6 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to portable sanitation;
(h)
Rules and regulations pertaining to Georgia Smoke Free Air Act of 2005 (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-7 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to smoke free air;
(i)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-4-2 and the "rabies control ordinance" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to rabies control;
(j)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations (adopted by the department of public health and the Charlton County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-2 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(k)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art and/or tattooing (adopted by the department of public health and/or the Charlton County Board of Health and being rules and regulations for body art studios and artists as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Charlton County Board of Health pertaining to body art and/or tattooing; and
A copy of all these rules and regulations are attached to this ordinance.
(Code 1999, § 11-1; Ord. of 10-4-2007(03); Ord. No. 8 of 2016, § I, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 12-2. - Enforcement of chapter.
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the Charlton County Board of Commissioners, and by virtue of this ordinance is hereby expressly delegated to the Charlton County Board of Health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of Charlton County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Charlton County. The Charlton County Board of Health is directed to implement procedures which will insure that the citizens of Charlton County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Charlton County will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the State of Georgia.
(Code 1999, § 11-2; Ord. of 8-7-1986, § I; Ord. No. 8 of 2016, § II, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 12-3. - Violation of chapter—Prosecution in magistrate's court or state court.
The magistrate's court of Charlton County shall have jurisdiction over violators of this ordinance and all procedures for enforcement of such ordinance shall be as provided in Article 4, Chapter 10 of Title 15, Official Code of Georgia. Complaints of violation of any provision of this ordinance shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the Charlton County Board of Health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
(Code 1999, § 11-3; Ord. of 8-7-1986, § IV; Ord. No. 8 of 2016, § IV, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 12-4. - Same—Penalty.
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this ordinance and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days. Any failure of payment of inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by Charlton County Board of Health and approved the Charlton County Board of Commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
(Code 1999, § 11-4; Ord. of 8-7-1986, § III; Ord. No. 8 of 2016, § III, 3-22-2016)
Sec. 12-5. - Acts of tattooing and body piercing.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Body piercing means the creation of an opening in an individual's body, other than the individual's ear, to insert jewelry or other decoration.
Tattoo means to mark or color the skin by pricking, piercing or implanting indelible pigments or dyes under the skin.
(b)
Acts of tattooing and body piercing banned within the county. No acts of tattooing or body piercing shall be allowed within the territorial limits of the county, except if performed by a licensed physician for a medical purpose.
(c)
Violation of section is a misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor offense, punishable according to the general penalties described in sections 1-13 and 1-14.
(d)
Enforcement. Deputies of the county sheriff's office, a county code enforcement officer, and the county attorney are authorized to prosecute violations of this section by citation or accusation.
(e)
Jurisdiction of the magistrate's court of the county or state court over violators. The magistrate's court of the county or state court shall have jurisdiction over violators of this section. Complaints of violation of this section shall be brought before the magistrate's court or state court by an authorized individual and may be prosecuted in such court. However, individuals prosecuted under this section shall have the right to request a trial by jury in any other court of competent jurisdiction, with such right invoked by a written request tendered to the magistrate's court or state court prior to the submission of evidence by the prosecutor.
(Ord. of 9-4-2003, § 11-5)
