Chapter 14 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.; municipal authority to require by ordinance the repair, closing, or demolition of unfit dwellings or other unfit structures intended for human habitation, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CLEAN COMMUNITY

Sec. 14-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
Building materials means any material such as lumber, roofing material, brick, concrete block, plaster, gutters, sand, gravel or other substances used in repair or alteration of existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing buildings.
Business trash means a form of waste such as dust, paper, cardboard, excelsior or other substances which are usually attendant to the operation of stores, offices, commercial buildings and similar type activities.
Commercial establishment means any building devoted to retail or wholesale sales, uses, religious uses, governmental uses or other nonresidential uses.
Household trash means a form of waste such as paper, sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, cans or other materials of any kind, other than garbage, which is normally attendant to the occupancy of a building for dwelling purposes.
Junk means any dilapidated furniture, appliance, vehicle, machinery, equipment or other items which is either in a partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition.
Litter means all garbage, refuse, waste materials, sand, gravel, slag, brick bats, rubbish, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals or any other discarded, used or unconsumed substance.
Refuse means solid waste consisting of garbage, household trash or business trash as defined in this section.
Road orstreet. The terms "road" and "street" are mutually inclusive, and likewise include any alley, lane, court and other thoroughfare, however described or designated.
Rubbish means and includes waste, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metal, cans, glass, packing material and similar material.
Screened area means an area that is totally surrounded by uniform material, not of patchwork type material, all of the same color and design. Screening materials may be of steel or other metals, durable woods such as hard cypress, redwood or other wood treated with a preservative or walls of masonry, concrete block, brick, stone or other like material. The fencing material may be chainlink type fencing with aluminum, steel, plastic or wood slat inserts or of wooden type with basket weave, palisade, board-on-board, louver or other like material and design. Also, the screening material may be an earthen wall, grassed and landscaped. Screens shall not be used for advertising purposes except that a space no larger than six feet by 12 feet may be used to advertise the business of the owner.
Small dead animals means cats, dogs, small household pets and other animals of similar size having a weight of less than 100 pounds.
Trash means any business trash, household trash or yard trash.
Yard trash means a form of waste such as tree branches, tree limbs, parts of trees, bushes, shrubbery cuttings or clippings or lawn grass or dry leaf rakings, or other natural waste.
(Code 1999, § 9-86; Ord. of 1-6-1994, § 2)
Sec. 14-41. - Public health nuisances.
No person shall create upon his property or property occupied by him a public health nuisance or to allow a public health nuisance to remain on his property or property occupied by him. Dead animals, stagnant water, the accumulation of decayed vegetables, fruits, refuse, garbage, trash, litter, building materials, rubbish, junk or anything that may cause injury or damage to the health or life or property of any other person, are declared nuisances.
(Code 1999, § 9-87; Ord. of 1-6-1994, § 3)
Sec. 14-42. - Maintenance of premises.
(a)
No person shall maintain his premises, including vacant lots or land, in such a way as to allow trash, litter, garbage, refuse, building materials, rubbish, small dead animals or junk to accumulate, so that the condition of the property causes a nuisance or causes injury to the neighboring property, and no removal efforts are instituted within 30 days of notice by the county of the existence of the nuisance. Any failure of an owner or occupant of property to remove and correct any such accumulation as mentioned herein after 30 days' written notice from the county shall raise the presumption that such person intended to violate this article.
(b)
No person shall leave outside any building in a place accessible to children any appliance, refrigerator or other container which has an airtight snap lock or similar device without first removing therefrom the lock or door. This section does not apply to any appliances, refrigerators or containers which have been crated, strapped or locked so that it is impossible for a child to obtain access to any compartment thereof.
(Code 1999, § 9-88; Ord. of 1-6-1994, §§ 4, 5)
Sec. 14-43. - Exemption.
This article shall not apply to junk or building materials located on any parcel of land situated more than 1,000 feet from any street or federal highway or 500 feet from any occupied residence, church, commercial establishment or public park or public use facility, and there exists a vegetated buffer of at least 200 feet within the separation area.
(Code 1999, § 9-90; Ord. of 1-6-1994, § 7)
Sec. 14-44. - Junk or building materials; enclosure.
It shall not be a violation of this article for any person to accumulate junk or building materials on any property for his personal use or for sale if such junk or building materials is completely enclosed within a building or contained within a screened area.
(Code 1999, § 9-91; Ord. of 1-6-1994, § 8)
Sec. 14-45. - Penalty.
(a)
No person accused of violating this article shall be arrested prior to trial, but any person who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post bond for his future appearance.
(b)
Violations of this article shall be tried upon citations which shall be issued to an alleged violator of any provisions of this article. Such citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service and shall be signed by the representative of the county who completes and serves it. The citation may be served by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(c)
Citations issued under this article may be tried without a prosecuting attorney, however, in the event the prosecuting attorney is needed the county attorney shall serve as the prosecuting attorney.
(d)
Violations of this article shall be tried in the magistrate court or state court of the county and shall be tried in accordance with O.C.G.A. chapter 15-10.
(e)
Nothing in this article shall prevent the board of commissioners from bringing any civil action for injunction, or other proceedings to present, correct or abate any violation of this article or other state or federal law. No sanction, penalty or remedy prescribed in this section shall be considered exclusive of any other remedy, but shall be available in addition to any other sanctions, penalties or remedies provided by law.
(f)
Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1999, § 9-93; Ord. of 1-6-1994, § 10)
Sec. 14-46. - Citation service.
Citations for the violation or alleged violation of the Clean Community Ordinance of Charlton County, Georgia, adopted January 6, 1994, as may be amended, shall be issued and served upon the person or persons alleged to have violated said ordinance, and said citation shall require said persons to appear in the magistrate court or state court at a date and time certain to answer said charges.
(Ord. of 11-2-2000, § 1)
Sec. 14-47. - Building inspector to serve citation.
The county building inspector or a county code enforcement officer is hereby appointed as the agent of the county board of commissioners for the purpose of serving said citation and any other notices provided for by said ordinance.
(Ord. of 11-2-2000, § 2)
Secs. 14-48—14-69. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NOISE

Sec. 14-70. - Prohibited conduct.
(a)
Prohibition. It shall be unlawful and shall be held a violation of this article for any person, group of persons, regardless of number, to willfully make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any loud, raucous and disturbing noise, which shall mean any sound which, because of its volume level, duration and character, annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary reason sensibilities within the county. The term "loud, raucous and disturbing noise" is limited to loud, raucous and disturbing noises heard on the public streets, on any public property, school or other public building or grounds thereof when in use, in any church, hospital or grounds thereof when occupied, or in or upon any residential property which is not the source of such noise.
(b)
Evaluation. In determining whether a noise is unreasonably loud, raucous and disturbing, the following factors incident to such noise shall be considered:
(1)
Time of day;
(2)
Proximity to residences;
(3)
Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant;
(4)
The volume and intensity;
(5)
Whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any electronic or mechanical means;
(6)
The character and population density of the area; and
(7)
Whether the noise is subject to being controlled without unreasonable effort or expense to the creator thereof.
(c)
Declared nuisances. The following acts are declared to be nuisances in violation of this article, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Prohibited hours for noises. Making loud, raucous and disturbing noise or sound between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., if such noise is plainly audible across any residential property line shall be held to be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article; and
(2)
Continuation of noise after notice. Continuing to make, create or knowingly assist in creating a loud, raucous and disturbing noise or sound after receiving actual notice that such noises or sounds are disturbing residents or other persons in the vicinity shall be held to be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
(d)
Exemption. The following shall be exempt from the application of this article:
(1)
Agricultural and horticultural. Noise resulting from agricultural and horticultural operations conducted in a reasonable manner and during reasonable hours;
(2)
Authorized emergency vehicles. Noise resulting from any authorized emergency or public safety vehicle when responding to an emergency call or acting in the time of an emergency;
(3)
Safety, warning signals. Noise of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure valves;
(4)
Emergency repair. Noise resulting from emergency work needed to restore property to a safe condition after a fire, accident or natural disaster, or to restore public utilities;
(5)
Motor vehicles. Noise from motor vehicles in proper operating condition and properly equipped with the manufacturers' standard mufflers and noise reducing equipment;
(6)
Military or law enforcement activities. Noise resulting from any military or law enforcement activities of the federal, state or local government;
(7)
Construction noises between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Noise generated in construction operations between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., so long as reasonable steps to abate construction noise are taken;
(8)
Landscaping noises between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Noise generated by lawn mowers and other landscaping equipment used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. so long as such equipment is in proper working order and equipped with manufacturers' noise reduction equipment;
(9)
Bells or chimes from churches, clocks, schools, etc. Noise of any bell or chime which emanates from any church, building clock, school or public building;
(10)
Hunting. Noise from dogs and/or firearms while being used in a lawful hunt; and
(11)
Firearms used in training, sport shooting. Noise from firearms while being used in law enforcement training or sport shooting such as clay shoots, turkey shoots and the like.
(e)
Enforcement. The terms of this article shall be enforced by any and all qualified law enforcement officers and any person so designated by the county board of commissioners. Violations of this article may be prosecuted on accusation or summons in the magistrates court or state court.
(f)
Penalty. Violation of this article may be punished according to section 1-13.
(Ord. of 8-3-2006)
