Sec. 26. - (Restatement) Same—Duties, bond.
The city manager must devote all of his working time and attention to the affairs of the city, and shall be directly responsible to the commission for the efficient and businesslike administration of all the affairs of the city. He shall give bond for the faithful performance of his duties in some bonding company to be approved by the commission in such amount as the commission may deem best. The premiums on said bond shall be paid by the city. The city manager shall have power and it shall be his duty:
(a)
To see that all laws and ordinances of the city are enforced.
(b)
To appoint the heads of all the departments of the city government, subject to the confirmation of the commission except those whose election is specifically vested in said commission to appoint and employ, with the advice of the heads of the several departments of the city government, all other necessary employees of the city. The power to appoint the necessary employees of the city shall be vested in the city manager, but he shall advise with the heads of the several departments in making such appointments.
(c)
To remove the heads of the departments appointed by him without the consent of the commission, but he shall be required to state in writing to the commission the reason and causes for such removal; to remove all other city employees appointed by him without assigning reason to the commission. In removing subordinate employees, the city manager shall confer with the head of the department under whom the said employee works, and shall so far as possible act through said department head, but the final power to remove shall be vested in the city manager.
(d)
To exercise supervision and control of all departments and divisions created herein, or that may be hereafter created by the commission, except as otherwise provided in this Act. Nothing herein shall be construed to vest any power of control or supervision in the city manager over those departments of the city government not included in this Act, among which are the board of education and the park and tree commission and the sinking fund commission, except such powers of supervision as are exercised by the mayor and board of aldermen [city commission] under the present Charter.
(e)
To attend all meetings of the commission, with the right to take part in the discussion, but having no vote. The city manager shall have right to notice of all special meetings of the commission.
(f)
To recommend to the commission the adoption of such measures as he may deem necessary or expedient.
(g)
To see that all the terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or its inhabitants in any public utility franchise are faithfully kept and performed, and upon knowledge of any violations thereof call the same to the attention of the city attorney, whose duty it shall be to forthwith take such steps as may be necessary to protect and enforce the same.
(h)
To take and execute all lawful contracts on behalf of the city with the approval of the commission, except such as may otherwise be provided by law, or by ordinance passed by the commission. No contract, purchase or obligation involving more than $100.00 shall be binding until and after approval by the commission.
(i)
To act as budget commissioner and as such to prepare and submit to the commission prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of proposed expenditures for the ensuing year, showing in as much detail as practicable the amounts allotted to each department of the city government and the reason for such estimated expenditures, and also the estimated revenues for said year.
(j)
To keep the commission at all times fully advised as to the financial condition and the needs of the city.
(k)
To make a full written report to the commission on the first of each month, showing the operations and expenditures of each department of the city government for the preceding month. A synopsis of such reports may, in the discretion of the commission, be published each month.
(l)
To fix all salaries and compensation of department heads, and all other city employees, not otherwise provided for in this Act, subject to the supervision, control, or disapproval of the commission.
(m)
To perform all such other duties as may be prescribed by this Act or required of the city manager by ordinance or regulation of the commission.
(n)
To act as the executive and administrative head of the city government in all its affairs.
(1922 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), p. 1087, § 19; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 877), p. 3899, § 1)
