Sec. 9. - (Revision) Same—Composition, election, etc.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Charter or any amendatory Acts thereto:
(1)
The commission of the City of Waycross shall be composed of five commissioners elected from the election districts described in Section 6.1 of this Act [Charter]. Each member shall reside within the election district he represents and each member shall be elected by a majority of the qualified electors voting within each district. Each member of the commission shall, at the time he qualifies to run for office, be a resident of the election district which he seeks to represent, be at least 25 years of age, and be a qualified voter of the City of Waycross. Each member of the commission shall, during his term of office, continue to meet such qualifications.
(2)
Members of the commission of the City of Waycross who are in office on January 31, 1989, and who represent Election Districts 1, 2, and 3 shall serve until the expiration of the terms to which they were elected. At the city election held in 1989 and at the city election held every four years thereafter, the members of the commission representing Election Districts 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected for terms of office of four years beginning on January 1 following such elections.
(3)
Members of the commission of the City of Waycross who are in office on January 31, 1989, and who represent Election Districts 4 and 5 shall serve until the expiration of the terms to which they were elected. At the city election held in 1991 and at the city election held every four years thereafter, the members of the commission representing Election Districts 4 and 5 shall be elected for terms of office of four years beginning on January 1 following such elections.
(4)
In the event a vacancy occurs on the commission for any reason other than the expiration of the term of office, the commission or those remaining shall order a special election to elect a member to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. The commissioner elected to fill the vacancy must meet the qualifications set forth in paragraph (1) of this section and shall be elected by a majority of the qualified electors voting within the election district in which the vacancy occurs. The special election shall be held and conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Municipal Elections Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.].
(5)
All members of the commission shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
(6)
(A)
Except as authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any member of the commission shall hold any other city office or city employment; and neither the mayor nor any member of the commission shall be an employee of Ware County, Georgia, during the term for which elected.
(B)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the commission shall vote upon or sign any ordinance, resolution, contract, or other matter in which he is personally interested.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 616), p. 4916, § 2)
