Sec. 38. - (Restatement) Public improvements generally.
Be it further enacted, that said city commission shall have power and authority to open, lay out, widen, grade, straighten, vacate, close, abolish, curb, pave, drain, alter, or otherwise change and keep in good order and repair, renew and repave the streets, alleys, lanes, bridges, sidewalks, crossways, drains and gutters within the limits of said city, and to improve and light the same and keep them free from obstructions for the use of the public or of any of the citizens of said city; to regulate the width of sidewalks and other streets; to compel the owners or lessees of property to pave, repair, renew, and repave the streets and put down, repair and renew curbing and sidewalks along the same under the direction of the proper officers or committee of said city; and said city and the city commission thereof are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to drain, grade, pave, macadamize, repair, renew and repave and improve the public streets, alleys and lanes and sidewalks of said city, and to put down, repair, and renew curbing, side drains, crossdrains, crossings and other improvements thereon; and to charge, assess and collect the expense thereof as provided by the Act of the General Assembly of Georgia amending the Charter of the City of Waycross, approved the 22nd day of August, 1905, providing for paving and improving the streets, alleys, sidewalks, etc., in said city, and assessing the cost thereof, etc., except that where executions are issued they shall be signed and issued by the clerk of the council, instead of the city treasurer. The method provided in said Act approved August 22, 1905, as aforesaid, is hereby made available for and applicable to renewing, repairing and repaving the streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbing, crossdrains and crossings of said city, and the city commission of said city is hereby authorized and empowered to use said method for said purposes whenever, in its discretion, it shall deem such work or improvement necessary. Likewise, said city commission may cause the owners and occupants of property abutting on the public streets of the city to put out suitable shade trees along the streets and sidewalks in front of their property; and in the event such persons fail or refuse to put out such shade trees within ten days after being notified to do so, said city commission, through its appropriate committee or officer may set out shade trees of a suitable variety along the public streets and sidewalks of the city in front of said property, and charge and assess the expense of same against such real estate in front of which said trees are so set out and against the owner or owners thereof, and in the event the bills for said trees and expense of setting them out are not promptly paid, executions may be issued against the real estate so assessed and against the owner thereof and levied and collected as provided by the aforesaid Act amending the Charter of the City of Waycross by providing for the paving and improving of streets, etc., approved August 22, 1905.
(1909 Ga. Laws (Act No. 287), p. 1456, ยง 20; 1915 Ga. Laws (Act No. 179), p. 964, ยง 7)
