Subpart B - CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS OF LOCAL APPLICATION
ARTICLE I. - TAX FOR PROMOTION OF INDUSTRIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1937 Ga. Laws (Res. No 14), page 1131, amending Ga. Const. (1877) Art. VII, § 7, ¶ I. This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution by Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1029), page 4377. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Amendment of Ga. Const. art. 7, § 6, ¶ 1.
That article 7, section 6, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, be and the same is hereby amended by adding at the end of said paragraph the following language:
"Provided, however, that the City of Waycross, in Ware County, is authorized to levy a tax on all of the taxable property therein, not to exceed one mill, for the purpose of securing a fund to be set aside, used and appropriated by the City of Waycross in assisting, promoting, and encouraging the location of new industries therein or in Ware County. Said tax and appropriation being in addition to those now authorized by law."
(1962 Ga. Laws (Res. No. 241), page 1158, § 1)
Editor's note— The 1962 amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution by Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 71), page 3639.
Sec. 2. - Publication.
This amendment shall be published in some newspaper in each congressional district for two months before the next general election, and at the next general election it shall be submitted to the qualified voters of Georgia for ratification or rejection. Those desiring to vote in favor of ratification of the amendment shall have written or printed on their ballots the words, "For ratification of the amendment to article 7, section 6, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, authorizing the City of Waycross to levy a tax and appropriate money for securing new industries." Those desiring to vote against the ratification of the amendment shall have written or printed on their ballots the words, "Against ratification of the amendment to article 7, section 6, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, authorizing the City of Waycross to levy a tax and appropriate money for securing new industries." If a majority of the qualified voters qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly, voting at said election, shall vote in favor of the ratification of the amendment, the same shall become a part of article 7, section 6, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, and the governor shall make proclamation thereof as provided by law.
ARTICLE II. - BONDS FOR WATERWORKS SYSTEM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1941 Ga. Laws (Res. No 27), page 184, amending Ga. Const. (1877) Art. VII, § 7, ¶ I. This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1028), page 4375. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Amendment of Ga. Const. art. 7, § 7, ¶ 1.
That article 7, section 7, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Georgia, which has heretofore been amended, shall be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new subparagraph in the following words to wit:
"And except that the City of Waycross in Ware County, Georgia, may incur an indebtedness, in the amount and to the extent and in the form and manner provided herein, in addition to and separate from the amounts of debts heretofore allowed under this paragraph, for the purpose of making additions to and improvements in the existing water works system of said City of Waycross, and all appurtenances thereto and may combine, maintain and operate its existing plant and system, and the betterments, improvements and additions thereto as one undertaking, all of which shall be determined and acted upon by a majority vote of the commission of said City of Waycross. Said City of Waycross is empowered and authorized solely upon a majority vote of the Commission of said city to finance said undertakings by the issuance from time to time of interest bearing evidences in the aggregate not to exceed the sum of $150,000.00 principal in the form of revenue anticipation certificates according to the plan, procedure, form and remedies upon default provided in an Act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, entitled the "Revenue Certificate Law of 1937" (1937 Ga. Laws, pages 761 et seq.), and as amended and to provide that payment of said certificates when and as issued shall be made solely out of revenue derived from the operation of said water works as now constructed and as may be extended and enlarged, all as provided in said act and amendment thereof. Said municipality is empowered and authorized, acting by and through the commission of said city as aforesaid, to proceed under and use the plan and procedure provided in said revenue act as amended as completely as though said undertakings were an original and new venture instead of a co-mingling of existing facilities and appurtenances and additions, extension, and enlargements thereof. Said certificates of indebtedness when issued shall not be payable from or charged upon any funds other than the revenue pledged to the payment thereof, nor shall said municipality be subject to any other pecuniary liability thereon whatsoever. Provided, however, the aggregate of all the indebtedness that may be incurred under this amendment is limited to $150,000.00 principal."
Sec. 2. - Publication.
When this amendment shall be agreed to by a two-thirds vote of the members elected to each of the two houses, and shall have been entered on their journals with the "yeas" and "nays" taken thereon, it shall be published and submitted to the people, and the returns and declaration of the result shall be made, in the manner provided by the Act approved March 24, 1939 (1939 Ga. Laws, pages 305—307).
Sec. 3. - Conflict.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE III. - DOWNTOWN WAYCROSS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1974 Ga. Laws (Res. No. 164), page 1764, amending Ga. Const. (1877) Art. VII, § VII, ¶ I. This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution by Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 880), page 3906. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Amendment to Ga. Const. art. VII, § VII, ¶ I.
Article VII, section VII, paragraph I of the Constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
"The General Assembly shall be authorized to create in and for the City of Waycross, the Downtown Waycross Development Authority for the purpose of the redevelopment of the downtown Waycross area. Said authority shall have the power to employ engineers and planners, to contract for the construction of buildings and other facilities, and to contract with the City of Waycross for the construction, reconstruction, altering and changing and closing of streets and alleys. The general assembly shall be authorized to empower the authority to create special tax districts within the City of Waycross, and to levy and collect taxes within said districts based on values of the taxable property fixed by the Tax Digest of the City of Waycross to defray the costs of the foregoing. The general assembly may authorize the authority to create one or more of such districts and authorize the authority to define the boundaries of such districts. The authority shall have the power to issue bonds and/or revenue certificates, and to pledge revenues and to levy and collect taxes within said districts for the retirement of said indebtedness. No taxes shall be levied by said authority for any purpose against owner occupied property used exclusively for residential purposes or property used for school or church purposes. The authority shall have the right and power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring property in the carrying out of its aims and objectives. The general assembly shall provide for all matters relating to the composition of the members of the authority, their terms of office and related matters and the geographical limits within the City of Waycross which shall be subject to the provisions of this paragraph."
Sec. 2. - Publication.
The above proposed amendment to the Constitution shall be published and submitted as provided in article XIII, section I, paragraph I of the Constitution of Georgia of 1945, as amended.
The ballot submitting the above proposed amendment shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"( ) YES
( ) NO
Shall the Constitution be amended so as to provide for the establishment of a Downtown Waycross Development Authority and to provide for the powers, duties and responsibilities of said Authority?"
All persons desiring to vote in favor of ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "Yes". All persons desiring to vote against ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "No".
If such amendment shall be ratified as provided in said paragraph of the Constitution, it shall become a part of the Constitution of this state.
ARTICLE IV. - WAYCROSS AND WARE COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1953 Ga. Laws (Res. No. 165), page 266, amending Ga. Const. (1877) Art. V, § VIII, ¶ I. This amendment was carried forward into the 1983 Constitution by Ga. Const (1983) art. XI, § 1, ¶ IV and 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1030), page 4379. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Amendment to Ga. Const. art. V.
That article V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia is hereby amended by adding to the end thereof a new section and paragraph to be known as section VIII, paragraph I, which shall read as follows, to wit:
"Article V, section VIII, paragraph I. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Waycross and Ware County Development Authority' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by Ware County and the corporate limits of the City of Waycross. The County of Ware and the City of Waycross may contract with the authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
"The authority shall consist of eight members who shall have such control, duties, powers and authority as are hereby conferred and as may be prescribed or provided for by the General Assembly of Georgia, and such additional powers as may be delegated to the authority by the County of Ware and the City of Waycross. Members of the authority shall be residents of Ware County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Waycross. The first appointments shall be for terms of one, two, three and four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. The general assembly shall provide for appointment of members of the authority. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall not be required to be a member of the authority.
"All lands and improvements thereon the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the authority, shall be exempt from state and local taxation.
"Said authority is created for the purpose of developing and promoting for the public good and general welfare industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion, within its territorial limits. The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Ware or the City of Waycross. The authority is created for non-profit purposes and all property acquired by the authority and any funds realized by the authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the authority is created."
Sec. 2. - Publication.
When the above proposed amendment to the Constitution shall have been agreed to by two thirds of the members elected to each of the two branches of the general assembly, and the same has been entered on their journals with the "ayes" and "nays" taken thereon, the governor is hereby authorized and instructed to cause such proposed amendment to be published as provided in article XIII, section 1, paragraph I, of the Constitution of Georgia of 1945, as amended, for two months previous to the time of the general election at which the above proposed amendment shall be submitted for ratification or rejection to the electors as provided in said paragraph of the Constitution.
The ballot submitting the above proposed amendment shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"For ratification of amendment to Article V of the Constitution of Georgia, creating the Waycross and Ware County Development Authority."
"Against ratification of amendment to Article V of the Constitution of Georgia, creating the Waycross and Ware County Development Authority."
All persons desiring to vote in favor of adopting the proposed amendment shall vote for ratification of the amendment, and all persons desiring to vote against the adoption of the proposed amendment shall vote against ratification.
If a majority of the electors qualified to vote for members of the general assembly voting thereon in Ware County and also a majority of said electors voting thereon in the City of Waycross shall vote for ratification thereof, this amendment shall become a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. The returns of the election shall be made in like manner as returns for elections for members of the general assembly and it shall be the duty of the secretary of state to ascertain the result and certify the result to the governor who shall, if such amendment be ratified, make proclamation thereof.
