Sec. 70. - (Restatement) Impeachment.
Be it further enacted, that the mayor, aldermen, departmental officers, and other officers of said city, whether serving with or without compensation, where they are elected or appointed for a fixed term of office, shall, for violation of their respective oaths of office, or for any violation of the criminal laws of the state, including the misuse or failure to pay over public funds or property, or willful neglect or failure (except in providential causes) to perform the duties of his office, or such private misconduct as renders his office a subject of reproach to the public, or makes him unfit to discharge the duties of his office and prevents the true performance thereof, shall be subject to impeachment. This remedy by impeachment shall not take away the right and duty of removal of such offending officer where such rights exist, but shall be cumulative thereof. Articles of impeachment shall be prepared and presented whenever so ordered, and in the manner that may be ordered by the city commission in each case. When it shall be determined by the city commission that a trial shall be had under articles of impeachment prepared as above specified, the city attorney shall prosecute in the name of the city. The city commission of said city shall have the sole right to try all impeachments, and when sitting for that purpose it shall be under same oath or affirmation taken by jurors in the trial of criminal cases in the superior courts of the state. When the mayor is tried, a judge of the superior court shall preside; neither the mayor nor any aldermen shall be allowed to sit or vote on the trial of his own case if (he is on trial); and no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two-thirds of the members present, the mayor voting except when he is on trial. Judgment, in case of impeachment, shall extend no further than removal from office and disqualification to hold any office of honor, trust, or profit, under this Charter, but the party convicted shall, nevertheless also be liable and subject to indictment trial and punishment, according to law in the courts of the state having jurisdiction of such matters. Employees and officers who are employed at the pleasure of the city commission, or any board or officer of the city, may be dropped at the pleasure of the appointing power.
(1909 Ga. Laws (Act No. 287), p. 1456, ยง 55)
