Sec. 59. - Municipal court.
(1)
Creation.
(A)
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Waycross (hereinafter referred to as "municipal court"), the same is hereby granted all such powers as are inherent in courts generally and as usually belong to municipal courts under the laws of this state, as well as those hereinafter more particularly set forth.
(B)
The municipal court shall be held at such place as the city commission shall prescribe by ordinance, or as may be necessitated by the emergencies of the case.
(2)
Judge.
(A)
No person shall be eligible to serve as judge of municipal court unless such person shall be, at the time of qualification, at least 25 years of age, shall be a resident of the Waycross Judicial Circuit, and shall be a licensed, practicing attorney at law in good standing with the State Bar of Georgia.
(B)
Any person selected to be judge of said court shall preside over said court and shall try and determine all cases therein, without a jury. Said person shall be clothed with all the powers as judge of said court as set forth in this Charter, the ordinances of the City of Waycross, Georgia, and as provided by law.
(C)
Before entering upon his or her duties of office, said person shall take and subscribe to the following oath, which shall be entered upon the minutes of the commission, and said oath taken and subscribed shall comply with the requirements of code sections 45-3-1 through 45-3-10 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.]:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will uprightly demean myself as judge of the Municipal Court of the City of Waycross and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge all the duties incumbent on me as presiding judge of said municipal court of said city, according to the best of my ability and understanding. I further swear (or affirm) that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due to the State of Georgia, or any political subdivision or authority thereof, and am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which state by the laws of the State of Georgia I am prohibited from holding; and that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office according to the Constitution and laws of Georgia. I swear (or affirm) that I will uphold and support the Constitution of the United States, and the Charter and Ordinances of the City of Waycross, and the laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia, so help me God."
(D)
The judge shall hold court at stated hours, Sundays excepted, or as often as the exigencies of business demand. In case the judge is absent from the city, sick, disqualified, or for other cause is unable to hold court, the judge pro tempore may preside and act as judge of said court in the place of said judge and, while so doing, shall be clothed with all the rights and powers of the judge of said court.
(E)
The judge of said court and the judge pro tempore of said court shall serve at the pleasure of the commission of the City of Waycross.
(F)
The judge of said court and the judge pro tempore shall be selected by the commission of the City of Waycross in the same manner as the city manager for a term of one year.
(G)
In case a vacancy shall occur in the office of the judge of municipal court, such vacancy shall be filled by the commission of the City of Waycross.
(3)
Jurisdiction; powers.
(A)
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all offenses against the laws and ordinances of the city committed within the jurisdictional limits of the city, and upon conviction, to punish the offenders for the violation of such laws and ordinances by imposing such fines and sentences, and inflicting such punishment as shall be prescribed by the provisions of this Act and the ordinances and resolutions adopted in pursuance thereof. The judge or judge pro tempore of the municipal court shall have the power to impose fines and inflict punishments after conviction upon all violations of the laws and ordinances of said city by fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by labor on the streets or public works of said city under the control and direction of the proper officers, not to exceed six months, or by confinement not to exceed six months, either one or more or all, in the discretion of the judge or judge pro tempore trying the case. Upon failure or refusal of any person to pay promptly any fine or costs imposed by the municipal court, the same may be enforced and collected by an execution issued and directed as is provided for the issuance and collection of tax executions by the city and levies may be made and sales thereunder may be conducted in the same way, this method being cumulative and to be used at the option of the commission of the City of Waycross.
(B)
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all misdemeanor traffic offenses as authorized by code sections 40-6-372 through 40-6-376 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376], and such other offenses as authorized presently, or in the future, by state law. The municipal court may prescribe punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction to the fullest extent allowed by state law.
(C)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction, including both fines and imprisonment or alternative sentencing; provided that such fines or imprisonment does not exceed the statutory limits as now exist or thereafter provided by law.
(D)
The municipal court shall have jurisdiction to forfeit all appearance bonds and recognizances returnable to said court and to hear, try and determine all issues made therein and to render judgment on the same; and also, to try all nuisances and questions arising in reference thereto and to grant judgments for the abatement of the same and for the removal thereof.
(E)
The municipal court shall have authority to recommend to the city commission for approval of a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation.
(F)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as security for appearances of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his or her appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited to the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his or her surety, or sureties, with a rule nisi at least three days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Waycross, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited.
(G)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears, by probable cause, that a state law has been violated.
(H)
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper for the conduct of court.
(I)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by state law.
(J)
The municipal court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt; provided that such punishment shall not exceed the statutory limits for fines and imprisonment for such municipal courts.
(K)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the judicial jurisdiction and judicial powers throughout the entire area of the City of Waycross granted by state laws generally to municipal courts, including the power to impose sentences for those offenses that carry a maximum penalty under state law of up to 12 months' imprisonment, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
(L)
The judge or judge pro tempore of the municipal court shall have and are given the same powers and authorities as magistrates in the matter of and pertaining to criminal cases of whatever nature in the several courts of this state. The judge or judge pro tempore are authorized and empowered to issue warrants for offenses committed within the jurisdiction of the City of Waycross for police purposes, against the penal laws of the state, this either before or after the hearing or trial of the charge in said municipal court, and consequently where, in the course of an investigation of a matter in said municipal court, it shall appear that the penal laws of the state have been violated, it shall be the duty of the judge or judge pro tempore to bind over the offender to the proper court having jurisdiction of such matter in said County of Ware; and to that end, the judge or judge pro tempore shall have the power and authority to commit such offender or offenders to the county jail of said county or admit them to bail, in bailable cases, for their appearance at the next term of a court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for said county.
(4)
Contempt.
(A)
The judge or judge pro tempore of the municipal court shall have the authority to issue attachment and inflict summary punishment for contempt of court in cases of:
(i)
Misbehavior of any person or persons in the presence of such court or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice;
(ii)
Misbehavior of any of the officers of the court in their official transactions; or
(iii)
Disobedience or resistance of any officer of the court, party, juror, witness, or other person or persons to any lawful writ, processed order, rule, decree, or command of the court.
(B)
The judge or judge pro tempore of the municipal court shall have the power and authority to punish for contempt by fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or confinement not to exceed 20 days, either one or both, in the discretion of the judge or judge pro tempore trying the case. Upon failure or refusal of any person to pay promptly any fine or cost imposed by said judge or judge pro tempore, the same may be enforced and collected by an execution issued and directed as is provided for the issuance and collection of tax executions by the city and levies may be made and sales thereunder may be conducted in the same way, this method being cumulative and to be used at the option of the commission of the City of Waycross.
(5)
Docket. There shall be kept one or more dockets, on which shall appear the name of each person arrested by the officers of the city for any offense against the municipal ordinances or laws in force within the jurisdictional limits of the city, and a brief and clear statement of the offense with which such person is charged. Upon the trial of such person, the sentence imposed or the disposition made of the case shall be entered in writing opposite the name and charge by judge or judge pro tempore of said court, which respective entries shall be signed by the judge or judge pro tempore in such cases.
(6)
Summons and subpoenas.
(A)
The municipal court shall have the power to compel the attendance of persons charged with the violation of any ordinance or law within the jurisdiction of the municipal court, by summons, which summons shall be issued by the city clerk and bear testament in the name of the judge of municipal court, and shall set forth the nature of the charge or case, and the time set for trial or hearing, and shall be served upon the defendant by any officer or member of the police force. Likewise, said court shall have the power to compel the attendance of witnesses in all proceedings by issuing subpoenas which shall be similarly issued and served as are summons.
(B)
The municipal court shall have the power to punish any person disobeying such summons or subpoena as for contempt. Any person who may be charged with contempt may be arrested by attachment in writing or warrant signed by the judge or judge pro tempore, which said attachment or warrant shall be executed by any member of the police force.
(7)
Trial. The cases before the municipal court shall be tried as speedily as possible. With due regard to the rights of the accused and of the city, continuances may be granted by the court upon proper showing made, in accordance with the rules governing such matters in the superior courts of this state, but such continuances shall be only until a time when the case can be properly tried in the discretion of the presiding judge or judge pro tempore.
(8)
Bonds and forfeitures.
(A)
When any person who is charged with an offense against the laws or ordinances of the city, or who is arrested for such offense, shall give bond for his or her appearance at any session of municipal court, and if such person shall fail to appear at the time appointed in said bond, then and in such event, said bond shall be forfeited and the amount of same collected from the principal and sureties thereon in a manner to be provided for by ordinance of the city. And said commission is hereby expressly authorized and empowered to provide by ordinance for the forfeiture and collection of such appearance bonds similarly to the way in which they are forfeited and collected in the superior courts of this state, and said municipal court is hereby clothed with full power and authority to forfeit said appearance bonds and grant judgments upon the same for the amounts thereof, in the same way that superior courts grant such judgments. On the entering of such judgment, the city clerk shall issue an execution against the principal and surety or sureties on such bonds in conformity with such judgment, and in the form and manner prescribed for executions issued by the city for taxes, and the city shall proceed to enforce and collect the same as tax executions of the city are enforced and collected.
(B)
In any case where any person charged with an offense brought in the municipal court, or arrested for such offenses, has deposited a sum of money as a bond for his appearance in said municipal court, and similarly where some other party has deposited a sum of money for the appearance of such person in said municipal court, then and in the event such person does not appear at the time appointed, for whose appearance such sum of money was deposited in lieu of a bond as aforesaid, said sum of money shall be forfeited instantly by the judgment of the municipal court entered upon the municipal court docket and shall be paid over to the City of Waycross.
(C)
No resident of Ware County, Georgia, who is not a resident of the City of Waycross, Georgia, shall be prohibited from giving a property bond, solely on the basis of residency for the appearance in the municipal court of a person who is charged with an offense against the laws or ordinances of the City of Waycross. The means and method for giving bond, forfeiture of bond, execution, and judgment thereon shall be established by the code of the City of Waycross, Georgia, the ordinances and laws applicable to the City of Waycross, Georgia.
(D)
If Ware County residents who are not residents of the City of Waycross give bond for a person or persons to appear in the municipal court, and if such person shall fail to appear at the time appointed in said bond, then in such event, said bond shall be forfeited and the amount of same collected from the principal and his sureties as established by the ordinances and laws of the City of Waycross, Georgia, and general laws of the State of Georgia applicable to said court. Any ordinances and laws in effect at the time this ordinance is adopted, as well as any amendments that may be adopted from time to time thereafter, shall apply to persons and bonds which are given by Ware County residents who are non-residents of the City of Waycross.
(9)
Costs. Said commission shall have the power to provide by ordinance for the charge and collection of all items of costs in cases brought into said municipal court, such as are usually incident and lawfully chargeable to the prosecution of said cases, same to be added to the amount of the fines imposed and collected, and then to be paid over to the proper officers for whose use they are charged.
(10)
Certiorari. The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all cases, and any and all persons who shall complain, and take exception at any decision or judgment rendered in said municipal court, shall have the right to have same reviewed by a writ of certiorari which shall be applied for, issued and heard and determined under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia in such cases made and provided.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 616), p. 4916, § 2; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), p. 6055, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 127), p. 3814, § 1; 2015 Ga. Laws (Act No. 129), HB 254, § 2)
