Chapter 107 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Historic Preservation Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.

Sec. 107-1. - Purpose.
The city commission hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects, and landscape features having a special historical, cultural or aesthetic interest or value, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 15½-1; Ord. No. 05-38, § I, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
Certificate of appropriateness means a document approving a proposal to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a structure, site, or work of art located within a designated historic district, which document must be obtained from the historic preservation commission before such material change may be undertaken.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including, but not limited to, the kind or texture of the building material; the type and style of all windows, doors, and signs; and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
Exterior environmental features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of a site that affect the historical character of the property or district.
General maintenance means scraping, caulking, painting, planting, making repairs to materials already in place not constituting a material change in appearance.
Historic district means a geographically definable area, possessing a significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, objects or landscape features united by past events or aesthetically by plan or physical development. A district may also comprise individual elements separated geographically but linked by association or history. A historic district shall further mean an area designated by the city as a historic district pursuant to the criteria established in section 107-4(b).
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site, landscape feature or object including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation thereof designated by the city commission as a historic property pursuant to the criteria established in section 107-4(c).
Material change in appearance means any change that will affect only the exterior architectural features of an historic property or of any structure, site, or work of art within a historic district, and may include any one or more of the following:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details or elements;
(2)
Demolition of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation;
(4)
A change in the location of advertising signs visible from the public way on any historic property; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any building or other structures within a designated historic district, including wails, fences, steps and pavements, or other appurtenant features, except exterior paint alterations.
Landscape feature means a tree judged 50 years of age or older, fence, statue, fountain, memorial, bridge, rail line, public sidewalk or similar item.
Object means a material thing of functional, aesthetic, cultural, historical or scientific value that may be, by nature or design, movable yet related to a specific setting or environment.
Site means the location of a significant event, a prehistoric or historical occupation or activity, or a building or structure, whether standing, ruined, or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing structure.
Structure means anything constructed or erected which requires a fixed location on the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, mobile homes, signs, walls and fences.
(Code 1977, § 15½-2; Ord. No. 05-38, § II, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-3. - Historic preservation commission.
(a)
Creation. There is hereby created a commission whose title shall be Waycross Historic Preservation Commission (hereinafter "preservation commission").
(b)
Position within the city. The preservation commission shall make recommendations to the city commission in matters related to planning in the historic districts or for properties being considered to be added to the historic district by written report on a monthly basis.
(c)
Number of members; appointment, terms, and compensation. The preservation commission shall consist of five appointed members and one ex officio member. Five members shall be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city commission. The one ex officio member shall be director of the community improvement department or said director's designee. The one ex officio member shall have no voting authority and shall provide technical assistance only to the preservation commission. The city appointed members shall serve three-year terms and may not serve more than two complete consecutive terms. To the extent available, members shall be appointed among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions, building construction, real property appraisal, or from citizens who have demonstrated an interest in historic preservation or who live in historic preservation districts. Neither the mayor nor member of the city commission, nor any employee thereof may serve as a voting member on the historic preservation commission due to the local governing authority having power to decide appeals. All voting members shall be residents of the city. Members appointed by the city shall have equal voting rights in all matters of the preservation commission related to historic properties or districts, etc. A quorum shall consist of three members present at an official meeting for the purpose of lawfully transacting the business of the preservation commission. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses. The preservation commission shall make recommendations to and file requests and reports with a member of a designated city department, as appointed by the city commission.
(Code 1977, § 15½-3; Ord. No. 05-38, § III, 11-15-2005; Ord. No. 08-07, § 1, 3-18-2008; Ord. No. 12-10, § 1, 8-7-2012)
Sec. 107-4. - Recommendation and designation of historic districts and properties.
(a)
Preliminary research by the preservation commission.
(1)
Preservation commission's mandate to conduct a survey of local historical resources. The preservation commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the city; provided, however, the preservation commission shall not have the authority to issue subpoenas nor enter upon private property except with the expressed consent of the property owner.
(2)
Preservation commission's power to recommend districts and building to the city commission for designation. The preservation commission shall present to the city commission recommendations for historic districts and properties.
(3)
Preservation commission's documentation of proposed designation. Prior to the commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the city commission for designation, the preservation commission shall prepare a report for designation consisting of:
a.
A physical description of the property;
b.
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural and/or aesthetic significance of the property;
c.
A map showing district boundaries and classification (i.e., contributing, non-contributing) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties;
d.
A statement justifying district or individual property boundaries; and
e.
Representative photographs.
(b)
Designation of a historic district.
(1)
The criteria for designation of a historic district are set forth in O.C.G.A. § 44-10-22(5) and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
(2)
Boundaries of a historic district shall be included in the separate ordinances designating such districts and shall be shown on the official zoning map of the city.
(3)
Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
a.
Contributing (contributes to the district);
b.
Noncontributing (does not contribute to the district, as provided for in subsection (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Designation of a historic property; criteria for selection of historic properties. The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 44-10-22(7) are incorporated herein by reference.
(d)
Requirements for adopting an ordinance. Requirements for adopting an ordinance for the designation of historic districts and historic properties are set forth in O.C.G.A. § 44-10-26.
(Code 1977, § 15½-4; Ord. No. 05-38, § IV, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-5. - Application to preservation commission for certificate of appropriateness.
(a)
Approval of material change in appearance in historic districts or involving historic properties. After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no material change in the appearance of such historic property, or of a structure, site, or work of art within such historic district, shall be made or be permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, unless or until the application for a certificate of appropriateness has been submitted to and approved by the preservation commission. A building permit for such historical property or other permit shall not be issued without a certificate of appropriateness.
(b)
Submission of plans to commission. An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be accompanied by drawings, photographs, plans and documentation required by the preservation commission. The application/filing shall be submitted not less than 21 days before the date of the preservation commission meeting and that day shall be the official date of filing.
(c)
An application for a certificate of appropriateness must be filed with the office of community improvement, located at 417 Pendleton Street, Waycross, Georgia 31502.
(d)
Prior to reviewing an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the preservation commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected materially by the application and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. The preservation commission shall hold a public hearing at which each proposed certificate of appropriateness shall be discussed. Notice of the hearing shall be published in the principal newspaper of local circulation in the city. The preservation commission shall provide written notice of the hearing by regular mail to all owners and occupants likely to be materially affected by the application. The preservation commission shall give the property owner and/or applicant an opportunity to be heard at the certificate of appropriateness hearing.
(e)
The preservation commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change in appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the esthetic, historical, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the preservation commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors:
(1)
The historical and architectural value and significance; architectural style;
(2)
General design, arrangement, texture, and material of the architectural features involved; and
(3)
The relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style and pertinent features of other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
(f)
In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the preservation commission shall not consider interior arrangement or uses having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(g)
The preservation commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property or of a structure, site, or work of art located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission. Failure of the preservation commission to act within the 45-day period shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(h)
In the event the preservation commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so and shall transmit a record of such action and the reasons therefor, in writing, to the applicant. The preservation commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(i)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of an application for a certificate of appropriateness by the preservation commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits; and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(j)
Where such action is authorized by the city commission and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, the preservation commission may enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise of the property or any interest therein.
(k)
Where, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this chapter would result in exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of any specific property, the preservation commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to the provisions or to interpret the meaning of the provision so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided, however, that such variance, modification, or interpretation shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the provisions so that the architectural or historical integrity or character of the property shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variations, the preservation commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will in its judgment best fulfill the purpose of this chapter.
(l)
The preservation commission shall keep a record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness and of all its proceedings.
(m)
Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the preservation commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the city commission; and the city commission may approve, modify and approve, or reject the determination made by the preservation commission if the city commission finds that the preservation commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Any such appeal must be filed with the clerk of the city commission within 15 days after the issuance of the determination or, in the case of a failure of the preservation commission to act within 15 days of the expiration of the 45-day period allowed for the preservation commission action. Appeals from decisions of the city commission made pursuant to this chapter may be taken to the superior court in the manner provided by law for appeals from a conviction for municipal or county ordinance violations.
(n)
A certificate of appropriateness is not required if the only work to be done is routine or general maintenance as defined in the preservation commission's design guidelines.
(Code 1977, § 15½-5; Ord. No. 05-38, § V, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-6. - Maintenance of historic properties and building and zoning code provisions.
(a)
Ordinary maintenance or repair. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in or on a historic property, which maintenance or repair does not involve a material change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of his property not prohibited by other laws, ordinances, or regulations.
(b)
Failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair. Property owners of historic properties or properties within historic districts shall not allow their buildings to deteriorate by failing to provide ordinary maintenance or repair. The preservation commission shall be charged with the following responsibilities regarding deterioration by neglect:
(1)
The preservation commission shall monitor the condition of historic properties and existing buildings in historic districts to determine if they are being allowed to deteriorate by neglect. Conditions such as broken windows, doors and openings which allow the elements and vermin to enter, the deterioration of a building's structural system shall constitute failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair;
(2)
In the event the preservation commission determines a failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair, the commission shall notify the department of community improvement of the city.
(c)
Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city building and zoning codes, health and sanitation codes or all applicable codes of the state or city, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of their property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances or regulations.
(Code 1977, § 15½-6; Ord. No. 05-38, § VI, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-7. - Exceptions.
(a)
State department of transportation and its contractors. The state department of transportation and its contractors shall be exempt from this chapter.
(b)
The city. The city shall be exempt from this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 15½-7; Ord. No. 05-38, § VII, 11-15-2005)
Sec. 107-8. - Building official vested with power and authority to act if there is no historic preservation commission.
If appointments have not been made to the historic preservation commission by the mayor and approved by the city commission or if the historic preservation commission does not have a quorum or if, for any reason whatsoever, the historic preservation commission cannot meet to review proposed changes to historic property and then issue a certificate of appropriateness, if warranted and as required by section 107-5, the building official shall be vested with all the powers and authority of the historic preservation commission as are authorized and mandated by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 15-19, § 1, 8-18-2015)
