ARTICLE II. - STREET NUMBER DISPLAY

Sec. 90-31. - Enforcement of article.
The responsibility for making inspections to determine owner compliance with this article and for the enforcement of the provisions of this article shall rest upon the board of commissioners, county building official, county sheriff's department, and their designees and with officers authorized, directed and empowered to enforce all ordinances of the county. The agents and employees of such departments are hereby authorized and hereby empowered to make cases and issue citations for violations of this article. However, all public safety agencies providing services in the county are authorized to identify property owners in violation of this article and to forward notification of violations to the county building official for appropriate action.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 5)
Sec. 90-32. - Penalty for violation of article.
(a)
Any person who violates or fails to comply upon direction with the provisions of this article as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who shall fail to do anything required by this article as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, is hereby declared to be in violation of this article.
(b)
Each and every day that any such violation exists shall be deemed to be a separate offense under the provisions of this article.
(c)
Any such violation, upon conviction, as prescribed by the laws of the state and this article, shall be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both, not to exceed 30 days' incarceration and/or a $500.00 fine for each and every separate violation of this article.
(d)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation shall not excuse the violation nor permit it to continue, and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter, and in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur.
(e)
The application of any fine, imprisonment, or other penalty shall not be construed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or to postpone any action required.
(f)
The remedies set out in this section for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be cumulative of all other remedies, civil or criminal, provided by the laws of the state, or by the ordinances of the county.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 7)
Sec. 90-33. - Required.
Every house, mobile home, apartment, business, or other building having a street address number assigned to it under the system of numbering in the unincorporated county shall display such number in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article. Mobile home parks and apartment complexes, including duplex dwelling structures, shall also be required to have each individual pad, lot number or apartment number displayed in a readily visible manner and in compliance with the requirements of this article. Such lot, pad or apartment numbers shall be in sequence unless directional signs are provided for numbers not in sequence.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 1)
Sec. 90-34. - Method.
Street address numbers shall be prominently displayed in one or more of the following manners:
(1)
Assigned street address numbers may be fixed to the house, apartment, business or other building itself, provided that such house, apartment, business or other building is not more than 50 feet from the curbline, pavement edge, or edge of travel way of the street in front of such building, and the number is readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction.
(2)
Street address numbers may also be placed on mailboxes or a sign located on the premises in front of the house, apartment, business or other building, provided that such sign is of a durable type, and is located not more than 50 feet from the curbline, pavement edge, or edge of travel way of the street in front of the property, and provided that the numbers on such sign shall be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction.
(3)
On curbed streets, assigned street address numbers may be painted on the curb. It is recommended, but not required, that painting street address numbers permanently on curbs be done in addition to affixing such numbers to houses, mailboxes and signs as provided in this section. The responsibility for maintaining clearly legible street address numbers is placed on the property owner.
(4)
If the house, apartment, business or other building to be numbered is more than 50 feet from the curb, pavement edge or edge of travel way of the street in front of the property, or if for any reason a street address number affixed to the building would not be readily visible from the street by persons traveling along the street in each direction, then the street address number shall be displayed on a sign or mailbox on the premises or clearly painted on the curb in front of such structure, complying with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 2)
Sec. 90-35. - Size and condition of numbers.
Street address numbers affixed to buildings or signs shall be a minimum of four inches in height. Those affixed to mailboxes in the manner specified in this article shall be a minimum of two inches in height. All such signs shall be of a color contrasting to the background so as to be clearly visible. Street address numbers and signs to which they are affixed shall be maintained at all times in good condition.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 3)
Sec. 90-36. - Duty of owner; notification.
The obligation of complying with the provisions of this article shall be upon the owner of the property. The property owner shall have 30 calendar days from the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives to comply with the provisions of this article. It shall be the duty of such owner, upon affixing a number as provided by this article, to remove any incorrect previous numbers which might be mistaken for or confused with a number assigned to such structure by any governmental agency. Failure to comply within 30 days shall constitute a violation of this article. Upon such violation, notice shall be given the owner of the property or his agent specifying the particulars of the violation and requiring that such violation be brought into compliance with this article within ten calendar days after receipt of such notice. Failure to comply within the ten calendar days shall be punishable, upon conviction, as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 4)
Sec. 90-37. - Issuance of permits and final approvals for certificates of occupancy contingent upon compliance with article.
No building permits shall be issued for any principal building until the owner or developer has procured from the building official for the county the official number of the premises. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired after the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 3-13-95, § 6)
Secs. 90-38—90-65. - Reserved.
