ARTICLE III. - ENCROACHMENTS ON PUBLIC ROADS

Sec. 90-66. - Requirements for encroachers.
Any person, firm, company, sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, organization, individual, or government who desires to encroach and/or cross any public road in the unincorporated areas of the county, maintained by the county, shall be required to:
(1)
Obtain and complete a permit from the county engineer.
(2)
Repair the road to the specifications of the DOT and to the satisfaction of the county engineer.
(3)
Call for an inspection by the county engineer during the repair process when the:
a.
Road is cut.
b.
Cut is backfilled.
c.
Concrete is poured.
d.
Job is completed.
(4)
Make application for a permit at least 48 hours prior to the time the encroachment is to be made.
(5)
Complete all repairs and submit completed job to the county engineer for inspection in not less than 14 days after the work is begun.
(Ord. of 4-7-86, § I)
Sec. 90-67. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person, firm, company, sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, organization, individual, or government who violates this article shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 4-7-86, § II)
Editor's note— Application and permit forms for utility facility encroachments or other public road crossings are available in the office of the county engineer.
Sec. 90-68. - Use of certain mailbox supports prohibited.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this section for mailboxes to be mounted in such a manner as to present a serious threat of damage to vehicles or the motoring public in Tift County. For purposes of construction of this provision the use of the following materials and/or method in mounting mailboxes shall be prohibited:
(1)
Heavy metal posts;
(2)
Concrete posts;
(3)
Brick bases;
(4)
Supports filled with concrete;
(5)
Mailbox supports fashioned of heavy farm equipment;
(6)
Any method not approved by the postmaster general; and/or
(7)
Other materials which threaten damage to vehicles and/or serious injury to vehicle occupants including but not limited to the following:
a.
Material of a masonry nature;
b.
Other material that would not readily yield upon impact;
c.
Any material which could be classified by the state highway engineer as a hazardous fixed object;
d.
Wood exceeding four inches × four inches or if round, more than four inches in diameter;
e.
Hollow metal material more than three inches in diameter.
The purpose of this section is to prevent utilization of mailbox supports which threaten injury to person or property. Mounting mailboxes with light metal and/or traditional wooden supports shall be appropriate. The purpose of this provision is to prevent utilization of mailbox supports which present a threat beyond that which is inherent and necessary in mounting mailboxes.
(b)
The county engineer and/or building inspector shall be authorized to inquire as to how mailboxes will be mounted upon assigning a house number to the property and shall insure that a property owner is aware of the provision of this section.
(c)
Should a property owner be determined to be in violation of this section, the county engineer and/or county building inspector shall issue a notice in writing to such property owner, which shall be given by certified mail, requesting that remedial action be taken within ten days from the date of such notice. Should the property owner fail to take remedial action following such notice, the county engineer, the building inspector and/or any employee of the county sheriff's department shall be authorized to seek enforcement of this section through the magistrate's court of the county.
(d)
Penalties for violation of this section shall be as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(Ord. of 11-11-96; Ord. of 12-9-96)
Secs. 90-69—90-100. - Reserved.
