Chapter 66 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; businesses, ch. 26; environment, ch. 58; floods, ch. 62; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 74; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 78; solid waste, ch. 94; utilities, ch. 110.
State Law reference— Health generally, O.C.G.A. § 31-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Repair and cleaning of sewage or septic systems.
Any firm, company, corporation or individual performing, or attempting to perform, any repairs to, or flushing or cleaning of, any sewage disposal system or septic system within the county shall be required to obtain a written permit from the county health officer prior to engaging in any such work on any sewage or septic system within the county. The county health officer is hereby empowered, authorized and instructed to take such official measures as may be right and proper for the purpose of preventing any person from engaging in or completing any such work, repairs or flushing operations until such time as such persons shall have secured a proper written permit from the county health officer.
(Res. of 2-6-56)
Sec. 66-2. - Hearings on septic tank installations.
All hearings on septic tank installations will be heard by the county board of health.
(Mo. of 9-8-87(2))
Sec. 66-3. - Notification by owner to buyer whether property can support septic tank.
Any property owner who is selling property for residential use in areas not served by a public sewer system is required to notify the buyer, in writing, before closing, whether or not the property will support a septic tank.
(Mo. of 9-8-86(2))
Sec. 66-4. - Mental Retardation Service Center and Supported Work Program.
The board of commissioners of the county does hereby authorize the county board of health to serve as the contractor for the Mental Retardation Service Center and the Supported Work Program, effective July 1, 1994. The county board of commissioners does authorize the county administrator to provide supervisory oversight and management assistance to the director of the service center, with communications on many concerns relative to the service center and its programs being addressed to the chair of the board of commissioners, the chair of the board of health and the members of the board of health representing the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 4-11-94(1))
Secs. 66-5—66-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ENFORCEMENT OF COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH REGULATIONS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Promulgation of rules, regulations and standards by state department of human resources and county boards of health, O.C.G.A. § 26-2-373; authority of county to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); power of county board of health to adopt rules and regulations of local application, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-6; power of county board of health to adopt and enforce rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-4(a)(4).

Sec. 66-31. - Adoption; enumeration of rules.
modified
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the Tift County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of Tift County, Georgia. This article specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of adoption of this article and as amended:
(a)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule II as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to Rabies Control;
(b)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the Georgia Department of Public Health, as O.C.G.A. ch. 511-3-1 and the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule III as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(c)
Rules and regulations pertaining to on-site water supplies (adopted by the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule IV as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to on-site water supplies;
(d)
Rules and regulations for food service (adopted by the Georgia Department of Public Health, as O.C.G.A. ch. 511-6-1 and the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule V as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to food service;
(e)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks (adopted by the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule VI as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(f)
Rules and regulations for tourist accommodations (adopted by the Georgia Department of Public Health, as O.C.G.A. ch. 511-6-2 and the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule VII as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(g)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art (adopted by the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule VIII as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to body art;
(h)
Rules and regulations for portable sanitation (adopted by the Georgia Department of Public Health, as O.C.G.A. ch. 511-3-6 and the Tift County Board of Health and being Tift County Board of Health Rule IX as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Tift County Board of Health pertaining to portable sanitation.
(Ord. of 4-11-94, § I; Ord. of 7-14-08, § I; Ord. No. 2018-01, 4-9-18)
Sec. 66-32. - Implementation and enforcement of article.
modified
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the Tift County Board of Commissioners and by virtue of this article is hereby expressly delegated to the Tift Board of Health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of Tift County. The Tift County Board of Health is directed to implement procedures which will ensure that the citizens of Tift County will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 4-11-94, § II; Ord. of 7-14-08, § II; Ord. No. 2018-01, 4-9-18)
Sec. 66-33. - Enforcement of article.
modified
The Magistrate's Court of Tift County shall have jurisdiction over violators of this article and all procedures for enforcement of such ordinance shall be as provided in O.C.G.A., Article 4, Chapter 10 of Title 15. Complaints of violation of any provision of this article shall be brought before the magistrate's court by a designated representative of the Tift Board of Health and shall be prosecuted through that court.
(Ord. of 4-11-94, § IV; Ord. of 7-14-08, § IV; Ord. No. 2018-01, 4-9-18)
Sec. 66-34. - Penalty for violation of article.
modified
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this article and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $500.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days. Any failure of payment of inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by the Tift County Board of Health and approved by the Tift County Board of Commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
(Ord. of 4-11-94, § III; Ord. of 7-14-08, § III; Ord. No. 2018-01, 4-9-18)
Secs. 66-35—66-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH FEES

Sec. 66-61. - Categorized.
Environmental health fees for the following categories shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges:
(1)
Subdivision or mobile home park plan review. The fee will include site evaluation, review of design layout of development and engineering plans of water systems.
(2)
Reevaluation of individual subdivision lots. The fee will apply to those lots which require additional evaluation on the site after any required modifications have been completed.
(3)
Evaluation of property to determine potential for development. This fee is charged for onsite evaluation of property to determine its suitability for development with septic tank systems.
(4)
Individual lot evaluation or reevaluation. The fee will apply for site evaluation or reevaluation only. An additional fee will be charged for well and septic tank system permits. (See subsection (5) of this section.)
(5)
Construction permit for septic tank system. (For site evaluation, see subsection (4) of this section.) The fee includes the septic tank system construction permit and the system construction inspection.
(6)
Reinspection for correction in construction. The fee is applicable to those jobs which require a second trip and a system inspection to correct the faults in construction.
(7)
Evaluation of existing septic tank systems. This fee is for evaluation of existing septic tank systems and processing paperwork for lending agencies in relation to FHA, VA, FMHA, conventional and other loans. This does not include water samples or well/septic tank system permits.
(8)
Septic tank pumper permit inspection. This fee applies to a septic tank pumper's annual permit and the inspection of the pumping equipment.
(9)
Well construction permit. The fee includes a construction permit and one water sample.
(10)
Individual water samples. This fee will apply when a sample is requested.
(11)
Food service facility plan review; new construction or remodel. The fee will include review of architectural, engineering and surveyor's plans for building, equipment, water and sewer systems and site evaluation.
(12)
Food service inspection. This fee will include all routine compliance inspections for one year.
(13)
Food service reinspection. This fee is applicable to all reinspections to check for correction of deficiencies.
(14)
Temporary food service permit. This fee will include all compliance inspections and issuance of a permit.
(15)
Tourist court construction plan review. The fee will include review of architectural, engineering plans for building, water, sewer, and swimming pool design.
(16)
Tourist court inspections (annual fee). This fee will include all inspections of a facility and a facility's swimming pool for a period of one year.
(17)
Swimming pool sanitation program. A separate fee will be charged for each of the following:
a.
Review of pool construction plan;
b.
Routine swimming pool inspection; and
c.
Followup inspection for correction.
(18)
Ice manufacturing plant construction plan review.
(19)
Ice manufacturing inspection.
(20)
Institutional construction plan review. This fee will include engineering and architectural plans for the primary building, water and sewer facilities.
(21)
Institutional inspection. Personal care homes and other institutional type homes. Inspection service fees will include all routine support facilities, i.e. sewage, water sample, food facility inspection and safety hazards.
(22)
Recreational facilities construction plan review. The review includes campgrounds and retreat centers. The fee will include engineering/architectural plan review of buildings, swimming pools, water and sewer facilities.
(23)
Recreational facilities inspection. The inspection includes complete inspection of all facilities in the complex.
(24)
Other. This fee will apply to other miscellaneous environmental services.
(Mo. of 4-13-92)
Secs. 66-62—66-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MASS GATHERINGS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Amusements and entertainments, ch. 10.
State Law reference— Control of mass gatherings, O.C.G.A. § 31-27-1 et seq.

Sec. 66-86. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mass gathering means any event likely to attract 1,000 or more persons.
Permit means written authorization to a person by the board of commissioners to operate a mass gathering.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-87. - Application of article.
This article shall not apply to any mass gathering which is to be held in any regularly established permanent place of worship, athletic field, auditorium, coliseum or other similar permanently established building within the maximum seating capacity. The provisions of this article shall not apply to fairs and similar industrial-agricultural exhibitions which have been in existence for at least five consecutive years prior to the effective date of the resolution from which this section derives. The provisions of this article shall not apply to recognized religious gatherings.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 7)
Sec. 66-88. - Permit—Required; term; transferral.
No person shall hold or promote, by advertising or otherwise, a mass gathering, unless a permit has been issued for the gathering. Such permits shall be in writing and shall specify the conditions under which issued, and shall remain in effect until suspended, revoked, or until the mass gathering is terminated. The permit shall not be transferable or assignable, and a separate permit shall be required for each mass gathering.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 2)
Sec. 66-89. - Same—Application; plans, reports and specifications.
Application for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall be made to the board of commissioners on a form and in a manner prescribed by the board of commissioners by the person who will promote or hold a mass gathering. Application for a permit to promote or hold a mass gathering shall be made at least 15 days before the first day of advertising and at least 45 days before the first day of the gathering. Adequate water and sewage facilities shall be constructed and operational not later than 48 hours before the first day of the mass gathering. The application shall be accompanied by such plans, reports and specifications as the board of commissioners shall deem necessary. The plans, reports and specifications shall provide for adequate and satisfactory water supply and sewage facilities, adequate drainage, adequate toilet and lavatory facilities, adequate refuse storage and disposal facilities, adequate sleeping areas and facilities, wholesome food and sanitary food service, adequate medical facilities, insect control, adequate fire protection, and such other matters as may be appropriate for security of life or health. The application shall disclose the names and addresses of all the persons providing financial backing to the mass gathering, and the amounts of such backing.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 3)
Sec. 66-90. - Same—Applicant requirements.
(a)
Prior to issuance. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant must provide a:
(1)
Plan for limiting attendance, including methods of entering the area, number and location of ticket booths and entrances, and provisions for keeping nonticket holders out of the area;
(2)
Statement verifying that all construction and installation of facilities including water supply, sewage disposal, insect control, food service equipment and garbage handling facilities will be completed at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the event;
(3)
Detailed plan for food service, which must be approved by the county board of health, including a description of food sources, menu, mandatory use of single service dishes and utensils, refrigeration, food handling and dispensing;
(4)
Detailed plan for use of signs to locate all facilities and roadways;
(5)
Statement from local fire and police authorities having jurisdiction over the area acknowledging that they can supply adequate security, traffic control and law enforcement for the proposed gathering, or prove that adequate personnel have been retained for police and/or fire protection;
(6)
Detailed plan for emergency situations including food supplies; medical supplies, facilities and personnel; an evacuation plan; and emergency access roads;
(7)
Statement from the local civil defense director indicating that he has been advised of the event and has approved the plan from a civil defense standpoint; and
(8)
Command post to be used by county health department personnel consisting of a minimum of one building or trailer equipped with an adequate communications system.
(b)
Opportunity for hearing. If it appears necessary and proper that such application for permit be denied or that a permit previously granted be suspended or revoked, the applicant or holder of the permit shall be notified thereof in writing and shall be afforded an opportunity for hearing.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 4)
Sec. 66-91. - Same—Cost.
The cost of the permit shall be a fee as set forth from time to time in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 8)
Sec. 66-92. - Bond.
The person holding or promoting a mass gathering shall provide a bond of $1,000,000.00 issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in this state. The bond shall be to guarantee full compliance with this article as well as other applicable provisions of the state health code and rules and regulations promulgated under such code. The bond shall also cover cleanup of the site. This bond shall be in favor of the board of commissioners for the benefit of any person who is damaged as a result of the activity of a mass gathering. Any person claiming against the bond may maintain an action at law against the person holding or promoting the mass gathering and the surety. In lieu of furnishing the bond, the person holding or promoting a mass gathering may deposit with the board of commissioners a cash deposit in like amount; provided, however, that the bond specified in this section shall not be required in cases where the other requirements of this article are met by the applicant for a permit and an incorporated municipality, county or state owns the area upon which the mass gathering is to be held and commits itself, in writing, to clean up the site upon which the gathering is to be held.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 5)
Sec. 66-93. - Promoter—Assessment for excess attendance.
The person promoting or holding a mass gathering shall be assessed at the rate set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each person in attendance beyond the specified number in the application for such mass gathering. Any such assessment shall be remitted to the board of commissioners and credited to the general fund.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 6)
Sec. 66-94. - Same—Under jurisdiction of county superior court.
Any person who plans to hold or promote a mass gathering in the county submits himself to the jurisdiction and venue of the county superior court and waives his right to be heard in any other jurisdiction or venue. Any violators of this article may be enjoined by appropriate action in the county superior court.
(Res. of 9-5-79, § 9)
Secs. 66-95—66-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - NO SMOKING POLICY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2.

Sec. 66-121. - Prohibited acts.
The use of tobacco and the smoking of cigars, pipes and cigarettes in all county-owned and county-leased buildings is prohibited.
(Mo. of 2-11-91(1); Mo. of 3-11-91; Mo. of 3-21-91; Mo. of 4-8-91(2))
Secs. 66-122—66-150. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - SANITATION PERMITS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Regulations for septic tanks or individual sewerage management systems in unincorporated areas, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1.

Sec. 66-151. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Person means and includes all persons, both natural and artificial, and shall specifically include, but not be limited to, all corporations, partnerships, unincorporated associations and each and every other person who shall directly or indirectly erect and construct such improvements. However, nothing contained in this definition shall require the issuance of more than one sanitation permit by the county for each of the improvements.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 6)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 66-152. - Administration of article.
The board of commissioners hereby appoints the county board of health, its agents or employees, to administer the provisions of this article and specifically to accept applications for sanitation permits and to issue such as is provided in this article.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 4)
Sec. 66-153. - Required prior to construction work.
Any and all persons constructing, building, erecting or assembling any structure, building or other improvements or additions to improvements permanently affixed or attached to any real property for the purpose of human habitation, congregation or commerce within the county shall be required to obtain a sanitation permit issued by the board of commissioners or their designated agent prior to the beginning of such construction, erection or building.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 1)
Sec. 66-154. - Application; contents.
The application for such sanitation permit shall show plainly and distinctly the location of the sanitation facility to be constructed, the nature of such facility and the legal owner of the real property upon which the facility is to be constructed. Furthermore, the application for such permit shall clearly and distinctly show that the provisions of rule III, county board of health, and chapter 270-5-25, state department of human resources, rules and regulations for individual sewage disposal systems, are fully and completely complied with by such person applying for a sanitation permit.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 2)
Sec. 66-155. - Adoption of rules by reference.
The rules and regulations described in section 66-154 are hereby adopted by the board of commissioners as a part of this article and are incorporated in this section by reference, and any sanitation facility must fully satisfy the specifications and requirements of section 66-154 prior to its installation and use.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 3)
Sec. 66-156. - Fees.
The authority issuing such sanitation permits on behalf of the county shall collect from the applicant for such permit a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges or any such lesser fee as may be determined and established by resolution of the board of commissioners, which sums shall be paid into the treasury of the county.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 5)
Sec. 66-157. - Responsibility for obtaining; liability for penalties for noncompliance.
If such construction is being performed by any contractor or person having general supervision of such construction other than the owner of such real property, then it shall be the responsibility of such contractor to obtain the permit required under this article, and such contractor or person having charge or supervision of such construction shall be liable for any and all penalties for noncompliance with the provisions of this article, together with the owners of the real property upon which such improvement is located.
(Res. of 2-4-74, § 7)
Secs. 66-158—66-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - HEALTH HAZARD CONTROL

Sec. 66-181. - Provisions saved from repeal.
Ordinance number 1976-3, adopted March 1, 1976, on the subject of health hazards and unsanitary premises, is not repealed and shall continue in full force and effect pending a revision of the subject matter by the county.
