ARTICLE VIII. - TAX COMMISSIONER[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2705 pertaining to the county tax commissioner. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Code reference—Taxation, ch. 102.
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of property, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq.; limitation on taxing power of municipalities and counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ VIII; taxation power of municipal and county governments, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I.

Section 1. - Abolishment of present compensation system.
The present mode of compensating the tax commissioner of Tift County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished and in lieu thereof an annual salary for said officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. - [Reserved].
Editor's note— Section 2 provided for the amount of the annual salary for the tax commissioner. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183, minimum annual salaries for tax commissioners compensated by an annual salary are fixed according to population.
Section 3. - Fees—Collection; payment to county treasury; itemized statement.
After the effective date of this Act said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. Provided, however, that the governing authority of Tift County shall have the authority to require that such monies shall be turned in to and delivered to the office of the Board of Commissioners of Tift County on a daily basis or at such other intervals as may be specified from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Tift County. At the time of each such payment into the county treasury, said officer shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed itemized statement under oath of all funds received during the preceding period by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Section 3A. - Same—Uncollected.
All fees, costs, fines, forfeitures, commissions, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind earned by and accruing to the tax commissioner prior to the effective date of this Act, but uncollected by said date, shall when collected become the property of the tax commissioner of Tift County and he shall be entitled to collect and retain the same as a part of his own compensation.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 2410)
Section 4. - Same—Salary in lieu of.
It is specifically provided that the salary provided herein for the tax commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind including those commissions allowed by an Act approved March 9, 1955 (1955 Ga. Laws, page 659), as amended, relating to the sale of motor vehicle license plates by local tax officials, notwithstanding the fact that such services for which the commissions are derived may have been performed in the capacity of an agent of the State Revenue Department, and an Act relating to the commission on taxes collected in excess of a certain percentage of the taxes due according to the Tax Net Digest, approved January 17, 1938 (1938 Ga. Laws, page 297), as amended.
Section 5. - Appointment, assignment of duties and removal or replacement of deputies and other personnel.
Said officer shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office. Said official shall from time to time recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by his office together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of Tift County to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of said officer during his term of office to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants and other employees and to prescribe their duties and assignments and to remove or replace any such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
Section 6. - Operating expenses of office; furnishing of supplies.
The necessary operating expenses of said office expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees shall be paid from the funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles and equipment and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements for said office shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Tift County.
Section 7. - Bonds.
The official bonds of said officer and his respective deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as may be required by law shall be procured by said elected officer and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of his county funds available for that purpose.
