ARTICLE VI. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4193 which created the Tift County Board of Elections and Registration. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Creation; powers and duties.
Pursuant to authorization contained in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b), there is created a Tift County Board of Elections and Registration and said board is empowered with the powers and duties of the election superintendent relating to the conduct of elections and with the powers and duties of the board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee-balloting procedures.
Section 2. - Composition; qualifications; terms; election of chairperson.
(a)
The Tift County Board of Elections and Registration shall be comprised of five members.
(b)
The members of said board shall be electors and residents of Tift County and shall be selected in the following manner: two members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of the county[,] one of whom shall serve an initial term of four years[,] and one of whom shall serve an initial term of one year; one member shall be appointed by the probate judge of the county and shall serve an initial term of three years; one member shall be appointed by the Georgia General Assembly Representative from House District No. 138 and shall serve an initial term of four years; one member shall be appointed by the chief superior court judge of the county and shall serve an initial term of two years. The initial appointments shall be made and the appointees commissioned not later than 30 days from the effective date of this Act. Thereafter, members shall be appointed by their respective appointing authority for terms of office of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The members of the board shall elect one of their number to serve as chairperson.
Section 3. - Eligibility for office; oath.
(a)
Any elector and resident of Tift County shall be eligible for membership on the board of elections and registration except that no person who holds elective public office shall be eligible during the term of such elective office; and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
(b)
Each member of the board of elections and registration shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars before entering upon his or her duties. Each member shall have the same privileges from arrest provided by law for registrars.
Section 4. - Appointments.
The appointment of each member shall be made by the respective appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court no later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. In the event any appointing authority fails (1) to make a regular appointment within the times specified in this section and in Section 2, or (2) to make an interim appointment to fill a vacancy within 90 days after the occurrence of such vacancy, such regular member or the member to fill such vacancy shall be appointed forthwith by the county governing authority.
Section 5. - Succession; resignation; removal.
Members of the board shall be eligible to succeed themselves and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to their respective appointing authority and to the clerk of the superior court and shall be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause after notice and hearing in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Section 6. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of his term, by removal, death, or resignation, or otherwise, the respective appointing authority shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members is recorded and certified.
Section 7. - Official capacity; privileges.
The official capacity of the board provided for under this Act shall become effective as soon as all members are duly appointed but not later than 30 days after the effective date of this Act. Before entering upon his duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Section 8. - Delivery of all equipment and facilities.
Upon the effective date of this Act creating the Tift County Board of Elections and Registration, the present Board of Registrars of Tift County shall be abolished and shall deliver to the chairperson of the board, upon his written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties. The election superintendent of Tift County shall likewise be relieved of any responsibilities pertaining to the conduct of elections and shall deliver to the chairperson of the board, upon his written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
Section 9. - Empowerment by provisions of state law; budget.
(a)
The Tift County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
(b)
The Tift County Board of Elections and Registration is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee-balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. (O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b) and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
(d)
The board shall propose an annual budget to the county governing authority for approval or negotiation detailing the expenditures necessary for the execution of its duties.
Section 10. - Compensation.
Compensation for members of the board of elections and registration shall be fixed by the county governing authority and shall be paid from county funds. The governing authority shall provide the board with suitable office space and other needs and assistance as necessary for the board to execute its responsibilities.
Section 11. - Chief executive officer; duties generally.
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall be the chief executive officer and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
