Chapter 86 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city saved from repeal § 1-6(5); any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city saved from repeal, § 1-6(11); aviation, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; cemeteries, ch. 26; environment, ch. 42; historic preservation, ch. 54; parks and recreation, ch. 66; peddlers and solicitors, ch. 70; planning, ch. 74; traffic and vehicles, ch. 94; utilities, ch. 98.
State Law reference— Constitutional powers regarding streets, Ga. Const. 1983, art. IX, § 11, ¶ III(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 86-1. - Specifications generally.
All streets, sidewalks, and other public works in the city shall be constructed, reconstructed, maintained and repaired in compliance with specifications therefor adopted by the mayor and city council from time to time and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-1)
Sec. 86-2. - House numbers required.
(a)
The owner of each residence house or commercial building in the city shall place on the front thereof a number designated by the city.
(b)
Numerals shall be no less than three inches in height and of a color which is readily visible from the street when placed on the front of the building.
(c)
Should any owner of buildings required to be numbered by this section fail or refuse to comply with this section, such building shall be numbered by the city and the cost thereof taxed against the owner of such building.
(Code 1988, § 8-2-23)
Sec. 86-3. - Sidewalk displays.
(a)
The sidewalk display of wares, signs or merchandise is hereby authorized by permit issued by the code enforcement officer in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
Each request for such display shall be in writing with a location sketch drawn to scale showing the proposed display areas and all obstructions such as trees, trash cans, et cetera.
(2)
The sidewalk display of wares, signs or merchandise shall not obstruct any exit way to the open street nor obstruct any parking or parking access.
(3)
No display or sign shall be placed on the sidewalk within 20 feet of an intersection.
(4)
A five-foot uninterrupted passageway shall be maintained at all times.
(5)
Display shall be a minimum of 18 inches from the curb.
(6)
Displays shall not be stacked.
(7)
Only one sidewalk sign per storefront will be allowed and must be next to the building.
(8)
Vending machines other than for newspapers are not allowed.
(b)
The code enforcement officer will review and approve all applications that comply with these regulations. Application must be made annually.
(c)
Upon approval of application, a certificate of liability insurance showing the City of Monroe as an additional named insured in the amount of $1,000,000.00 shall be required before a permit is issued.
(d)
All curbside displays of wares and merchandise shall be removed from the sidewalk prior to closing time of the business.
(e)
Suspension or revocation of permit.
(1)
Any business that continues to disregard any sidewalk display regulation after one written warning within any six month period shall have the sidewalk display privileges revoked for a period of 12 months.
(2)
Any business that fails to maintain occupation tax certificate or ad valorem tax in a current condition shall have the sidewalk display privileges revoked for a period of 12 months.
(Ord. No. 2004-05, 7-6-2004; Ord. No. 2005-02, 3-1-2005)
Sec. 86-4. - Gates obstructing sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or tenant of any property to allow a gate to swing open from his yard or lot, within the city limits, so as to obstruct the passage of persons on the sidewalk, or any portion of the same.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-4)
Sec. 86-5. - Obstructing streets, sidewalks, drain-ditches.
Any person who shall place any obstruction in or upon any part of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city and shall fail to remove the same after receiving notice by the chief of police or his designated representative to do so, or who shall fill up or obstruct any drain-ditch opened by authority of the city, shall, on conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-5)
Sec. 86-6. - Sale of produce or merchandise on certain streets.
Except for permitted special events, it shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy any of the streets or alleys in the city between the north side of Highland Avenue on the north, and the south side of Washington Street on the south, and the east side of Midland Avenue on the east, and the west side of Jackson on the west, for the purpose of selling or occupying or using for sale any fruits, vegetables, or any other kind of goods, wares or merchandise, whether the goods are sold or offered for sale from a truck, wagon, any other kind of vehicle or stand.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-6)
Sec. 86-7. - Trees and shrubs; damaging prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, destroy or injure any of the trees and shrubs growing in or upon any of the public property or streets of the city; provided nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the city from trimming or removing the same at its discretion.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-7)
Sec. 86-8. - Construction resulting in dirt tracked or washed into streets and onto adjacent property.
Where construction and/or land clearing activities are exempt from the soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements of the city, the contractor shall install and maintain sediment control measures sufficient to prevent the tracking or washing of dirt onto public streets and adjacent property. Such control measures shall be subject to the approval of the code enforcement officer and may include, but not be limited to, use of silt screens and/or hay bales surrounding the construction site or construction exit.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-8)
Sec. 86-9. - Riding bicycles on public sidewalks; riding roller skates, roller blades, or skateboards on public sidewalks or on public streets.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk located within the following areas:
(1)
South Broad Street from Alcovy Street north to the intersections of North Broad Street at Williams Street on the east and Walton Street on the west.
(2)
Spring Street from Wayne Street east to Midland Avenue.
(3)
Court Street west to Broad Street.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, ride a skateboard, or ride a bicycle on any portion of a public sidewalk in any zoning district where the door of an adjacent building opens directly onto the sidewalk. The beginning and end of each such portion of sidewalk shall have a sign stating that riding on the sidewalk is prohibited between the signs.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade, or ride a skateboard on any public street within the areas designated.
(d)
Any person who is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall yield to right-of-way to any pedestrian.
(Ord. No. 2002-01, 4-2-2002)
Secs. 86-10—86-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 86-41. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into or disturb in any manner the paving on any paved street or sidewalk of the city without having first obtained a permit from the city council.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-3(a))
Sec. 86-42. - Permit application.
Any person desiring to cut into or disturb in any manner the paving on any paved street or sidewalk of the city shall first make application to the code enforcement officer on the form provided by the city for a permit to conduct the pavement disturbing activity.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-3(b))
Sec. 86-43. - Issuance of permit restricted.
The permit required by this article shall not be granted unless:
(1)
The application is accompanied by the appropriate permit fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(2)
The contractor who is to perform the work provides proof to the satisfaction of the code enforcement officer of liability insurance with limits of not less than $200,000.00.
(3)
The code enforcement officer, in his discretion has determined that the cutting of the street cannot be avoided by boring underneath the street from one side to the other.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-3(c))
Sec. 86-44. - Appeal of denial.
If the application for a permit required by this article is denied, the applicant, in writing, may appeal such denial within three business days. The applicant shall then have the right to appeal such denial to the mayor and city council, which shall make the final decision thereon.
(Code 1988, § 5-1-3(d))
Sec. 86-45. - Responsibilities.
The contractor who shall actually perform the work permitted under this article shall have the responsibility for cutting the street and ditching as necessary to make the desired improvements and shall be responsible for the repair of the pavement to original condition. A compaction test performed by the city will be required before placing base and paving. Ditches and shoulders shall be returned to as near original condition as possible by seeding and strawing or other methods necessary to accomplish the work. Work will be done in conformance with the city standard construction requirements.
Secs. 86-46—86-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARADES, DEMONSTRATIONS, ETC.[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 94.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 86-76. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assembly means a crowd of more than four persons standing, congregated or assembled upon any of the streets, sidewalks, public ways or public property of the city.
Demonstration has its usual meaning, considering the context in which it is used in this article.
Parade means any procession, excepting funerals, weddings or city-sponsored processions provided police escort, containing 25 or more persons or five or more vehicles.
Picketing has its usual meaning, considering the context in which it is used in this article.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(b))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 86-77—86-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 86-101. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to organize or hold, or to assist in organizing or holding, or to take part or participate in, any parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly or picket on the streets, sidewalks, public ways, or public property of the city unless otherwise allowed by state or federal law without first obtaining a written permit for the allowance of the same from the city.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(a))
Sec. 86-102. - Application.
Written application for a permit shall be made to the city at least ten days prior to the date of the proposed parade procession, public demonstration, assembly, or picket, indicating the hour, date, proposed route over which it is desired to have the parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly, or picket pass and the probable number of persons and/or vehicles which will be engaged in such parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly or picket. Such application shall specifically list each street, sidewalk, public way, or public property over, along or in which it is desired to have or hold such parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly or picket.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(c))
Sec. 86-103. - Issuance.
The city shall issue a permit allowing a procession, public demonstration, assembly or picket within three days after application therefor. Such permit shall prescribe the route of such activity by listing the streets, sidewalks, public ways or public property over which the parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly, or picket shall pass.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(d))
Sec. 86-104. - Modification.
If it is determined by the city that a modification in the proposed activity requiring a permit under this division is required in the best interests of the city, the application may be so modified by the city. The written permit shall set forth the basis for any modification of the requested route. Any modification of a requested route shall be based on a consideration of the public welfare, peace, safety, health, good order and convenience of the general public necessitating regulations of pedestrian and vehicular traffic along the proposed route.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(e))
Sec. 86-105. - Deviation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use for purposes permitted under this division any street, sidewalk or public way other than those specifically set out in the permit.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(f))
Sec. 86-106. - Orderly conduct.
All parades, processions, public demonstrations, assemblies, or pickets shall be conducted under the supervision of the person making application for the same, and shall be conducted in a peaceable and orderly manner in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(g))
Sec. 86-107. - Signs.
In the conduct of parades, processions, public demonstrations, assemblies or pickets, no signs, shields or banners shall be placed or carried by any person upon the sidewalks of the city, that extend beyond the width of the person's body or extend more than 24 inches above the person's head; and persons carrying any such signs, shields, or banners shall be at least ten feet apart, shall not stand or loiter in front of any doorway, driveway or street intersection, and shall not interfere with the general flow of traffic whether pedestrian or vehicular.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(g))
Sec. 86-108. - Appeals.
If the application for a permit under this division is denied, or where the issued permit modifies the proposed route of the parade, procession, public demonstration, assembly, or picket as originally set forth in the application, the applicant may appeal such modification to the city council by filing within five days of the denial or issuance of the permit a written notice with the city clerk setting forth objections to the denial or modification. The city council shall review such notice and issue a decision within three days. The city council shall have the power to amend or modify the written permit in any particular.
(Code 1988, § 9-6-1(h))
