ARTICLE XX - A, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

Section 2001. - Purpose and intent.
The Agricultural District is established to maintain those areas with land characteristics such as solid moisture, temperature and content suitable for farming, dairying, forestry operations and other agricultural activities; to protect land used or needed for food production and other agricultural uses from encroachment by untimely and unplanned residential, commercial or industrial development; to permit the continuation of agricultural uses in areas where development is anticipated, but where the present application of zoning controls for future, more intensive uses would be unreasonable and premature; prevent the subdivision of land for residential development that requires public services such as paved roads, water and sanitary sewer; and to preserve the rural, open space character of certain areas.
Section 2002. - Permitted uses.
1.
Agricultural uses including and production of field crops, fruits, nuts and vegetables; the raising of livestock and poultry; dairying; horticulture; forestry and fisheries; and other uses involving agricultural operations.
2.
Animal hospitals.
3.
Cemeteries.
4.
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship.
5.
Dwellings, single-family provided each dwelling is located on a lot that is a minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and minimum lot width of two hundred (200) feet.
6.
Farm buildings, including barns, chicken houses, grain storage facilities, implement sheds, and structures accessory to agricultural use.
7.
Manufactured or mobile homes on individual lots, subject to the following requirements:
• All manufactured homes must be placed on a permanent foundation.
• All manufactured homes shall be installed in compliance with the "Rules and Regulations for Manufactured Homes" made and promulgated by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner, as may be amended from time to time.
• All towing devices, wheels, axles, and hitches must be removed or skirted.
• Each home shall be completely skirted with an appropriate barrier, properly ventilated, to enclose the area between the bottom of the structure and the ground. Such skirting shall not be required for those homes with a complete masonry or concrete perimeter foundation.
• All manufactured or mobile homes must meet the standards and regulations of the Building Code Ordinance of Alto. The Building Code Ordinance of Alto shall be controlling over any provision of that ordinance as to the type and manner of construction of any building.
• All manufactured or mobile homes must meet the design standards and requirements for manufactured or mobile homes in Section 720.
8.
Home occupations.
9.
Horse stables.
10.
Kennels.
11.
Marinas and boat storage yards.
12.
Mobile and manufactured homes, provided each home is located on a lot that is a minimum of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and a minimum lot width of two hundred (200) feet.
13.
Nurseries and greenhouses; plants, trees and shrubs.
14.
Produce stands, provided products sold are those grown or produces on the premises.
15.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
16.
Schools, public elementary and secondary, and public and private colleges and universities.
17.
Schools, parochial, private and others offering courses in general education not operated for profit.
Section 2003. - Conditional uses.
1.
Farm supply stores and agricultural-related businesses, such as agricultural implement sales and service, auction facilities, feed and grain stores and other businesses not involving sales or services to the general public, provided such business is located on property a minimum of two (2) acres that fronts on a state or federal highway, and provided such buildings or uses are not located within 500 feet of abutting property zoned or utilized for single-family or mobile home use.
2.
Boarding homes, dormitories and lodging houses for agricultural workers, provided such dwellings are located on a farm with a minimum size of twenty (20) acres, provision is made to meet all applicable public health requirements, land provided such lodging is intended only for the temporary or seasonal housing of farm workers.
3.
Clubs, lodges, fraternal institutions and other places of assembly for non-profit membership groups, provided such use is located on property a minimum of two (2) acres that fronts on a state or federal highway.
4.
Radio and television broadcasting towers, including studios or offices, provided such use is not located within 500 feet of abutting property zoned or utilized for a residence, and provided the height of such tower does not exceed 150 feet without specific authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration and Federal Communications Commission.
Section 2004. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 2005. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 2002 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 2001 of this ordinance.
