ARTICLE XIII - NS, NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING BUSINESS DISTRICT

Section 1301. - Purpose and intent.
The Neighborhood Shopping Business District is intended to provided area for limited small-scale commercial uses of a convenience nature serving nearby residential neighborhoods as opposed to a regional market. The district is not intended to accommodate automotive or other types of more intensive commercial activities that are of such magnitude or type that would result in the generation of excessive traffic, noise, odors, pollution, safety hazards which could be considered a nuisance as designed under Georgia law to the nearby residential neighborhoods, or other adverse impacts which would detract from the desirability of adjacent properties for residential use. In general, the neighborhood shopping business district includes offices and retail and service establishments but excludes those highway-oriented, high traffic generating uses and those which involve use of chemicals and outside sales, storage or display. Institutionalized residential facilities are considered compatible uses in this district.
Section 1302. - Permitted uses.
1.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to principal permitted uses and structures.
2.
Art galleries and museums.
3.
Church, temples, synagogues and places of worship, and their customary accessory uses and structures, including cemeteries.
4.
Clubs, lodges, fraternal institutions and other places of public assembly for membership groups, non-profit or for profit, not to exceed 10,000 square feet of gross floor area.
5.
Continuing care retirement communities.
6.
Convalescent homes.
7.
Day care centers.
8.
Finance, insurance and real estate establishments.
9.
Nursing homes.
10.
Offices.
11.
Personal care homes, family, group and congregate.
12.
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
13.
Restaurants, but not including drive-in or drive-through facilities.
14.
Retail trade establishments, enclosed.
15.
Schools, public elementary, middle and secondary, and public and private colleges and universities.
16.
Schools parochial, private, vocational, technical, business and others, non-profit or operated for profit.
17.
Services, business.
18.
Services, health.
19.
Services, personal.
20.
Shopping centers.
Section 1303. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1304. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1302 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1301 of this ordinance.
