Chapter 20 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 20-1. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with a violation of any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as herein provided. Such summons may be issued by the city administrator, the building inspector, or any code enforcement officer. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the occurrence of the infraction and the day, hour, and place of trial, requiring the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by a code enforcement officer either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, except that in the case of a summons issued in violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person, such as the owner of an automobile designated in the summons and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1985, § 5-105)
Sec. 20-2. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him shall be guilty of contempt of court and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished for same.
(Code 1985, § 5-107)
Sec. 20-3. - Arrest and bond.
When a law enforcement officer has arrested any person for violation of any provision of this Code or any municipal ordinance and a trial cannot be had immediately, the officer may take a cash bond not exceeding the maximum fine for the offense or a bond with a good security to secure the appearance of such person before the judge of the municipal court. If such person fails or refuses to give a bond, the officer may confine him in the city or county jail until a trial can be held, provided that the mayor, in his discretion, may release such person on his own recognizance without security.
(Code 1985, § 5-108)
Sec. 20-4. - Forfeiture of bond.
Upon the failure of a person to appear in the municipal court at the time and place fixed by the summons, the judge of said court shall enter a judgment of forfeiture on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety bond, shall pass on any cash bond, or, in the case of a security bond, shall pass a rule requiring the principal and surety on such bond to show cause on the date named therein, which date shall not be less than ten days from the passage of such ruling, why they should not be required to pay the amount of said bond. If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge shall enter judgment against the principal and surety for the amount of the forfeited bond and shall direct the city clerk to issue execution thereon.
(Code 1985, § 5-109)
Sec. 20-5. - Court costs.
The court costs, which shall be charged against a defendant in the municipal court in the event of his conviction, shall not exceed $5.00, which sum shall be paid into the city treasury.
(Code 1985, § 5-110)
Sec. 20-6. - Malicious prosecution.
Whenever the judge of the municipal court, after a fair and full trial, is satisfied that any case was frivolously or maliciously prosecuted, he shall assess the prosecution with the court costs and such punitive damages as he deems appropriate.
(Code 1985, § 5-111)
Sec. 20-7. - Collection of fines.
When directed by the judge of the municipal court, the city clerk shall issue executions for fines imposed by said court, including the costs, which executions may be levied upon any goods or chattels, lands, or tenements of the person so fined.
(Code 1985, § 5-112)
