ARTICLE IX. - CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, AND PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS

Sec. 18-308. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Carnival means and includes amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths for the conduct of games of skill, food-dispensing facilities, and sideshows.
Public exhibition means and includes circuses, menageries, sideshows, and other similar itinerant amusement enterprises which are open to the public and for admission to which a fee is charged.
(Code 1985, ยง 9-912(2))
Sec. 18-309. - Exemption.
Nothing in this article shall be held to apply to local nonprofit organizations holding fund raising carnivals or public organizations.
(Code 1985, ยง 9-212(6))
Sec. 18-310. - License.
(a)
No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct or operate a circus, carnival, or public exhibition, as such terms are defined herein, without having first obtained a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
The business license fee imposed on each circus, carnival, or public exhibition operating within the city limits shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Type of Business License Fee Amount
Circuses $200.00 per day
Carnivals $100.00 per day
Sideshows and concessions $100.00 per day
Rides $100.00 per day
Other public exhibitions $75.00 per day
  (c)
No license under this article shall be issued until the following conditions have been met:
(1)
The operator and sponsor of the circus, carnival, or public exhibition must have each assumed full responsibility for maintaining order and for keeping the site clean and free of trash, papers, and other debris, and have placed trash containers in adequate number and in convenient locations for the use of the public;
(2)
All rides have been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical, and other hazards by the appropriate officers and employees of the city, and adequate safeguards have been placed to protect both operators and the general public from inadvertently coming into contact with moving parts, belts, motor gears, electrical switches, and other possible or potential hazards;
(3)
The applicant has placed on file with the city clerk a certificate of insurance, indicating that there is in effect public liability insurance covering any damages arising out of the use and operation of any and all devices and facilities operated in connection with such carnival or exhibition. Such insurance shall be in the minimum amount of $100,000.00 for each person, and $300,000.00 for each accident.
(Code 1985, ยง 9-212(1), (3), (4))
