ARTICLE XVIII - M-I, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Section 1801. - Purpose and intent.
The Light Industrial District is established with the purpose of reserving certain areas with relatively level topography, adequate water and sewerage facilities and access to arterial streets for industrial operations, but where such areas' proximity to residential and other districts makes it desirable to limit industrial operations to those that are not objectionable by reason of the emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or radiation which could be considered a nuisance under Georgia law, and that do not create fire or explosion hazards or other objectionable conditions. Uses within this district do not require substantial quantities of water for manufacturing operations and do not necessarily require rail, air and water transportation. Certain commercial uses having an open storage characteristic, or which are most appropriately located as neighbors of industrial uses, are also included within this district.
Section 1802. - Permitted uses.
1.
Accessory uses and structures normally incidental to permitted principal uses, including offices, showrooms and administrative facilities.
2.
Contractor's establishments.
3.
Distribution of products and merchandise.
4.
Dry-cleaning plants.
5.
Exterminators and pest control businesses.
6.
Extraction and processing of water for commercial sale.
7.
Ice manufacturing plant.
8.
Kennels.
9.
Machine shops.
10.
Mini-warehouse and mini-storage facilities.
11.
Public and semi-public buildings, uses and structures.
12.
Radio and television broadcasting towers.
13.
Repair of household appliances.
14.
Research and scientific laboratories.
15.
Residences for caretaker or night watchman.
16.
Sign fabrication and painting shops.
17.
Services, automotive.
18.
Storage buildings and storage yards.
19.
Soft drink bottling and distributing plants.
20.
Transportation, communication and utility facilities.
21.
Warehousing, wholesaling, storage or manufacturing uses permitted in any other district except M-II Heavy Industrial.
22.
Welding shops.
23.
Wholesaling, wholesale distribution and warehousing facilities.
Section 1803. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1804. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1802 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1801 of this ordinance.
