ARTICLE IX - R-II, MODERATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 901. - Purpose and intent.
This district is intended to establish and preserve quiet, stable residential neighborhoods at moderate densities (approximately 2 units per acre), free from other uses except those which are compatible with the convenient to the residents of such a district.
Section 902. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted in the R-I, Single-Family Residential District, as specified in Section 802, and subject to the same standards except as indicated in Article XXII. (Home occupations are conditional uses).
2.
Accessory apartments, as defined in Article III, subject to compliance with Section 719.
3.
Single-Family attached dwellings (townhouses), subject to the Townhouse Regulations as specified in Section 904.
4.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes), and triplexes with a minimum of 12,000 square feet of land area per dwelling.
Section 903. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 904. - Townhouse development regulations.
All developments containing fee-simple townhouses shall conform to the following requirements.
1.
Lots - Each townhouse shall be located on its own lot of record, and subdivision plat approval shall be required in accordance with the Town of Alto Subdivision Regulations.
2.
Minimum Lot Size, Frontage, Width - Each townhouse lot shall contain a minimum lot area of two thousand (2,000) square feet. The minimum lot width and frontage for each lot shall be eighteen (18) feet. The minimum lot area for a townhouse development shall be one (1) acre.
3.
Setbacks - Townhouses shall conform to the setbacks established for the zoning district in which it is located; provided, however, that zero lot line (no side building setback) is permitted between individual townhouse units forming the same building. Between buildings, there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty-five (25) feet. The rear setback shall be a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet. Dwelling units which form a part of a single building shall have the front setbacks and rooflines varied/staggered by a minimum of two (2) feet.
4.
Maximum Units Per Building - No more than six (6) townhouses shall be permitted to form any building.
Section 905. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 902 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 901 of this ordinance.
