ARTICLE III - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN ORDINANCE

Section 301. - Definitions.
When used in this Ordinance, the following words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this Article. Terms not herein defined shall have their customary dictionary definitions where not inconsistent with the context. The term "shall" is mandatory. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future.
Abandonment: The cessation of the use of the property, by the owner or lessee without an intention of transferring rights to the property to another owner or of resuming the use of the property.
Abutting: Having property or district lines in common, or having property separated by only an alley. Separation by a street right-of-way is not considered abutting except for purposes of annexation.
Accessory Apartment: A second dwelling unit either in or added to an existing single-family detached dwelling, or in a separate accessory structure on the same lot as the main dwelling, for use as a complete, independent living facility for a single housekeeping unit (family), with provision within the accessory apartment for cooking, eating, sanitation, and sleeping. Such a dwelling is considered an accessory use and/or structure to the main dwelling.
Accessory Building or Use: A building or use which: is not more than two (2) stories in height; is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use; is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or use served,; contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the principal building or principal use; and is located on the same lot as the principal building or principal use.
Agriculture: The cultivation or growth of a field or horticultural crop, including dairying, livestock and poultry raising, farm forestry, and other similar enterprises or use.
Airport: Any area of land, water or mechanical structure which is used for the landing and take-off of aircraft, including any appurtenant structures and areas which are used or intended to be used for airport buildings, other airport facilities, rights-of-ways or easements.
Alley: A private or public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to a building or abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
Alteration: Any change in the supporting members of a building, any modification or change in construction, any addition which increases the area or height, any change in use from that of one district classification to another.
Amusement Arcade: A building or part of a building in which three (3) or more pinball machines, coin-operated billiard tables, videogames, or other similar player-operated amusement devices are maintained.
Animal Hospital: A facility operated by a licensed veterinarian specifically for the practice of veterinary medicine.
Antenna: Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, television or other communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves. This definition should be distinguished from a "Domestic Antenna" that is primarily used for residential purposes and/or amateur radio operators.
Antique Shop: A store or shop for the sale or relics, objects of ancient times or of an earlier period, works of art, pieces of furniture or decorative objects made at a much earlier period than present.
Apartment House: A multi-family dwelling located on a parcel of land under a single ownership, designed for use by three or more housekeeping units, living independently of each other, and doing their own cooking on the premises.
Architectural Treatment: Exterior design features, materials of construction and finishes which combine to produce an aesthetic structure in harmony with the architectural zone in which the building or structure is located. Such treatment may include brick, stone, stucco, glass, wood or other materials uniformly accepted in the related industries.
Art Gallery: A facility, structure or building used for the display of sculptures, paintings, photographs or other artistic works for public viewing with only incidental sales.
Automated Teller: An accessory facility through which certain banking functions such as deposits and withdrawals can be completed without the personal assistance of a bank employee.
Automotive Repair Garage: A use of land and/or structures involving maintenance, repair, conversion and other such services on cars, trucks, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, and mobile/ manufactured homes, typically including vehicle storage and incidental sales of parts. Also referred to as automotive services.
Automobile Sales Lot: An area of land on which more than one (1) car, truck, van, boat, agricultural vehicle or implement, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, or other motorized vehicle exists, and where such vehicles are indicated as for sale, as evidenced by "for sale" signs, dealers tags, warranty signs in windows, or other such indications.
Basement: That portion of a building located wholly or partly underground but having less than one-half of its height above the grade. A basement shall not be counted as a story for the purposes of determining maximum permitted height.
Bed and Breakfast Inn: A dwelling unit, or portion thereof, where short-term lodging rooms, with or without meals, are provided for compensation, and where the operator of the inn resides on the premises.
Bedroom: Any space in the heated area of a dwelling unit or accessory structure which is 70 square feet and greater in size and which is located along an exterior wall, but not including the following; hall; bathroom; kitchen; living room; dining room; family room; laundry room; or closet/dressing room opening off of a bedroom.
Berm: An earthen structure used as a screening device in conjunction with the planting of grass, shrubbery and trees.
Biomedical Waste: Pathological waste, biological waste, cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated biologicals, contaminated animal carcasses (body parts, their bedding, and other wastes from such animals), sharps, chemotherapy waste, discarded medical equipment and parts, not including expendable supplies and materials which have not been decontaminated, as further defined in Rule 391-3-4-1.5 of the Board of Natural Resources of the State of Georgia, as amended, and other such waste materials, including but not limited to the following:
(a)
Pathological waste means all recognizable human tissues and body parts which are removed during surgery, obstetrical procedures, autopsy, and laboratory procedures.
(b)
Biological waste means bulk blood and blood products, exudates, secretions, suctionings, and other bulk body fluids which cannot or are not directly discarded into the municipal sewer system.
(c)
Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated biologicals includes cultures from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research and industrial laboratories, waste from the production of biologicals, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures.
(d)
Contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, their bedding, and other waste from such animals which have been exposed to infectious agents, capable of causing disease in man, during research, production of biologicals, or testing of pharmaceuticals.
(e)
Sharps mean any discarded article which may cause punctures or cuts. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, items such as needles, IV tubing or syringes and needles attached and scalpel blades.
(f)
Chemotherapy waste means any disposable material which has come in contact with cytotoxic/antineoplastic agents (agents toxic to cells) and/or any neoplastic agents (agents that inhibit or prevent the growthread of tumors or malignant cells) during the preparation, handling, and administration of such agents. Such waste includes, but is not limited to, masks, gloves, gowns, empty IV tubing bags and valves, and other contaminated materials. The above waste must first be classified as empty which means such quantity that it is to subject to Federal or State waste management regulations prior to being handled as biomedical waste.
(g)
Discarded medical equipment and parts, not including expendable supplies and materials which have not been decontaminated, that were in contact with infectious agents.
Biomedical Waste Disposal Facility: Any facility or location where the final deposition of biomedical waste occurs and includes but is not limited to landfilling and biomedical waste thermal treatment technology facilities (which would include incineration).
(a)
Incineration shall mean a controlled process by which solid, liquid and gaseous combustible waste are burned and changed into gases and a residue produced which is relatively free of combustible materials.
(b)
Incinerator shall mean all devices intended or used for the reduction or destruction of solid, liquid or gaseous waste by burning.
(c)
Incineration facility shall mean the combined incinerators under one ownership at a single location.
Boarding House: A building, where compensation, both lodging and meals are provided for persons, provided that single-family dwelling shall not be deemed to be a boarding house by reason of a contribution to or expense-sharing arrangement with the owner or tenant occupying the dwelling by a person related by blood or marriage.
Broadcasting Studio: A room or suite or rooms operated as a radio or television broadcasting studio or station with local broadcast capability or intended for satellite distribution of programs.
Buffer: A landscaped open space and/or screen located between incompatible land uses for the purpose of visibility separating uses through distance and to shield or block noise, light, glare, or visual or other nuisances; that portion of a given lot, not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, access and service areas, established for the purpose of screening and separating properties with incompatible land uses, the width of which is measured from the common property line and extending the developed portion of the natural vegetation undisturbed by grading or site development and replanted where sparsely vegetated or where disturbed for approved access and utility crossings.
Building Area: The portion of a lot remaining after required yards, buffers and building setbacks have been provided, where construction of principal buildings is permitted. Also known as building "envelope."
Building: Any structure, either temporary or permanent, above or below ground, having a roof or other covering, and designed, built, or used as shelter or enclosure for persons, animals, or property of any kind.
Building Inspector: The Building Inspector of the Town of Alto, or his authorized representative, as designated by the Governing Body of Alto.
Building, Principal: A building or structure in which is conducted the main use of the property on which the building or structure is located. In any residential district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be defined to be the principal building on the lot on which is structure is located.
Building Setback Line: A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the main or front wall of a building, including any covered porches, and the street right-of-way or property line when measured perpendicularly thereto. In the case of corner lots or double-frontage lots, front-yard requirements shall be observed for those areas adjacent to street right-of-ways.
Bus Terminal: An area and building where buses stop to load and unload passengers and luggage or packages and which may include the sale of bus tickets.
Business or Commerce: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling or disposition of any article, service, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit; or the management of office building, offices, recreational or amusement enterprises; or the maintenance and use of offices, structures and premises by professions and trade rendering services.
Campground: Land containing two (2) or more campsites which are located, established or maintained for occupancy by people in temporary lodging units such as camp tents, or cabins, for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
Car Wash: An establishment engaged in the business of washing vehicles with self-serve, automated or staffed facilities.
Carport: An accessory structure or portion of a principal structure, consisting of a roof and supporting members such as columns or beams, unenclosed from the ground to the roof on at least two (2) sides, and designed or used for the storage of motor vehicles or boats.
Cemetery: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, but not including crematories and mortuaries.
Centerline of Street: That line surveyed and monumented by the Governing Body and designated as the center of a public street. If a centerline has not been surveyed, it shall be the line running midway between the outside curbs, ditches, right-of-way edges, or pavement edges of such street.
Certificate of Occupancy: A legal statement or document issued by the Building Inspector indicating that the building and use or reuse of a particular building or land is in conformity with all applicable codes and regulations, and that such building or land may be occupied for the purpose stated therein.
Church: An institution that people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meeting and other purposes, including education, day care and recreation facilities when owned and operated by such church.
Circus: The temporary use of land offering entertainment and instruction in the form of such things as thrill rides, games of chance and skill, educational exhibits, display of oddities and the like. The terms also include carnivals and fairs.
Clinic: A building designed and used for the diagnosis and treatment of patients that does not include overnight care facilities.
Club, Non-Profit: A building or facilities owned or operated by a group for social, educational or recreational purposes, but not customarily for profit or to render a service that is customarily carried on for gain.
College: A degree-granting establishment, accredited or qualified, which provides formal academic education and generally requiring for admission at least a high school diploma and equivalent academic training. Accessory uses under this definition include but are not limited to dormitories, cafeterias, bookstores research facilities, sports facilities and auditoriums.
Commercial Recreation Facility: Any use of building and/or land that involves the provision of sports and leisure activities to the general public for a fee, including but not limited to the following: amphitheaters and stadiums; assembly halls, auditoriums and meeting halls; billiard halls, pool rooms and amusement/video arcades; bowling alleys; firearms shooting ranges and turkey shoots; golf driving ranges, public golf courses, miniature golf courses and baseball batting cages; private clubs operated for profit, race tracks for animals and motor-driven vehicles, ice and roller skating rinks; horse and pony-riding rinks; circuses and carnivals; indoor and drive-in theaters; physical fitness facilities and health clubs; botanical gardens and zoological gardens; commercial museums and art galleries, racquetball courts; bungee jumping.
Compatibility: The characteristics of different uses or activities that permit such uses or activities to be located near each other in harmony and without conflict. Some elements affecting compatibility include: intensity of occupancy as measured by dwelling units per acre or gross square footage per acre; pedestrian or vehicular traffic generated; volume of goods handled, and such environmental effects as noise, vibration, odor, glare, air pollution or radiation.
Comprehensive Plan: Those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the Governing Body for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
Conditional Use: A use which would not be appropriate without restriction throughout a zoning district and is not automatically permitted by right within a zoning district, but which may be permitted within a zoning district subject to meeting specific conditions (such as controls on number, size, area, location and activities) contained in these regulations or required by the Governing Body. Such uses may be permitted only if approved by the Governing Body in accordance with regulations established herein.
Conditional Zoning: The granting or adoption of zoning for property subject to compliance with restrictions as to use, size, density or actions stipulated by the Governing Body to mitigate adverse impacts that are anticipated without imposition of such conditions.
Condominium (Residential Building): A building or complex of multiple-unit dwellings in which a tenant holds full title to his unit and joint membership in the common grounds.
Continuing Care Retirement Community: An age-restricted development or facility that provides, to individuals of retirement status, accommodations and care such as board, independent living, licensed nursing care and medical or other health-related services, and that typically enters into contracts to provide care.
Contractor's Establishment: An establishment engaged in the provision of construction activities including but not limited to plumbing, electrical work, building, paving, carpentry and other such contracting activities, including the storage of materials and the overnight parking of commercial vehicles.
Conservation Development, see definition Sustainable Growth Design.
Convalescent Home: A home for the care of children or the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, wherein two (2) or more persons are professionally cared for.
Convenience Store: A small retail store which sells pre-packaged food products, household and other items and which may include the sale of gasoline and diesel fuel.
Conversion: Any change in the original use or purpose of a building or lot to a different use.
Curb Cut: A provision for vehicular ingress and/or egress between property and an abutting public street.
Day Care Center: Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution or group wherein seven (7) or more children under eighteen (18) years of age are received for pay for group care, for fewer than twenty-four (24) hours per day without transfer of legal custody. A day care center of six (6) children or less may be considered to be a home occupation.
Density: The number of dwelling units developed, or to be developed, per gross acre of land, or the gross square footage of a building per acre of land.
Development: Any man-made change on improved or unimproved real estate including, but not limited to building or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling, operations, or permanent storage of material or equipment.
Developmentally Disabled Person: A person with a disability resulting in substantial functional limitations in such person's major life activities which disability is attributable to mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, or autism or is attributable to any other condition related to mental retardation because such condition results in impairment of general intellectual functioning or adaptive behavior similar to that of mental retarded persons.
Disposal Facility: Any facility or location where the final deposition of solid waste occurs and includes but is not limited to landfilling and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
District, Zoning: A geographical area or areas, designated with the use of symbols on the Official Zoning Map, wherein uses of land are restricted in type, size, heights and other limitations as established in these regulations.
Domesticated Animal: An animal that is accustomed to living in, with, or about the habitation of humans, including cats, dogs, rabbits and indoor birds and other indoor-related pets, but not including horses, ponies, donkeys and mules.
Dormitory: A building, the primary purpose of which is to provide living accommodations for individuals, but which does not include individual kitchen facilities.
Drive-in: A retail or service enterprise wherein service is provided to the customer within a motor vehicle on the outside of the principal building.
Drive-in Theater: A facility designed for the outdoor projection of motion pictures onto a permanent screen to be viewed from the patron's automobile.
Driveways Residential: An area set aside for parking of residential vehicles (beyond Right of Way) located either in front side or rear of residence, area shall accommodate no less than 4 vehicles for front and side application, and no less than 2 vehicles rear application, as applied in all residential districts. See Parking requirements for specifics
Dry Cleaners: An establishment engaged in providing laundry, dyeing and dry cleaning services on a large scale of institutions, businesses or other such establishments.
Dwelling: A building or portion thereof designed, arranged or used for permanent living, and/or sleeping quarters.
Dwelling Unit: A building, or portion thereof, designed, arranged and used for living quarters for one (1) or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit with cooking facilities, but not including units in hotels or other structures designed for transient residence.
Dwelling, Multi-Family: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by three (3) or more single housekeeping units with separate kitchen and bath facilities for each family or townhouses, and similar housing types but not including motels, hotels, lodging houses, hospitals, nursing homes, or public institutions such as prisons and mental institutions.
Dwelling, Single-Family: A building designed or arranged to be occupied by one (1) single housekeeping unit only.
Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex): A building designed or arranged to be occupied by two (2) single housekeeping units living independently of each other.
Easement: A non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Exterminator: An establishment or person engaged in the service of killing insects, mice, rats or other pests.
Family: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or guardianship, or a group of not more than five (5) unrelated persons, occupying a single dwelling unit and using the same cooking facilities; provided however, that domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a separate family or families.
Farm: An area of land principally devoted to agriculture.
Farm Supply Store: An establishment engaged in the retail sale of animal feeds, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides, seeds and other such farm supplies.
Fence: A structural barrier for enclosure, screening or demarcation, presenting a solid face or having openings amongst or between its constituent members; also, a wall separate from or extending from a building.
Finance, Insurance and Real Estate Establishments: Including but not limited to banks, savings and loan institutions and credit unions; security and commodity exchanges; insurance agents, brokers and service; real estate brokers, agents, managers and developers; trusts; holding and investment companies.
Flea Market: The use of land, structures or buildings for the sale of produce or new or used goods, usually of second quality or at cut-rate prices, in which more than two (2) vendors are accommodated in spaces on the same lot or within the same building.
Floor Area: The gross heated, finished horizontal area of the floor or floors of a dwelling unit, exclusive of basement, attic, carport or garage.
Funeral Home: A building or part thereof used for human funeral services, which may contain space and facilities for: embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation of the dead for burial; performance of autopsies; storage of caskets; and chapel services. Funeral homes cannot include a crematory.
Garage: An accessory building or portion of a principal building used only for the private storage of motor vehicles and other personal property as an accessory use.
Glare: A sensation of brightness within the visual field that causes annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
Governing Body: The Mayor and Town Council of the Town of Alto, duly elected by the citizens within the jurisdiction.
Grade: The average of the finished ground levels at the center of all walls of a building.
Greenhouse: A building designed or used for growing or propagating plants, with walls or roof usually designed to transmit light. Greenhouses shall not be construed to include commercial horticultural activities.
Guest House: A lodging unit for temporary guests in an accessory building. No such lodging unit shall contain independent cooking or kitchen facilities and shall not be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
Hazardous Waste: Any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the federal acts which are in force and effect on the date of adoption of this ordinance, codified as 40 C.F.R. ยง 261.3 and any designated hazardous waste. And/or by the State of GA, through an agency governing such waste or limits of waste.
Hazardous Waste Facility: Any property or facility that is intended or used for storage, treatment, or disposal of hazardous waste.
Height, Building: The vertical distance measured from the grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the declines of a mansard roof; or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
Heliport: An area, either at ground level or elevated on a structure, licensed or approved for the landing and take-off of helicopters, and including auxiliary facilities such as parking, waiting room, fueling and maintenance equipment.
Helistop: A heliport, but without auxiliary facilities such as parking, waiting room, fueling and maintenance equipment.
Home Occupation: Any occupation or profession engaged in by any occupant of a dwelling.
Hospital: An institution providing health services, for inpatients and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral part of the institution, such related facilities as laboratories, out-patients department, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
Hotel: A public commercial lodging facility intended for use as temporary residence which may make provisions for meals, entertainment and various personal services provided for compensation to persons traveling for business, tourism or other visitation purposes in which ingress and egress from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all times.
Household Pet: An animal which is customarily kept for company or pleasure within a home or yard which is not exhibited to the public, and raised for commercial purposes, (e.g., "show dogs"). Household pets include domestic canines, felines, tropical birds, fish, rabbits, rodents and other animals customarily sold in pet stores.
Impervious Surfaces: Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the infiltration of stormwater into previously undeveloped land, including but not limited to buildings, paved roads, parking lots and driveways, decks, swimming pools and patios, but not including graveled driveways and parking areas.
Inoperable Vehicle: Any motorized vehicle, other than those vehicles temporarily disabled, which is incapable of immediately being driven. Any motorized vehicle without a current vehicle registration tag shall be considered an inoperable vehicle.
Junk: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, whether or not stored, for sale, or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed, salvaged stored baled, disposed, or other use or disposition. Junk may include inoperable vehicles, tires, vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass, building materials, household appliances, machinery, brush, wood and lumber, and/or as defined by other ordinance.
Junk/Salvage Yard: Any property involving the abandonment, parking, storage or disassembly of junk, including inoperable vehicles or junked machinery, the abandonment, storage, sale, or resale of used auto parts, tires, scrap iron, household appliances, used brick, wood, or other building/structural materials, used paper, rags or other scrap materials, and/or as defined by other ordinance.
Kennel: The housing, breeding, boarding or training of four (4) or more dogs, cats, or other domestic animals, operated for the purpose of providing income or revenue, and/or as defined by other ordinance.
Laboratory: A place devoted to experimental study, such as testing and analyzing, but not including the manufacturing of product or products.
Land-Disturbing Activity: Any activity which may result in solid erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state water or onto lands of the state, including but not limited to clearing, dredging, grading, scraping, excavating, transporting, or filling of land; and any construction, rebuilding or alteration of a structure, but specifically excluding agricultural and gardening practices.
Landfill: An area wherein solid wastes are placed, under license, compacted and covered but specifically excluding hazardous or radioactive wastes, and/or as defined by other ordinance.
Landscape Strip: That portion of a given lot, not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, access and service areas, established as landscaped open space, the width of which is measured from a given property line. A landscape strip, as distinguished from a buffer, may be disturbed by grading or side development but is maintained as landscaped open space. A landscape strip may consist of grass lawns, decorative planting, berms, walls, fences or other features designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect within the outside of the development.
Landscaping: Changing, rearranging or adding to the original vegetation or scenery of a piece of land to produce an aesthetic effect appropriate for the use to which the land is put. It may include reshaping the land by moving the earth, as well as preserving the original vegetation.
Landscaping Service: An establishment engaged in performing a variety of lawn and landscaping services such as lawn fertilizing, mowing, spraying and planting, and the planting and maintenance of landscaping.
Laundromat: A business that provides home-type washing and drying machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
Library: A building in which literary musical, artistic or reference materials are kept for use but not generally for sale.
Loading and Unloading Space: A space, typically with dimensions of twelve (12) feet by sixty (60) feet, logically and conveniently located for pickups and/or deliveries or for loading and/or unloading, scaled to delivery vehicles to be used, and accessible to such vehicles.
Lodging House: A fraternity house, sorority house, dormitory, or other such building designed and occupied, with or without separate kitchen or housekeeping facilities for each unit.
Lot: A parcel of land having principal frontage on a public street; a developed or undeveloped tract of land in one ownership legally transferable as a single unit of land.
Lot Area: The total area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public street right-of-ways but inclusive of easements.
Lot, Corner: A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot Coverage: The part or percent of a lot occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings and structures, but not including unenclosed parking areas.
Lot Depth: The mean horizontal distance from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
Lot, Double Frontage: Any lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two (2) streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, Flag: A tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public street is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot.
Lot Frontage: The width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street.
Lot of Record: A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the records of the County Superior Court Clerk prior to the enactment of this Zoning Ordinance; a parcel of land, the deed of which has been recorded in the same office; or any lot which has been properly approved by the Governing Body as of the date of adoption of these regulations.
Lot Width: The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at the minimum required front yard (regulatory front building set back) line.
Mail Order Office: An establishment which engages in the taking of requests for mail order or telephone or facsimile machine for catalog merchandise but not including the storage or distribution of such merchandise. An establishment where orders are picked up or taken in person is not considered a mail order office.
Manufactured Home: A structure, built to conform to national standards embodied in the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5401, et seq. administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three-hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes mandatory plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. A manufactured home displays a certificate from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Manufactured Home Park: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been planned or improved for the placement of two or more manufactured homes for residential use, including land, buildings and facilities used by the occupants of manufactured homes on such property.
Manufactured Home Space: A parcel of land within a manufactured home park which is reserved or leased for the placement of an individual mobile home and accessory structure for the exclusive use of its occupants.
Manufactured Home Subdivision: Parcels of land planned or improved for the placement of manufactured homes on individual lots for residential use.
Manufacturing, Processing and Assembling: The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances into new products. The land uses engaged in these activities are usually described as plants, factories or mills and characteristically use power-driven machines and materials handling equipment. Establishments engaged in assembling component parts of manufactured products are also considered under this definition if the new product is neither a fixed structure nor other fixed improvement. Also included is the blending of materials such as lubricating oils, plastic resins or liquors.
Marquee: A permanent roof-like structure made of metal or other durable material affixed to the wall of a building.
Materials Recovery Facility: A solid waste handling facility that provides for the extraction from solid waste of recoverable materials, materials suitable for use as a fuel or soil amendment, or any combination of such materials.
Metes and Bounds: A system of describing and identifying land by distances or measures (metes) and bearings or direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference, such as a monument or other marker or the corner of intersection streets.
Mini-Warehouse: A building or group of buildings that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized stalls or lockers used for storage which may include accessory office and/or night watchman's residence, but not including retail sale on the premises, commercial repair or other services, manufacturing or any other commercial use; also known as self-service storage facilities.
Mobile Home: See the definition for "Manufactured Home", which is incorporated herein.
Mobile Home Park: See the definition for "Manufactured Home Park", which is incorporated herein.
Modular Structure: A factory fabricated transportable building consisting of units designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a permanent structure to be used for residential or commercial purposes and which bears a seal of compliance with regulations of either the International Building Code Congress International or the Georgia Industrialized Building Act.
Motel: A public commercial lodging facility intended for use as temporary residence, which may also include provision of meals, entertainment and various personal services, provided for compensation to persons traveling for business, tourism or other visitation purposes, distinguished from a hotel in that ingress and/or ingress to and from all rooms is made primarily from an exterior walkway rather than from an interior lobby.
Municipal Solid Waste: Any solid waste resulting from the operation of residential, commercial, governmental, or institutional establishments except such solid waste disposed of in a private industry solid waste disposal facility. The term includes yard trash but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural, or silvicultural operations.
Municipal Solid Waste Disposal Facility: Any facility or location where the final deposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including other waste allowed under Subtitle D of the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1876, as amended, and includes, but is not limited to, municipal solid waste landfills and solid waste thermal treatment technology facilities.
Museum: An establishment engaged in the procurement, care, study, and display of objects of historical, educational and cultural value and interest.
Non-Conforming Lot: A lot, the area, width, or other characteristic of which fails to meet requirements of the zoning district in which it is located and which was of record as of the date of adoption of these regulations. Any lot which was subsequently annexed into the Alto Town limits which does not meet the requirements of the particular zoning district shall also be considered a non-conforming lot.
Non-Conforming Structure: Any building or structure which does not conform to the regulations governing the bulk, location, height or size of buildings or structures permitted in the district.
Non-Conforming Use: Any building or use of land or building lawfully existing at the date of adoption of these regulations or as a result of subsequent amendments to these regulations, which does not conform to the permitted use provisions established herein for the district in which it is located.
Nuisance: Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property, endangers public health or safety, or is offensive to the senses; anything that causes hurt, inconvenience or damage to another, even though it may otherwise be lawful.
Nursing Home: A long-term care facility which admits patients by medical referral and provides for continuous medical supervision via 24 hour-a-day nursing care and related services in addition to food, shelter, and personal care. A nursing home may be licensed as a skilled nursing facility, an intermediate care facility, or an intermingled facility.
Off-street: Not located on a street as defined by this Article.
Office: A building or portion thereof wherein predominantly administrative, professional or clerical operations are performed, and not involving retail sales or other sales of any kind on the premises.
Official Zoning Map: The map, which accompanies the zoning ordinance text, that delineates the geographic location of the boundaries of zoning districts established in this ordinance in relation to natural features, man-made features and/or property uses.
Open Air Business: Any commercial establishment that displays products in a non-enclosed area.
Open Space, Landscaped: That portion or portions of a given lot, not covered by buildings, pavement, parking, access and service areas, set aside and maintained as a buffer, landscape strip or other approved open area.
Outdoor Display: The keeping of any goods, junk, material or merchandise outside of a business, building or establishment or in an area visible from a public street, for display, advertisement or purposes of attracting rental or sales. Such definition shall not be construed as to include the temporary loading or unloading of such goods, junk, material or merchandise to or from an enclosed area.
Outdoor Storage: The keeping of any goods, junk, material, merchandise, or commercial vehicles in the same outdoor place for more than twenty-four hours.
Parking Lot: Any public or private open area used for the express purpose of temporary parking of private motor vehicles. A parking lot may be the principal use of a given lot or any accessory use to the principal use on a given lot.
Parking Space: An area having an area of at least 160 square feet up to three hundred (300) square feet including maneuvering space within a parking lot, to be used exclusively as a temporary parking space for a motor vehicle.
Permitted Use: A use which is specifically authorized in a particular zoning district.
Person: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association or institution, including any trustee, assigns or other representative.
Personal Care: Protective care and watchful oversight of a resident who needs a watchful environment but who does not have an illness, injury, or disability which required chronic or convalescent care including medical and nursing services.
Personal Care Home: A building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided two or more beds and other facilities and services, including room, meals, and personal care, for non-family ambulatory adults.
Personal Care Home, Family: A personal care home for adults in a family-type residence, non-institutional in character, which offers care to two (2) through six (6) persons.
Personal Care Home, Group: A personal care home for adult persons in a residence or other type building(s), non-institutional in character, which offers care to seven (7) through fifteen (15) persons.
Photography Studio: An establishment engaged in photography for hire for the general public, including but not limited to portrait, passport, wedding and other special occasion photographs.
Planned Development District: An area of minimum contiguous size, as specified by this ordinance, to be planned, developed, operated, and maintained as a single entity, containing one or more structures with appurtenant common areas, and area set aside for green or open space.
Planning Commission: The Governing Body, in its discretion may serve as the Planning Commission, or the Alto Planning Commission as established by the Governing Body, in its discretion, as provided by this ordinance.
Pool Hall: An establishment containing one (1) or more billiard tables, operated for profit, and open to the general public.
Premises: A lot as otherwise used in this Ordinance.
Private Industry Solid Waste Disposal Facilities: A disposal facility which is operated exclusively by and for a private solid waste generator for the purposes of accepting solid waste generated exclusively by said private solid waste generator.
Public Use: Any building, structure or use owned and/or operated by the Federal Government, State of Georgia, Habersham County or other county, the Town of Alto or other municipality, or any authority, agency, board or commission of the above governments, which is necessary to serve a public purpose, such as but not limited to the following: government administrative buildings, police and fire stations, public health facilities and hospitals, public works camps, parks and community centers, public roads and streets, airports, water and sanitary sewerage storage, intake, collection and treatment and pumping facilities, public housing facilities, jails and correctional centers.
Recreational Vehicle: A vehicular type portable structure which can be towed, hauled or driven and is primarily designed as temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping, and travel uses.
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park: Any lot of land upon which two or more recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy on a temporary basis of recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters by campers, vacationers or travelers.
Recycling Collection Center: A principal or accessory use that serves as a neighborhood or regional drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources such as cans, bottles and newspapers, but specifically excluding processing of such resources.
Recycling Plant: A facility in which recoverable resources such as cans, bottles and newspapers are recycled, reprocessed and treated to return such products to a condition in which they may again be used in packaging or for production.
Rehabilitation: The process of returning a property to a state of utility, through repair of alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions of the property which are significant to its historic, architectural and cultural values.
Rehabilitation Center: Facilities authorized or licensed by appropriate agencies for the primary purpose of rehabilitation of: offenders against the law; persons with drug or alcohol abuse problems; mentally handicapped; and physically handicapped.
Residence for Caretaker or Night Watchman: An accessory residence, located inside or in addition to the principal structure or use of a parcel of land, designed or occupied by security personnel for security reasons only.
Residential District: Any R-I, R-II, R-III, R-IV, or MHP Zoning District as indicated on the Official Zoning Map.
Restaurant: Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or service of food, refreshment or beverages.
Restaurant, Drive-in: Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or service of food, refreshment or beverage to person(s) in automobiles, including those establishments where customers may eat or drink on the premises.
Retail Sales: Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods.
Retail Trade Establishment, Enclosed: Any business offering goods and products for sale to the public, which operates entirely within a structure containing a roof and walls on all sides, except for outdoor display or other use during business hours and accessory storage in enclosed, subordinate buildings. Incidental repair is also included. The following are considered enclosed retail trade establishments (list is not all inclusive); convenience stores including the sale of gasoline; paint, glass and wallpaper stores; grocery and miscellaneous food stores including retail bakeries; apparel, shoe and accessory clothing stores; furniture, floor covering and home furnishing stores; household appliance stores; radio, television and computer stores; musical instrument stores; record, tape and compact disc stores; eating and drinking places not involving drive-in or drive-through facilities; drug stores and proprietary stores; liquor stores; used merchandise stores; sporting goods and bicycle shops; book, art and stationery stores; hobby, toy and game shops; jewelry, gift, novelty, souvenir and antique shops; camera and photographic supply stores, luggage and leather goods stores; sewing needlework and piece goods stores; catalog and mail order stores; florists, tobacco stores; optical goods stores; newsstands; automotive parts stores not involving repair; video rental and sales stores; watches and clocks; pawnshops, convenience stores with or without retail gasoline sales.
Retail Trade Establishment, Unenclosed: Any business offering goods and products for sale to the public, which does not operate entirely within a structure containing a roof and walls on all sides, and which all or a portion of the goods and products are displayed and/or stored, or business transacted, in the open-air or other shelter not completely enclosed. The following are considered unenclosed retail trade establishments (list is not all inclusive); lumber and building materials; retail nurseries and garden supply stores; mobile and manufactured home/modular building dealers; new and used car, truck, boat, recreational vehicle, camper, motorcycle, and other motorized vehicle sales and leasing; eating and drinking places including drive-in and drive-through facilities; fuel oil and liquefied petroleum dealers; agricultural implement and equipment sales and rental; Christmas tree sales; flea markets; monument sales establishments; automatic teller facilities; gas stations; produce stands; firewood sales.
Rezoning: An amendment to or a change in the Official Zoning Map, or as defined by general state law.
Right-of-Way: That area, distinguished from an easement, which is owned in fee-simple title by the governing body or other government, for which the present or future use of roads, streets, and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Rooming House: A building where, for compensation, lodging only is provided.
Sanitarium: A hospital used for treating chronic and usually long-term illness.
Satellite Dish Antenna: A round, parabolic antenna intended to receive signals from orbiting satellites and other sources.
School: A facility that provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary academic instruction. A school is considered public if operated by a unit of government.
School, Trade, Technical, Business: An establishment in which is offered for compensation, instruction in a trade, craft, technical field, or business skills.
Screening: A method of shielding, obscuring or buffering an use or building from another use or building by fencing, walls, berms, densely planted vegetation, natural vegetation or other means; a visual and acoustical barrier which is of such nature and density that provides year-round maximum opacity from the ground to a height of at least six (6) feet or that screens structures and activities from view from the normal level of a first-story window on an abutting lot. Screening methods include opaque fences, walls, hedges, berms and other features.
Septic Tank: An approved watertight tank designed or used to receive sewage from a building sewer and to affect separation and organic decomposition of sewage solids, and discharging sewage effluent to an absorption field or other management system.
Semi-Public Use: Any building, structure or use owned and/or operated by private utilities or private companies for a public purpose, or which is reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such utilities, such as but not limited to the following: underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water distribution or transmission lines or systems, electric power substations, wires, towers, cables, and poles, railroad facilities and bus and air terminals.
Service, Automotive: An establishment providing services and repairs to motor-driven vehicles, including but not limited to: rental care facilities; automobile parking lots; top and body, paint, automotive glass, transmission, and tire repair shops; car washes, including automated and full service facilities; oil change and lubrication.
Service Establishment, Business: A facility engaged in support functions to establishments operating for a profit on a fee or contract basis, including but not limited to: advertising agencies; photocopying, blueprinting and duplication services; mailing agencies, commercial art and graphic design; disinfecting, exterminating and pest control; personnel supply services and employment agencies; computer and data processing services; detective, protective and security system services; accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services; publications and business consulting firms; food catering, interior decorating, and locksmiths.
Service Establishment, Personal: A facility engaged in the provision of services to persons and their apparel, including but not limited to: barber and beauty shops; coin-operated and full service laundries and dry cleaners; photographic studios; shoe repair and shoeshine parlors; dance studios, schools and halls; specialized instructional studios and schools; day care centers; massage parlors; travel agencies.
Service, Health: Health-care facilities as well as establishments providing support to the medical profession and patients, such as medical and dental laboratories, blood banks, oxygen and miscellaneous types of medical supplies and services; offices of doctors, dentists, and other medical practitioners.
Service Lodging: A facility which offers temporary shelter accommodations, or place for such shelter, open to the public for a fee, including but not limited to: hotels, motels and motor hotels; rooming and boarding houses; bed and breakfast inns; recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds.
Service, Miscellaneous: Those service establishments not otherwise specifically classified, including but not limited to: animal hospitals and veterinary clinics; funeral homes, mortuaries and mausoleums; construction contractors establishments not involving outside storage of vehicles or materials; palm reading and fortune telling; pet grooming, pet psychologists, dog obedience schools; taxidermists.
Service Station: Any building, structure or land used for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel oil, accessories, and motor vehicle servicing, except that major repairs, body repairs, and painting of motor vehicles shall not be considered motor vehicle servicing.
Setback: The minimum horizontal distance between a street, alley, or the property boundary lines of a lot and the front, rear, or side lines of a building located on that lot.
Shopping Center: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking on the property.
Sign: Any writing, pictorial presentation, illustration, or decoration, flag, banner or pennant or other device which is used to announce, direct attention to, identify, advertise or otherwise make anything known, and which is designed to be visible from any street or adjoining property, except for house numbers and address numbers and non-business letters on mailboxes. For the purposes of these regulations, any sign not visible from a street or adjoining property or any sign within a business, office, mall or totally enclosed area is exempted from these regulations, as are all approved traffic control signs and devices.
SEE INDIVIDUAL SIGN ORDINANCE
Sign, Animated: Reserved
Sign Area: Reserved
Sign, Bench: Reserved
Sign, Construction: Reserved
Sign, Directional: Reserved
Sign, Flashing: Reserved
Sign, Freestanding/Ground: Reserved
Sign Height: Reserved
Sign, Identification: Reserved
Sign, Internally Illuminated: Reserved
Sign, Mansard: Reserved
Sign Number: Reserved
Sign Ordinance: As found and or adopted by the Town of Alto to regulate the application of signs for uses as described by Ordinance.
Sign, Off-site: Reserved
Sign, On-Site: Reserved
Sign, Political: Reserved
Sign, Portable: Reserved
Sign, Projecting: Reserved
Sign, Real Estate: Reserved
Sign, Roof: Reserved
Sign, Sandwich: Reserved
Sign, Special Event: Reserved
Sign Structure: Reserved
Sign, Wall: Reserved
Sign, Window: Reserved
Site Plan: A graphic illustration, two dimensional, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a lot or tract and the location of all buildings, structures, uses and principal site development features proposed for a specific lot and tract of land.
Slaughterhouse: An establishment where animals are killed, butchered, prepared for further processing, or processing in a final form.
Solid Waste: Discarded putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except water carried body waste and recovered materials, and shall include garbage; rubbish, such as paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture and appliances, metal, tin cans, glass, concrete, or dunnage; ashes; street refuse; dead animals; sewage sludges; animal manure; industrial waste, such as waste materials generated in industrial operation; residue from solid waste thermal treatment technology; food processing waste; demolition waste; abandoned automobiles; dredging waste; construction waste; and any other waste material in a solid, semi-solid, or liquid state not otherwise defined in this part.
Solid Waste Handling Facility: Any facility the primary purpose of which is the storage, collection, transportation, treatment, utilization, processing, or disposal, or any combination thereof, of solid waste.
Solid Waste Thermal Treatment Technology: Any solid waste handling facility the purpose of which is to reduce the amount of solid waste to be disposed of through a process of combustion, with or without the process of waste to energy.
Special Use: A use that would not be appropriate generally or without restriction in a Zoning District but which, if determined to be compatible with the goals of the district and permitted uses of district and if controlled as to number, area, location or relation to a neighborhood, would not be injurious to the public, health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted only in Zoning District where permitted if a Special Use Permit is granted by the Mayor and Council.
Story: That portion of a building comprised between a floor and the floor or roof next above.
Street: A public or private thoroughfare which is open to the general public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street, Arterial: Unless otherwise specified by the Comprehensive Plan, Transportation element of the Comprehensive Plan or any Major Thoroughfare Plan, arterial streets are those streets and highway facilities, including full and partial access controlled highways and major urban area entrance highways, which are designed to carry the highest traffic volumes and the longest trips through and within an urban area.
Street, Collector: Unless otherwise specified by the Comprehensive Plan, Transportation element of the Comprehensive Plan or any Major Thoroughfare Plan, collection streets are those streets that collect traffic from minor streets or other collector streets and channel it to the arterial system. Collector streets provide land access and traffic circulation within residential neighborhoods, commercial and industrial areas.
Street, Public: A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent or semi-permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something having more or less permanent location on the ground, not including utility poles, but specifically including tents, bleachers, gasoline pumps, recreational vehicles, travel trailers signs, and structures from which products are vended and similar objects.
Subdivision: The division of a parcel or tract of land into two (2) or more lots for the purposes of creation of lots for development, the rearrangement of existing lot lines, or for the purpose of transfer of ownership.
Taxi Cab Station: An establishment engaged in furnishing passenger transportation by automobile or van, not operating on regular schedules or between fixed terminals and containing space for taxi cab fleets and related office facilities.
Temporary Use: A use intended for a specified limited duration.
Town Engineer: The Engineer or Engineering Firm in the employ of the Town of Alto, or his authorized representative.
Townhouse: One (1) of a group of three (3) or more attached dwelling units under fee simple ownership.
Transitional Use: A permitted use, building or structure that by nature or level and scale of activity acts as a transition or buffer between two or more incompatible uses.
Transportation, Communication and Utility Facilities: Including but not limited to the following: bus passenger stations and terminals; airports, heliports and helistops; taxi cab and limousine services; radio and television studios and broadcasting towers; recycling collection centers; truck stops and truck terminals; trucking and courier services; marinas; railroad facilities; gas, electric, water supply services; emergency medical services; ultra-light flight parks.
Travel Trailer: A portable dwelling or lodging unit having no other foundation than wheels, distinguished from a mobile or manufactured home designed for short-term travel, recreational or vacation use, including pickup campers and motor homes.
Tree: Any self-supporting, woody perennial plant having a single trunk diameter of two (2) inches or more which normally grows at maturity to an overall height of a minimum of fifteen (15) feet.
Truck Stop: An area principally devoted to the service, refueling temporary storage or parking of trucks, including accessory buildings, structure and uses such as restaurants.
Truck Terminal: An area where cargo is stored for routing or reshipment and where trucks load and unload cargo on a regular basis, or an area in which semi-trailers and/or trucks are parked and stored.
Underground Storage Tank: Any one or combination of tanks, including underground pipes connected thereto, which is used to contain an accumulation of regulated substances and the volume of which, including the volume of the underground pipes connected thereto, is ten (10) percent or more beneath the surface of the ground.
Unenclosed Area: Any area of a given lot or structure which is not covered with a roof and protected by opaque walls on each of the sides of said area or structure.
Use: Any purpose for which a building or structure or a tract of land may be designed, arranged intended, maintained, or occupied; or any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or structure or on a tract of land.
Utility: Public or private water and sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, cable television lines, roads, driveways, river/lake access facilities, stormwater facilities, railroads, airports and bus terminals and other utility systems.
Variance: A minimal relaxation of modification of the strict terms of the density, height, area, placement, setback, yard, buffer, landscape strip, parking and loading regulations as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape or topographic condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit or would result in an opportunity for improved zoning and planning that would benefit the community.
Warehouse: A building or group of buildings for the storage of goods or wares, with controlled access to contents.
Wholesale Distribution: An establishment engaged in selling merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business users or to other wholesalers.
Wrecked Motor Vehicle Compound: An area used to store disable motor vehicles until such time as their disposition (either by junk, salvage or repair) has been determined by the insurance company, the owner of the vehicle, or his legal representative.
Yard: A space on the same lot with a principal building, which is open, unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted. A yard may contain a parking and/or loading area unless otherwise specified by these regulations.
Yard, Front: A space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street right-of-way and the front line of the building projects to the side lines of the lot. In the case of a corner lot, both spaces with street frontage shall be considered front yards. In the case of double frontage lots, the spaces as defined above shall both be considered front yards.
Yard, Side: A space on the same lot with a principal building, situated between the building and the side lot line and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Yard Sale: The temporary sale of home furniture, appliances, clothing and/or domestic items owned by an occupant of a residential dwelling and taking place on the premises on which such occupant resides, whether in the yard or in a carport or garage, usually as a result of the occupant moving/relocating to another place of residence. Yard sales which do not take place on the premise on which such occupant resides are considered open-air businesses.
Zero Lot Line: The location of such a building on a lot in such a manner that one or more building sides have no side building set back and rest directly on a side lot line.
Zoning: A legislative procedure in which the community is divided into districts or zones within which permitted uses, and in some cases conditional uses, are established as well as regulations governing lot size, bulk, height and other development requirements.
Zoning Administrator: The Governing Body of Alto, or its authorized representative; the Governing Body, by proper resolution, may designate the Mayor, or any other proper person, to act as the Zoning Administrator.
