ARTICLE X - R-III, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 1001. - Purpose and intent.
The R-III, Multiple-Family Residential District is intended to provide suitable land for a variety of dwelling types at medium to high densities (up to four units per acre) in areas served by public water and sanitary sewer.
Section 1002. - Permitted uses.
1.
Any use permitted in the R-II, Moderate Density Residential District, as specified in Section 902 and subject to the same standards except as indicated in Article XXII.
2.
Apartments.
3.
Condominiums, with a minimum lot size of two (2) acres for any condominium development, and subject to the provisions of Section 1005.
Section 1003. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
As specified in Article XXII.
Section 1004. - Apartment development standards.
1.
Site plan review and approval by the Governing Body, and review and a recommendation by the Planning Commission, if established, shall be required.
2.
Apartment buildings shall be constructed with a separation of at least twenty (20) feet if one (1) or more buildings contain two (2) stories, and a separation of at least thirty (30) feet if one (1) or more buildings contain three (3) or more stories.
3.
No principal building shall be constructed less than forty (40) feet from any property line.
4.
Each apartment development shall have a minimum of twenty (20%) percent of the development's total land area as landscaped open space.
5.
Exterior lighting of the development shall be provided.
Section 1005. - Residential condominium development regulations.
All developments containing residential condominiums shall conform to the following requirements:
1.
Site plan review and approval by the Governing Body and the Planning Commission, if any, shall be required.
2.
Condominium developments shall meet all applicable state laws, including the Georgia Condominium Act.
3.
Proposed condominium bylaws shall be submitted with the application for site plan approval.
4.
Residential condominiums shall conform to the setbacks established for the zoning district in which it is located; provided, however, that the rear setback for all residential condominium buildings shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
5.
Maximum Density - Residential condominium developments shall not exceed the maximum density permitted within the particular zoning district.
6.
Parking - Off-street parking facilities shall be grouped in bays, either adjacent to streets or in the interior of blocks. No off-street parking space shall be more than one hundred (10) feet by the most direct pedestrian route from a door of the dwelling unit it is intended to serve.
7.
Exterior lighting for the development shall be provided.
Section 1006. - Uses permitted by special use permit (SUP).
The following uses may be permitted as a Special Use provided the applicant for such use is granted a Special Use Permit by the Mayor and Council after a public hearing:
(a)
Such other uses as the Town Council determines are consistent and compatible with the uses stated in Section 1002 of this ordinance and that are consistent and compatible with and promote the goals and purposes set forth in Section 1001 of this ordinance.
