Chapter 13 - TRAFFIC REGULATIONS

Sec. 13-101. - Uniform rules of the road; adoption by reference.
Pursuant to Chapter 6 of Title 40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, Code sections 40-6-372 through 40-6-376, the entirety of that chapter known as the Uniform Rules of the Road and the definitions contained in Code section 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the Town of Thunderbolt with like effect as if recited herein.
Sec. 13-102. - Penalties.
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine or probation or by imprisonment for not more than a combination of such penalties as allowed by state law.
Sec. 13-103. - Restricted and prohibited parking zones.
The mayor and council, by majority vote thereof, shall designate by formal resolution any and all areas to be marked by signs or other devices as zones in which stopping, standing, or parking shall be restricted or prohibited.
Sec. 13-104. - Signs.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to erect and maintain such signs or other devices as may be appropriate to mark those areas designated by the mayor and council as zones in which stopping, standing, or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. It shall be the further duty of the chief of police to remove any such signs or devices which may be erected in areas not so designated.
Sec. 13-105. - Reserved.
(Council, 8/14/1991)
Sec. 13-201. - No parking on selected town streets.
1.
On and after the passage of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the corporate limits of the Town of Thunderbolt to park on either side of Bannon Drive, and by doing the same creates a violation of this chapter.
A.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.00 or be imprisoned not to exceed 30 days, either or both, or any portion of either or both, in the discretion of the court.
B.
Reserved(Council, 5/12/1982)
2.
On and after the passage of this chapter, it shall be illegal for any person, firm, or corporation to park on any portion of the pavement on Byrd Avenue.
A.
Reserved.
B.
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this chapter shall upon conviction, before the municipal court of the Town of Thunderbolt, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.00 and/or 30 days in jail, either or both, or any portion thereof, in discretion of the court.
C.
All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (Council, 8/9/1984)
3.
Limited parking and no parking zone ordinance. The mayor and town council are authorized, in accordance with state law, to regulate parking and designate "No Parking Zones" within the Town of Thunderbolt limits. The chief of police shall recommend the areas to be designated either regulated or "No Parking," and upon approval by a majority, the area shall be marked accordingly. Violations of this chapter will be docketed in the municipal court with the penalties fixed by state law. (Council, 5/10/1989) There shall be no parking on the portions of the streets listed below:
(a)
Louis St. from Henry St. south to George St. on east side of Louis St., no parking on street only.
(b)
Leonard St. from Woodlawn Ave to Pierce Blvd. on both sides of Leonard St., no parking on street only.
(c)
Rowland Ave. from Shruptine Ave. to Whatley Ave. on both sides of the street, no parking on street or shoulder.
(d)
Shell Rd. between Whatley Ave. and Young Ave. on both sides of the street, no parking on street or shoulder.
(e)
Whatley Ave. from Gilreath Ave. north to Victory Dr. on the east side of Whatley Ave., no parking on street or shoulder.
(f)
Mechanics Ave. from Victory Dr. to the Thunderbolt Library on east side of Mechanics Ave., no parking on street only, 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(g)
Dogwood Ave. from Victory Dr. to Mechanics Ave. on both sides of the street, no parking on the street only.
(h)
Bannon Drive from Mechanics Ave. to Falligant Ave., no parking on the street.
(i)
Falligant Ave. from Whatley Ave. east on Falligant Ave. to River Dr. on both sides, no parking on the street only.
(j)
Bonaventure Rd. from Mechanics Ave. to Cemetery on both sides, no parking on street or shoulder.
(k)
Macceo Dr. north on Lakewood Dr. to Brightwater on both sides, no parking on street. (Council, 8/14/1991)
(l)
College Street from Owens to Lincoln Streets, no parking on the west side of from 6:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. (Council, 9/13/1995)
Sec. 13-301. - Maximum weights of vehicle traffic over the roads of the town.
1.
The town council shall prescribe maximum weights for all vehicular traffic using said town roads, and shall post signs giving notice to the general public.
2.
The maximum gross loaded weight for a two-axle vehicle shall be 40,000 pounds and the maximum gross loaded weight of three-axle vehicles shall be 56,000 pounds.
3.
The mayor and aldermen shall have the right to establish a lower maximum gross loaded weight in order to insure the public safety and prevent hazards created by excessive weights, and in this instance the town council shall have the authority to post a lower maximum load limit and such posted gross load limit shall have the same weight and force as if set forth herein.
4.
The town council shall have the authority to issue a permit to vehicles carrying a gross load weight in excess of that prescribed in this chapter upon a special application and upon the posting of an indemnity agreement providing for repair in case of destruction or damage to said roads occurring as result of said use.
5.
From the adoption of this chapter and after the posting of signs prescribed herein, any person, persons or legal entity violating said ordinance by driving, propelling or towing, or directing and permitting the driving, propelling or towing of vehicles shall, upon conviction in the Thunderbolt Municipal Court, be fined in the sum of not less than $50.00 nor in excess of $300.00, or shall be imprisoned for a term of not less than one day nor more than ten days, either or both, in the discretion of the court trying said defendant or defendants. (Council, 9/9/1987).
Sec. 13-302. - Limit the weight of vehicles on Whatley Avenue.
1.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven a semi-trailer, trailer, truck tractor or combination of vehicles on Whatley Avenue south of Gilreath Drive. "Semi-trailer," "trailer," "truck tractor" or "combination of vehicles" for purposes of this chapter shall have the same meanings as stated in O.C.G.A. ยง 32-6-24.
2.
There shall be erected at various intervals along Whatley Avenue south of Gilreath Drive, signs clearly indicating truck traffic is prohibited.
3.
Any person who drives or causes to be driven a vehicle in violation of subsection (a) above may be subject to a fine not in excess of $500.00 or incarcerated not in excess of ten days.
A.
Reserved. (Council, 4/13/1994).
Sec. 13-401. - Access roads.
The operator of a motor vehicle shall not travel from one street to an intersecting or parallel street other than at the intersection of such streets or on a connecting street, alley or way. The operator of a motor vehicle shall not travel from one street to an intersecting or parallel street by means of crossing upon the private property of another. All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (07/14/1993)
Sec. 13-402. - Restrictions on through traffic.
1.
Definitions:
A.
Residential street means an area with streets designed primarily for residential and accessory traffic that are primarily interior streets and specifically including all residential areas platted and regulated by the Town of Thunderbolt.
B.
Truck means any vehicle used for hauling or carrying a load where the overall length is over 30 feet and the vehicle has over 6 wheels and specifically including tractors pulling trailers whether loaded or unloaded and, notwithstanding the foregoing, "truck" shall include city busses and school busses and any vehicle which weighs more than the applicable State limit for travel on residential road systems.
2.
Prohibition on through trucks: It shall be unlawful for any truck to travel certain Town roads unless the vehicle trip originates or ends on such road or is made for the purpose of making a delivery to a site on such road. All such roads shall be posted with signs at each end of such road that state, "no through trucks." At the town council's direction signs may also be posted at the intersection of any such road with other roads. A list of the roads prohibiting "no through trucks" shall be maintained by the town administrator or his/her designee and may be changed from time to time by the mayor and council.
3.
Prohibition on travel on residential roads: No truck shall enter, travel or park on the street in a residential area in the town, except for the purpose of delivering goods to houses or points within such residential areas for short periods of time during daylight hours. If this paragraph contradicts in any way prior ordinances enacted by the town such prior ordinances shall prevail.
4.
Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per occurrence. Each day of activity shall be considered a separate occurrence.
( Ord. of 12-8-2021(3) )
