Chapter 15 - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein are the Subdivision Regulations of Thunderbolt, Georgia, as adopted by the mayor and aldermen (town council) on March 14, 2007. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same system of capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used.
Cross reference— Code of Ordinances (March 2004) Chapter 5, Article II, Building Ordinance, Plumbing Ordinance, Electrical Ordinance, and Fire Ordinance; Chapter 5, Article III, Flood Damage Prevention, Other Construction Regulations, Water Conservation, Stormwater Management, Tree Protection, and Wetlands Protection. Zoning ordinance adopted November 29, 1979 and amended on October 14, 1998, October 10, 2001, May 11, 2005 and January 11, 2006.
State Law reference— Approval by planning and zoning commission or governing authority on plat of subdivision required for filing or recording in superior court clerk's office, O.C.G.A. § 15-6-67(d); Georgia Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq.; Georgia Condominium Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-70 et seq.; local restrictions on condominiums, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-114.

ARTICLE II. - SHORT TITLE

Sec. 15-201. - Citing ordinance.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Regulations of Thunderbolt, Georgia."
ARTICLE III. - ENACTMENT CLAUSE

Sec. 15-301. - Authority; ordaining clause.
The council of the Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia, pursuant to the authority conferred by the provisions of 1957 Ga. Laws, Vol. 1, page 420 and the amendments thereto as codified in O.C.G.A. ch. 69-12, annotated, do ordain [and] enact into law the following articles and sections.
ARTICLE IV. - JURISDICTION

Sec. 15-401. - Area embraced.
The jurisdiction of this chapter shall be all that area within the corporate limits of the Town of Thunderbolt, Georgia.
ARTICLE V. - PURPOSES

Sec. 15-501. - Enumeration.
The various articles and sections of the ordinances are adopted for the following purposes, among others:
(a)
To help conserve and protect the natural, economic, and scenic resources of the Town of Thunderbolt.
(b)
To help prevent and reduce the traffic, congestion and traffic hazards which result from narrow or poorly aligned streets, and which result from excessive entrance and exit points along major traffic arteries.
(c)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when streets and lots are laid out without proper consideration being given to the drainage characteristics of the tract of land at the time the land is being subdivided into streets and lots.
(d)
To help prevent the spread of urban blight and slums.
(e)
To help insure that residential lots will be of such design, area, and width as will prevent health and sanitation problems from developing in those subdivisions with lots to be served by individual water supply and waste disposal systems.
(f)
To help insure that all building lots will be accessible to firefighting equipment, and other emergency and service vehicles.
(g)
To help protect the investments of the buyers of subdivision lots.
(h)
To help promote and protect the health, safety, prosperity, and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Thunderbolt, and for other purposes.
ARTICLE VI. - DEFINITION OF TERMS

Sec. 15-601. - Definitions.
Definitions are those incorporated in the adopted Code of Ordinances, March 2004 and for the purpose of this chapter, certain words or terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
(1)
Interpretation of words. Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
(2)
Person. The word "person" includes a firm, partnership, corporation, or co-partnership.
(3)
Shall. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(4)
Lot. A portion of subdivision intended as a unit for transfer or for development or both. The word "lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel."
(5)
Lot width. The distance between the side lot lines measured at building line.
(6)
Sewage, public. A system that is owned, maintained, and operated by the town, a community corporation or a privately owned system serving a community and approved by the Chatham County Health Department.
(7)
Street. A public way for vehicular traffic, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
(8)
Street, major arterials. Those streets which are designated as arterials on the major thoroughfare plan and which are used or intended primarily for fast or heavy traffic.
(9)
Street, minor. Those streets which are used primarily for access to abutting properties.
(10)
Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of immediate or future sale, legacy, or building development. All divisions of land involving a new street or a change in existing streets. The term includes the re-subdivision of land, and, when appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdivision or to the land subdivided.
(11)
Minor subdivision. Any subdivision comprising three lots or less and not involving a new street or change in an existing street.
(12)
Major subdivision. Any subdivision comprising four lots or more, or any subdivision involving a new street or change in an existing street.
(13)
Open space. An area that is valued for active and passive recreation and/or protection of the natural resources (including natural resources and wildlife) and which provides public benefit.
(14)
Water, public. A system that is owned, maintained, and operated by the town, a community corporation, or a privately owned system serving a community and approved by the Chatham County Health Department.
(15)
Street, opened. A street shall be deemed to be opened if it is either of the following:
(a)
Available for public use prior to the adoption of this chapter, or
(b)
Was constructed to town specifications following the adoption of this chapter.
(16)
Street, unopened. A street or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be unopened if it is not cleared, graded, and available for public use.
(17)
Easement, private. Created when subdivision of land results in three lots or less and access is needed to reach an open street.
(18)
Easement, public. Created when a subdivision of land results in four lots or more and access is needed to reach an open street.
ARTICLE VII. - DESIGN STANDARDS

Sec. 15-701. - Minimum design standards and improvements.
In order that various purposes of this chapter may be accomplished, all subdivisions hereinafter established shall be developed and improved in accordance with the minimum design standards set forth in this article. Provided, those parcels recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations which abut an unopened road shall not be developed until such road or portion thereof has been opened and paved according to town specifications.
Final approval shall not be given a subdivision until all appropriate design standards have either been installed or an appropriate bond, escrow account, certified check, or irrevocable letter of credit has been posted to secure the installation of such improvements.
Sec. 15-702. - Streets.
Except as hereinafter provided, all streets established in any subdivision shall comply with the following general provisions.
Sec. 15-702.01. - General provisions.
(a)
Continuation of existing street pattern. The arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall provide for the alignment with, or the continuation of, or the appropriate projection of existing principal streets in surrounding areas.
(b)
Street jogs. Street jogs, or centerline offsets in the horizontal alignment of streets across intersections of less than 150 feet shall be prohibited.
(c)
Intersections. The centerline of no more than two streets shall intersect at any one point. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and no streets shall intersect any other street at less than 60 degrees. Curbed streets shall have a minimum tangent of 100 feet at intersections.
(d)
Streets intersecting with major arterials and secondary arterials. New street entrances on roads designated or classified as arterials shall be not less than 500 feet apart. Provided, however, that the mayor and aldermen may reduce these requirements whenever they determine that such action will not be contrary to the purposes of this chapter.
(e)
Subdivisions on arterial streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the town council may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service lanes, or such other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
(f)
Minimum curb and street radius. The lot line radius at intersecting streets shall be not less than 20 feet.
(g)
Permanent dead-end streets. Dead-end streets, designed to be such permanently, shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of not less than 80 feet, and a right-of-way diameter of not less than 100 feet.
(h)
Temporary dead-end streets. Temporary dead-end streets shall be provided with a temporary turn-around area which shall meet the requirements of the town council for design, maintenance, and removal.
(i)
Half streets. Half streets shall not be permitted within a subdivision.
(j)
Interior streets. Interior streets within subdivisions shall be so laid out and designed that their use by through traffic and speeding traffic will be discouraged.
(k)
Street names. All streets within a subdivision hereafter established shall be named. No name shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with existing street names.
(l)
Additional right-of-way. A proposed subdivision that includes a platted street that does not conform to the minimum right-of-way requirements of this chapter shall provide for the dedication of additional right-of-way along either one or both sides of said street so that the minimum right-of-way required by this chapter can be established. If the proposed subdivision abuts only one side of said street, then a minimum of one-half of the required extra right-of-way shall be dedicated by such subdivision.
(m)
Street access to adjoining property. Whenever the town council finds that street access to adjoining property is needed, a street right-of-way shall be extended to the boundary of such property and such right-of-way shall be dedicated to the public as an unopened street. When such unopened street is required for access to property, then the developer of the property for which access is required shall be responsible for opening and improving the unopened street.
(n)
Street name markers and traffic control signs. Street name markers which shall be constructed to Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices specifications shall be installed at all street intersections.
(o)
Major thoroughfare plan. When the major thoroughfare plan of the community shows proposed arterial streets and collector streets within a proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall design the street system within such subdivision to conform with the location and arrangement of such arterial streets and collector streets.
(p)
Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all arterial and collector streets within all zoning districts with exception to R-1 and R-2. Sidewalks shall also be installed on one side of all marginal access streets within all zoning districts with exception to R-1 and R-2. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial or collector street, the town council may require sidewalks to be installed along these existing or proposed arterial or collector streets. The developer is required to install the sidewalks within two years of the subdivision plat being recorded or before a certificate of occupancy is issued on the structure, whichever comes first. Sidewalks shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 15-702.02. - Design and construction specifications for streets.
Except as hereinafter provided, all streets established in any subdivision shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the following specifications:
EXPAND
Type of Street
List of Specifications Major Artery Minor Street
Minimum right-of-way 80 ft. 60 ft.
Curb and gutter Curbs and gutters shall be required.
Pavement width 36 ft. 24 ft.
Percent sub-base compaction, modified proctor 95% 95%
Petro mat, Supex or other suitable material at intersections 100 ft. 50 ft.
Type of paving (minimum) Asphalt or concrete installed to town specifications.
Minimum street centerline elevation 7.5 ft. 7.5 ft.
Sidewalks
Single-family residential 4 ft./4 in. P.C.C. On one side per 601.01 (p)
Multifamily residential 6 ft./4 in. P.C.C. 6 ft./4 in. P.C.C.
Commercial 6 ft./4 in. P.C.C. 6 ft./4 in. P.C.C.
  P.C.C. = Portland cement concrete
(a)
All streets [shall] have a graded aggregate base course conforming to section 800 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications, and as section 800 may be modified or amended.
(b)
Installation of materials shall conform to section 310 of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications, and as section 310 may be modified or amended.
(c)
Minimum thickness of base material shall be 7.5 inches. Minimum thickness of surface asphalt shall be one and one-half inches.
Sec. 15-703. - Lots.
All lots which shall hereafter be established within a subdivision shall comply with the following design standards.
Sec. 15-703.01. - General provisions.
The following general requirements shall apply to all lots hereafter established within a subdivision:
(a)
Street access. Each lot shall abut on a street which shall be dedicated as a public street and which conforms to the design requirements of this chapter; provided the town council may approve a residential, commercial and/or industrial lot which does not abut a public street but which is served by a perpetual private access easement or a public access easement which meets the design and construction standards of this chapter.
(b)
Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be as nearly as practical at right angles to straight street lines and radial to curved street lines.
(c)
Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall be provided with sufficient width and depth to permit the establishment of front yard building setback lines as specified in Town of Thunderbolt Zoning Ordinance.
(d)
Minimum lot elevation. No lot shall be approved that does not contain a suitable building site of sufficient elevation to permit a finished floor elevation at least one foot above the level of the 100-year flood. The entire lot shall be properly drained.
(e)
Residential lots in floodplain. Residential subdivision lots shall be prohibited within floodplain areas where the cost of providing governmental services in the area would pose an unreasonable economic burden.
Sec. 15-703.02. - Lot width and lot area requirements.
Lots hereafter established within subdivisions shall conform to the lot area and lot width requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, Article XII, Development Standards for Dwellings.
Open space is defined to be an area usable by residents of the development and shall not include buffers, easements, or rights-of-way (r-o-w). Open space shall be calculated by deducting all easements, buffers and r-o-w to determine the developable area. Wetlands will not be included in meeting open space. The developer must submit a conceptual site plan to the building official and planning and zoning commission for approval of open space locations and landscape plans required by the town's tree ordinance prior to submittal of preliminary plan.
Sec. 15-703.03. - Building lines.
Building lines shall be provided on all lots hereafter established and shall conform to the requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, Article XII, Development Standards for Dwellings, 3, Setback from Property Lines in Feet, Height Restrictions in Feet.
Sec. 15-703.04. - Maintenance easement.
Where a drainage canal is such size that it requires mechanical means for cleaning, there shall be a 25-foot access easement on one side of such canal for access purposes.
Sec. 15-703.05. - Maintenance of open spaces.
Maintenance and ownership of required open spaces within a development shall be accomplished by either:
1)
Establishment of a homeowner's association or similar entity before final approval of the proposed development is given. Such entity shall have the power to compel contributions from the residents to cover costs associated with maintenance and upkeep of common area and any facilities thereon.
2)
Establishment of a contract relationship with the town by the developer to create a permanent open space easement. The developer can establish an escrow account for the town to provide maintenance and upkeep of common area and any facilities thereon.
The developer and town can determine through negotiations the size of the escrow account to be placed on deposit with the town.
Sec. 15-704. - Blocks.
All blocks established within a subdivision shall conform to the following design standards:
Sec. 15-704.01. - Block lengths.
In order that there may be convenient access between various parts of a subdivision and between the subdivision and surrounding areas and in order to help prevent traffic congestion and traffic hazards, the length of blocks hereafter established shall not exceed 1,800 feet.
Sec. 15-704.02. - Crosswalks.
Rights-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks shall be provided when in the opinion of the town council, crosswalks are necessary to give a direct pedestrian approach to schools, local shopping centers, and parks. Said rights-of-way shall be not less than ten feet in width.
Sec. 15-705. - Easements.
The following kinds of easements shall be required within subdivisions:
Sec. 15-705.01. - Utility easements.
Public utility easements shall be provided where necessary. Such easements shall be not less than 15 feet in width and shall be located in front of property; if possible, otherwise easements shall be centered on side and rear property lines. All utilities shall be run underground.
Sec. 15-705.02. - [Public and private access easements.]
(a).
Public access easements. Public access easement shall be provided where necessary. Such access easements shall not be less than 25 feet in width and shall have a non-encroachment setback for structures. The access easement can be used as part of common areas (except access easements for sanitary sewage lift stations) belonging to homeowners association or property owners association. If two or more publicly owned utilities are installed inside the access easement an additional ten feet of access easement shall be required for each additional utility. The town reserves the right to require additional access easement because of depth and size of utilities, when necessary, if publicly owned utilities are installed in the access easement and/or accessed through the easement. When utilities are installed inside the access easement an additional ten feet of access easement shall be required for each additional utility. The town reserves the right to require additional access easement because of depth and size of utilities, when necessary, if publicly owned utilities are installed in the access easement and/or accessed through the easement. The utility owner (water, sewer, storm, etc.) shall have an unlimited, unobstructed access 365 days [a year], 24 hours a day. When necessary the town will require that an all weather access road be constructed by the developer for access.
(b).
Private access easement. Private access easements shall be provided when necessary. Such easement shall serve no more than three lots and must have a minimum width of 20 feet. The driving surface of a permanent access easement serving three or fewer lots may be unpaved but shall be constructed to minimum specifications as approved by town engineer. The following notation shall be placed on the subdivision plat: "The private access easement is hereby dedicated perpetually for use by the owners and residents of all lots within this subdivision and will not be maintained by the Town of Thunderbolt."
Sec. 15-706. - Monuments.
The subdivider shall provide stone or concrete monuments four inches in diameter or square, 30 inches long, with a flat top, which shall be set at each street corner, and at all points where the street lines intersect the exterior boundaries of the subdivision, and at angle points and points of curvature in each street. The top of the monument shall contain a metal pin or be scored with an indented cross to properly identify the location. The subdivider shall also provide all interior lot corners of subdivisions with concrete monument, iron [with metal] pins.
Sec. 15-707. - Water supply and sanitary sewerage.
Water and sewerage facilities shall conform to the following requirements.
Sec. 15-707.01. - Public water and public sewers.
When feasible every portion of a subdivision shall be served by public water; when feasible, every portion of a subdivision shall be served by a [public] sanitary sewer system. All such systems shall be designed to preclude infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharges from the system into floodwaters.
Sec. 15-707.02. - Private water and private sewerage.
Where either public water or public sewers or both are not available to a subdivision and a subdivider shall decide to establish a private water supply system and a private sewer system, then the plans and specification for such private water system and sewer shall be approved by the Chatham County Health Department and the town council. Any such private systems shall be so located as to avoid impairment of them, or contamination from them, during times of flooding.
Sec. 15-707.03. - Publicly owned water and sewer systems.
Water and sewer systems must be constructed in accordance with Chatham County Health Department specifications; sewer systems must connect to an existing publicly owned treatment plant, where practical, and both water and sewer systems and trunk lines shall be conveyed to the Town of Thunderbolt for operation and maintenance.
Water mains in residential subdivisions shall be a minimum of eight-inch diameter and a minimum of eight-inch diameter in commercial/industrial subdivision. All utilities running under streets/sidewalks shall be sleeved. Cut-off valves will be located at all tees where lines are two inches or larger.
Fire hydrants shall be a maximum of 300 feet apart in subdivisions zoned for multi-family, commercial or industrial use and a maximum of 500 feet apart in subdivisions zoned for single-family use.
Additional requirements for water, sewer and utilities include:
Water.
1.
All water laterals provided in residential subdivisions shall be a minimum of one-inch diameter.
2.
All water laterals connections to the water main shall be connected by a tapping saddle. The material construction shall be doubled strapped stainless steel, epoxy coated, and C.C. thread.
3.
All fire hydrants shall be painted yellow. A different paint color must be approved by the water superintendent and/or fire chief.
4.
All three-inch or larger gate valves shall be resilient seat, epoxy coated.
5.
All two-inch valves shall be brass ball valves only I.P.T.X.I.P.T. with locking wing.
6.
All four-inch or larger gate valves that are installed on the transmission line(s) and/or tie into a major transmission line shall be installed in a manhole. All gate valves that are located at the entrance of a subdivision or other development that tie into a transmission line shall be installed in a manhole. All other gate valves can be installed in a cast iron valve box with a concrete collar and concrete valve marker posts.
7.
Fire hydrants shall have independent valves. Valves shall be in a cast iron valve box with a concrete collar.
8.
All concrete collars shall be installed after the finish grade and installed above the final grade.
9.
The top of the concrete collars shall be installed with a minimum of two inches above the finished grade. All installations shall have a concrete monument with W/Valve inscribed on two sides of the monument. The monument shall be installed no further than six inches away from the valve box.
10.
When feasible all water mains shall be looped into the nearest main of the same size or larger size as the line of origin.
11.
All connections to the town's water distribution system shall conform to the State of Georgia's Cross Connection and Back Flow Prevention Rules and Regulations.
12.
All water mains, water laterals, and fire hydrants shall have a #12 gauge solid copper wire installed with each utility. It shall be installed in such a matter that the wires are connected to each other and can be continuously traced. The water department shall conduct a tracing test to ensure compliance.
13.
All water mains in the subdivision shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter, unless a smaller size is approved by the water department. On culs-de-sac without fire hydrants, the minimum size is reduced to a four-inch diameter pipe.
14.
The water mains at the culs-de-sac shall be installed around the cul-de-sac. This will eliminate any water laterals being installed under the cul-de-sac.
15.
All fire hydrants, post hydrants and/or blow off shall require a #12 solid copper tracing wire to be installed from the existing wire on the main up to the bottom of the apparatus, just above the finished grade with the wire being wrapped around the apparatus several times. A continuous loop in the wire shall be maintained for tracing.
16.
All water laterals shall be installed a minimum of five feet from the property corner markers.
Sewer.
1.
All sanitary manholes shall be installed at a maximum center to center distance of 350 feet.
2.
When feasible the sewer lateral shall be connected to sanitary manholes. All laterals tying to a manhole shall enter at an angle of at least 90 degrees to the direction of flow. Other sewer laterals shall be tied into the sanitary sewer by means of a sanitation tee or wye connection.
3.
The minimum size of the gravity sanitary sewer shall be eight inches.
4.
The minimum size of the gravity sanitary lateral shall be four inches.
5.
Where grinder pumps are necessary to install for the sanitary sewer, the grinder pump shall be purchased from the Town of Thunderbolt. A minimum of five-foot easement shall be obtained for the Town of Thunderbolt for the maintenance of the grinder pump and sanitary low pressure lateral.
6.
The Town of Thunderbolt will maintain the operation of the grinder pump for normal wear and operation (as deemed by the manufacturer of the grinder pump).
7.
All grinder pump laterals shall have a two-inch ball valve installed at the low pressure main. The valve shall be installed in a cast iron valve box with a concrete collar.
8.
All sanitary sewer mains, laterals, including low pressure and high pressure force mains shall have a #12 solid copper wire installed with each utility. A tracing wire shall be installed up along each manhole connecting it to the cast iron manhole. All tracing wire shall be installed in such a way that the wires are connected to each other and can be continuously traced. The sewer department shall conduct a tracing test to ensure compliance.
9.
All sewer laterals shall be installed a minimum of 15 feet from the property corner markers.
Utilities.
1.
All publicly owned utilities shall be installed in the road rights-of-way or approved access easements as defined in section 600.
2.
Sanitary sewer, water mains, service laterals or other publicly owned utilities shall not be installed behind or between lots without the express approval of the Town of Thunderbolt. If allowed the utility will need to be in a proper easement.
3.
When lift stations are required, the lift stations shall not be located behind residential homes and/or commercial property without approval and an access easement as defined in sections 600 and 707.
4.
The lift station shall have an access easement from the paved road in the subdivision.
5.
The access easement to the lift station shall be a minimum width of 25 feet. The access easement shall have a road that is accessible during all weather conditions with a minimum width of 15 feet. The road construction shall be of graded aggregate with a minimum depth of eight inches. The road shall be constructed to engineering approval and/or specifications. The Town of Thunderbolt reserves the right to have the access road mucked to the depth of the graded aggregate, if necessary.
6.
The immediate entrance at the paved public roadway to the access easements shall have a concrete pad. The minimum width shall be 15 feet, minimum depth of 15 feet, minimum thickness of four inches, and 4,000 psi mixture of fiber reinforced concrete.
7.
All lift stations, shall have a turn-a-round drive provided, unless it is deemed not necessary by the water and sewer superintendent.
8.
All lift stations, with three HP or larger motors, shall have a true three phase power supply. No single phase, rotophase, capacitor banks, shall be permissible.
9.
All lift stations shall be constructed with submersible pumps only. The town and its engineers shall approve the pump size and manufacturer.
10.
All lift stations, shall have a fenced in area for security reasons. The minimum gate opening shall be 12-foot with a 180 degree gate swing. The construction of the fence can be either wood or cyclone. All fences shall be of privacy manner. Fence height shall be a minimum of eight feet with three strands of barb wire.
11.
The mounting panel for the controls, etc., shall be constructed out of three-inch galvanized post and galvanized support brackets.
12.
All force mains shall be installed in the access easements and/or road rights-of-way.
Sec. 15-707.04. - Publicly owned water supply and sanitary sewerage system.
Water supply and sanitary sewerage collection systems that are publicly owned shall be placed in the road rights-of-way and/or access easements (section 15-707). Where utilities are installed between residential homes and/or commercial property the access easements can be used for open space requirements. (Except: Access easements for sanitary sewerage lift station as defined in section 15-707.03, Utilities #5.)
Sec. 15-708. - Benchmarks.
At least two benchmarks shall be established within a subdivision. Such benchmarks shall be at opposite corners of the property being subdivided.
Sec. 15-709. - Preservation of noteworthy features.
In all subdivisions, efforts shall be made to preserve historic sites, scenic points, large trees and other desirable natural growths, watercourses and other water areas, and other features worthy of preservation, either as portions of public sites and open spaces, or in such other forms as to provide amenity to the neighborhood.
(1)
Large trees or other desirable natural growths located in public or private street rights-of-way or public or private easements shall not be removed unless such removal is necessary for the installation of utilities or drainage structures or for other purposes in the public interest. Refer to Town of Thunderbolt Tree Ordinance.
(2)
Such removal may be prohibited if the amenity of adjacent property or the amenity of the general neighborhood is adversely affected.
Sec. 15-710. - Drainage.
Changes in the topography, drainage, disposal of stormwater or other development design that appreciably increases, decrease or change the quality or quantity of surface or sub-surface water reaching adjacent or surrounding property is prohibited.
Sec. 15-710.01. - Stormwater management standards.
(a)
Each development shall incorporate stormwater management facilities sufficient to maintain pre-development peak discharge rates across adjacent property lines.
(b)
No development shall be undertaken that can be shown to increase the flood potential within the development, on adjacent or surrounding lands or on tidal or freshwater wetlands. If such potential is in question, the town's engineer shall make the final determination.
Sec. 15-710.02. - Planning and submission requirements.
(a)
Prior to submission of an application, the applicant and/or his engineer should meet with the town staff and the town's engineer to determine applicable methodology, existing known drainage conditions, and where existing known drainage problems exist, cooperative methods shall be sought to resolve deficiencies.
(b)
All applications for construction plan approval shall submit a map at appropriate scale of all site areas to be covered by impervious surfaces and calculations of said areas. Any change to impervious surfaces after approval by the director will require updated maps and the approval of the town's engineer.
(c)
Drainage plans shall be designed to reduce the rear lot drainage facilities by taking advantage of natural topography as much as possible. When rear lot drainage facilities cannot be avoided, they shall be designed to accommodate maintenance.
(d)
Minimum lot slopes grades shall be 0.3%.
(e)
Side lot drainage shall be piped; ditches on side lots lines are not permitted.
(f)
Swales are permitted on the side lot lines.
Sec. 15-710.03. - Construction standards.
(a)
Only reinforced concrete pipe class III shall be used in the town road right-of-way.
(b)
Only reinforced concrete pipe will be approved for drainage system which the town will be required to maintain. Where the town is not responsible for maintenance, the owner may select pipe material.
(c)
Such other pipe as is prior approved in writing by the town's engineer may be used in special circumstances.
(d)
Driveway pipes shall be a minimum of 15 inches diameter and shall be reinforced concrete pipe.
(e)
Pipes up to 36 inches shall have flared end section; pipes larger than 36 inches in diameter shall have winged headwalls or other prior approved end treatment.
(f)
Pipes of dissimilar size shall be vertically align with their energy grade line or shall have the crowns of the pipes set at matching elevations when dissimilar size pipes converge at a manhole or other structure.
(g)
All pipe joints in addition to the required rubber gasket shall be covered with approved geotextile material of sufficient width to be secured to the pipe and shall completely encircle the joint with a 50 percent overlap.
(h)
Pipes located on property lines shall have a minimum depth of cover to the finish grade of 36 inches. Where depth of cover cannot be maintained, the pipe shall be relocated in such a manner that the property owner will not be impaired in the construction of fences and other amenities normally located at such locations and sufficient easement provided for the relocated location of the pipe.
(i)
Pipe gradients shall provide self-cleaning velocities without scour. (2—9 fps)
(j)
Maximum length of pipe runs shall not exceed 300 feet. All drainage pipes shall begin and end in inlets, manholes, or end treatments.
Sec. 15-710.04. - Curb and ditch inlets.
All inlets shall be of the standard design. Curb inlets should be located at the end of corner curve radius.
Sec. 15-710.05. - Drainage swales.
Swales with a velocity greater that five feet per second shall be paved a minimum of two feet wide and six inches deep. Swales shall have a 5:1 side slopes or flatter; however, if a swale traverses a wooded site, use of a 3:1 side slope may be submitted for approval to reduce impact on trees. Drainage swales, prior to use, shall have sufficient vegetation to provide filtration and erosion stabilization. Drainage pipes or gutter flow shall not discharge into a swale.
Sec. 15-710.06. - Maintenance.
All privately maintained drainage systems and structures shall provide in their covenants for periodic maintenance. All ditch banks shall be constructed in a manner that the side slopes will not erode and can be maintained with riding grass cutting equipment. The type of soil encountered will be considered in selecting the proper slope. Side slopes flatter that 3:1 may be required if soil conditions warrant.
Sec. 15-710.07. - Stormwater management requirements.
(a)
Impervious site coverage. No commercial, industrial, office, hotel/motel, multifamily residential, institutional use, mobile home park, will be approved which contains more than 65 percent site coverage by impervious surfaces unless site specific soil types, percolation rates and seasonal high groundwater table conditions are adequate so as to permit a greater percent impervious coverage. Permanent on-site water surface areas will be considered as impervious material surfaces for this site coverage calculation.
The Soil Conservation Service (SCS) has identified different soil types into four groups (called Hydrologic Soil Groups) according to their run-off producing characteristics. Vegetation and slope are not a consideration. These groups will be used for design ratios in accordance with the following table:
EXPAND
Hydrologic Soil Groups Impervious/Pervious Ratio
A 80/20
B 70/30
C 65/35
D 50/50
  Applications for projects incorporating a 65/35 ratio of impervious to pervious surface coverage do not have to submit site specific soil data; but, may rely to the general soil survey from the SCS for Chatham Counties. Applications seeking greater that 65 percent impervious site coverage must include site specific certified soil data, annual high groundwater table levels, soil percolation rate and supporting calculations performed by a soil expert meeting the qualifications set forth below. Soil test results submitted shall be used to determine the allowable surface coverage ratio in accordance with the table set forth herein.
(b)
Soil expert qualification. To be qualified as an expert in soils, their classifications, their physical make-up and their hydrological properties, an individual must be a Georgia licensed geologist or a Georgia licensed soil scientist.
Sec. 15-710.08. - Drainage design standards, methodology and criteria.
(a)
On-site stormwater control. All applications for development will provide for on-site retention or detention (dry or wet) for the differential between pre-development and post-development computed peak runoff. The site shall be the total area of development, including non-contiguous lands if part of a non-contiguous planned unit development (PUD) application, and shall be owned in fee simple or have perpetual cross easements for drainage purpose.
(b)
Methodology. Two hydrological methods for computing surface runoff are hereby adopted: "The Rational Method" and "U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service (SCS) Technical Release No. 55 (TR-55), entitled Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds."
Alternative computer models may be utilized if such computer model have found wide spread acceptance and meets the approval of the town's engineer.
(c)
Drainage design criteria. The following design criteria shall be used for either methodology utilized for computation:
Design storm—The design storm for town shall be the ten-year frequency, 24-hour, antecedent condition II for all on-site roads, swales, drainage structures and ditches, etc. The design storm for all detention basins, retention basin, outfall structures and outfall pipe shall be the 50-year frequency, 24-hour storm event.
(d)
General requirements. An overall map of the drainage area with basin area, length, and slope information keyed to the drainage calculations.
The calculations shall clearly show how the time of concentrations was determined.
Pipe sizing calculations shall be checked for inlet and outlet control. Maximum headwater and tailwater conditions should be provided.
Flood plain elevations and zones for the FEMA 100-year storm shall be shown on the construction plans.
Where FEMA flood elevation have not been determined; the engineer shall provide such elevations based on his study and set the finish floor elevations one foot above the 100-year flood elevation or the peak elevation backwater of the 100-year storm event within the subdivision.
The use of wetlands for storage and purifying runoff is strongly encouraged. However, care must be taken not to overload their capacity, thereby harming the wetlands and transitional vegetation. Priority wetlands identified on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, National Wetlands Inventory Map, should not be injured by the construction of detention ponds in them or sufficiently near to deprive them of required runoff or to lower their normal water table elevations. Adjacent detention ponds that benefit retention of normal wetlands water table elevations are acceptable. If a retention or detention pond is going to be located near priority wetland, the applicant will provide data showing that impacts will not be detrimental to the wetland.
Where possible to increase the length of shoreline, thus offering more space for growth of littoral vegetation for filtering purposes.
Maximum basin side slopes shall be 3:1, except where soil conditions require flatter slopes.
Wet detention basin shall have a permanent pool depth of not less than four feet to reduce bottom vegetation growth.
Dry basin must be designed with access to allow for efficient maintenance of the basin bottom and side slopes.
Detention and retention ponds shall be designed to provide at least one foot of vertical detention storage volume for runoff above the proposed dry weather water level design elevation.
Major drainage canals shall not be used for storage.
Use of rectangular weir outlets will be allowed only where this weir will provide better outlet control needed for a given situation than that provided by a V-notched weir. V-shaped of V-notched weir outlets are recommended to achieve detention storage. Use of innovative outlet structures such as pipe-culvert combinations, perforated riser pipe, or special graduated opening outlet control boxes, is encouraged as ways of reproducing pre-development runoff conditions.
Design data for storage volume and detention outlet requirements shall be submitted and approved by the town's engineer.
Detention and retention ponds shall be designed for ten-year sediment load before the one-foot storage volume requirement is included.
The principal outlet must convey the design peak flow without emergency overflow.
Uses of concrete weirs or standpipes are preferred over undersize pipes. Restrictor plates are prohibited.
Where cleared site conditions exist around detention or retention areas, the bank shall be sloped to proposed dry weather water surface elevation and planted for stabilization purposes. Where slopes are not practical or desired, other methods of bank stabilization will be used and noted on plans submitted.
Dredging, clearing, deepening, widening, straightening, stabilizing or otherwise altering natural waterbodies or canals may be permitted by the town only when a positive benefit can be demonstrated. Such approval by the town does not obviate the need for state or federal agency approvals where applicable.
Sec. 15-710.09. - Direct stormwater discharge.
(a)
Tidal discharges. Where direct discharge are requested into tidal areas, the Department of Natural Resources and/or the Corp of Engineers and the town's engineer approval is required before a permit to construct is granted. Granting of a permit will be based upon unique site hardships and not hardships created by the proposed development plan, or financial consideration.
New drainage outfalls into marshlands, tidal waters, or protected wetlands shall be approved by the Corps of Engineers and/or Georgia Department of Natural Resources. Any modification to existing outfalls that have inverts below +5.3 MSL or any modification that results in the inverts being lower than mean high tide shall be approved by the various state and federal agencies having jurisdiction.
Tide control structures shall be installed where the invert elevation of the first structure is below mean high tide.
(b)
Discharges to natural water bodies. Where specific site require a permit to allow direct discharge into a natural water body, methods of diffusing and filtering the discharge and of reducing velocity may be required.
(c)
Placentia canal. Where specific site require a permit to allow direct discharge into the Placentia Canal, review and approval by the Chatham County Engineer will be required in addition to the director and/or the town's engineer.
(d)
Final landscape design and planting shall not work against the stormwater runoff controls and drainage concepts approved as part of the construction plan approval process.
(e)
Rip rap. Where discharge velocities exceed five feet per second (fps), rip rap shall be provided in accordance with the table herein. Where this is not desirable, energy dissipation devices of concrete may be used instead.
Graded Rip Rap Stone Table
EXPAND
Flow Velocity
(ft./sec.) N.S.A. No. 1 Size Inches (Sq. Opening) Particle 2 Min. Weight (lbs.)
Max. Avg.
2.5 R-1 12 ¾ No. 8 —
4.5 R-2 3 12 1 —
6.5 R-3 6 3 2 20
9.0 R-4 12 6 3 60
11.5 R-5 18 9 5 150
13.0 R-6 24 12 7 300
14.5 R-7 30 15 12 700
— R-8 48 24 15 1500
  1 National Stone Association.
2 At least 50 percent of all the individual stone particles must weigh at least the listed amount.
Sec. 15-710.10. - Drainage easements.
The town shall require as a condition for obtaining approval of runoff control and drainage plans that the applicant record plats and covenants where available ensuring that drainage easements and facilities are assigned to a specific entity. If the choice of the developer is assignment to town, then issuance of preliminary plat approval may be considered as conditional acceptance of dedication, provided that construction is in accordance with approved plans and conforms to all town and state standards.
Upon receipt of clear, final town approval, the developer shall, within 30 days, submit to town council a request for permanent dedication of drainage improvements for town maintenance. The town's engineer shall certify that all as-built improvements so offered are in conformance with approved plans and with all prevailing town standards. However, authority to accept such improvements for permanent maintenance rest solely with the town council upon recommendation of the town's engineer.
Should drainage facilities and easements be deeded to a homeowners' or landowners' association the general maintenance requirements necessary to insure the long-term functions of stormwater runoff controls, easements and drainage facilities shall be described in the documents establishing the association. The documents will also state that the town or a legal entity having authority over such drainage may perform or require the homeowners' or landowners' association to take action under the following conditions:
1)
If normal maintenance is not performed that is adversely affecting drainage flow.
2)
To alleviate flooding or other emergency drainage problems upstream or downstream of the easement.
Sec. 15-710.11. - Underground storm sewer easements.
Adequate access for maintenance and improvements of the drainage facility will be required. Generally, for underground storm drain pipes the minimum width of the easement shall not be less than 30 feet. Additional width may be required based on drainage requirements. Sufficient width as determined by the town's engineer will be provided within the easement on one side of the pipe to allow for service equipment mobility and storage of removed fill.
Sec. 15-710.12. - Open channel right-of-ways.
Open channel right-of-ways shall be sized in the table below. The open channel shall be located in the easement to provide an adequate maintenance area on each side of the open channel.
Drainage Right-of-Way Sizing Table
EXPAND
Maximum Top Width of Open Channel (feet) Required Minimum Drainage ROW (feet)
5—10 30
9—15 35
16—20 40
21—25 45
>25 as approved by town's engineer
  All storm drainage right-of-ways shall be reviewed by the town's engineer and upon approval recorded in the town courthouse and two copies submitted to the director.
Sec. 15-710.13. - Water surface elevations.
No development will be permitted to construct, establish, maintain or alter the surface water elevation of any waterbody or wetland in such a way as to adversely affect the natural drainage from any upstream or downstream areas of the drainage basin on a permanent basis.
The town's engineer shall review and approve any water surface elevation proposed for lagoons or waterbodies. The developer will submit sufficient groundwater and topographic elevation data around the proposed waterbody site to assist in establishing the water surface elevation and area of coverage.
It may be required as a condition of drainage plan approval that adjustments be made to existing or approved water surface elevations if upstream or downstream areas require such adjustments to provide required drainage flows.
Sec. 15-710.14. - Exemptions from site runoff and drainage planning.
The following activities shall be exempt from the requirements of site runoff control and drainage planning.
a)
Any maintenance, alteration, renewal, use or improvement to an existing drainage structure as approved by the town's engineer which does not create adverse environmental or water quality impacts and does not affect the velocity, volume or location of stormwater runoff discharge; and
b)
Work by agencies or property owners required to meet emergency flooding conditions. If possible, emergency work should be approved by the duly appointed officials in charge of emergency preparedness or emergency relief. Property owners performing emergency work will be responsible for any damage caused by their unauthorized actions. Property owners will restore the site of the emergency work to it approximate pre-emergency conditions within a period of 60 days following the end of the emergency.
Sec. 15-710.15. - Erosion and sediment control.
Erosion and sedimentation controls shall be required on all sites adjacent to waterbodies or drainage ways in which one-half contiguous acre or more of land surface is to be uncovered. The applicant shall show erosion and sediment control measures between the uncovered areas and adjacent waterbodies or drainage ways on plans submitted for approval. (See The State of Georgia "Manual for Erosion and Sedimentation Control" for details). The owner must apply for a land disturbing activity permit in accordance with the requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 and the Rules of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources as amended.
Sec. 15-710.16. - Lakes, ponds and waterways.
Artificial or natural waterways, lakes, or ponds for recreation shall not be accepted for maintenance by the town.
Waterways, lakes, ponds, detention or retention basins shall be maintained by either an established homeowners association or individual property owner(s). In either case, the subdivision plat must indicate who will be responsible for maintenance. Town will not accept maintenance of drainage basins.
Private maintenance provisions must be made to the satisfaction of the town's engineer. The developer is not allowed to be designated as the responsible provider of maintenance. Placing responsibility on the owner(s) of the property where the feature is located is allowed if suitable notes and easements are provided on the subdivision plat and other legal instruments.
ARTICLE VIII. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 15-801. - Administrative agency.
The town council and the town planning and zoning commission shall administer this chapter through the building official. It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to inspect site plans and to suggest changes which should be made in the proposed design of a subdivision to insure the approval of the plan. It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to inspect plans and to approve or disapprove such plans and forward to the town council with the recommendations.
It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to inspect final plats and the information submitted with such final plats, and to recommend approval of such final plats when the requirements of this chapter have been met and to recommend disapproval of such final plats when the requirements of this chapter have not been met.
When the planning and zoning commission acts on the final plat for recording it shall forward it to the town council for action.
Sec. 15-801.01. - Notices required.
The names and addresses of the owners of all properties abutting a tract or parcel of land for which a subdivision plat or land development plan or plat is required shall be submitted with such plat or plan.
The town clerk shall notify said abutting property owners of the date, time, and place of any public hearing at which a plan will be reviewed by the planning and zoning commission and/or the town council.
Sec. 15-802. - Site plan.
An application for approval of a plan shall be submitted pursuant to the procedure set forth in Article XV of the Zoning Ordinance for review and comment. When submitted, this conceptual site plan shall be provided on a surveyed plat prepared by a Georgia licensed surveyor or engineer, and show layout of lots, streets, roads, open spaces, landscape plans (large trees) as well as any other requirements and other features in relation to existing conditions as required in the Zoning Ordinance, Article XV.
The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information: (a) the boundary lines of the property being subdivided; (b) watercourses and marshes found on the tract of land to be subdivided and the limits of habitable area; (c) the location, name, and right-of-way width of any existing streets on the land to be subdivided, or on land adjacent to the tract of land being subdivided; (d) Any additional requirements for the plan as required in the construction or zoning ordinances of the town.
Sec. 15-803. - Initial procedure for plan.
An original and four prints of a plan, showing the proposed design of the subdivision, shall first be submitted to the staff and then the planning and zoning commission for approval.
Until the plan of a proposed subdivision has been approved by the planning and zoning commission and the town council, a developer shall not grade, scrape, or otherwise open or extend a street in the proposed subdivision, nor shall he in any manner cause construction to actually begin on a subdivision.
Sec. 15-803.01. - Plan requirements.
The plan shall be drawn at a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch. The plan shall contain the following information:
All projects shall comply with and be on the following datum:
Vertical datum shall be NGVD 1929 Vertical.
Note: FEMA flood elevations are on NGVD 1929 Vertical. Finish floor elevation and other elevation that are required to be above the 100-year flood elevation.
Horizontal datum shall be State Plain Coordinates NAD 83 based on US survey feet.
Sec. 15-803.01.1. - Existing features.
(a)
The bearings and distances of the boundary lines of the property to be subdivided.
(b)
The location of any streams, natural drainageways, and other waterways which exist on the property.
(c)
The distance and direction to public water lines and sanitary sewer lines.
(d)
The name, location, and right-of-way width of existing streets either on the property or on the land adjoining the property.
(e)
Existing contours of the property in solid lines and at one-foot intervals and based on mean sea level datum.
(f)
The name of subdivision or property owners adjoining the property.
(g)
The location of railroads, of public or private rights-of-way or easements, and of parks or other public spaces either on the property or adjoining the property.
(h)
The limits of the 100-year flood as shown on latest FEMA maps.
(i)
The location of open space areas and landscape plan, as required by the town's tree ordinance.
(j)
The square footage of each lot.
Sec. 15-803.01.2. - Proposed design features.
(a)
The location, purpose, and width of any proposed drainage or utility easements.
(b)
Lot lines and lot line dimensions, proposed lot numbers and block numbers.
(c)
The location and specifications for proposed streets and lanes, including right-of-way lines, proposed paving, proposed finished grades, proposed pavement width, if any, profiles and typical cross sections of such streets, and such other information as shall be required to show compliance with the design specifications established by this chapter for streets.
(d)
Proposed street names.
(e)
Proposed final contours in dashed line at one-foot intervals and based on mean sea level datum.
(f)
Proposed building lines.
(g)
Proposed crosswalks.
(h)
The location of proposed monuments.
(i)
The location of open space areas, landscape plan with features.
Sec. 15-803.01.3. - Other information.
(a)
Name of proposed subdivision, scale of the plat, north arrow, date, vertical and horizontal datums, size of the tract being subdivided, key map showing location of the proposed subdivision in the town.
(b)
Copies of any permit applications required by state or federal agencies must be attached at time of submittal of preliminary. Examples of applications are permit for wetland filling, extension of water and sewer lines, land disturbing activities (soil erosion and sedimentation) and curb cuts from DOT, DOT R-O-W encroachment, etc.
Failure to submit copies of state and federal permit applications with the preliminary plan submittal, when it was known or should have been known by the applicant or his agent, will cause the review process by the planning and zoning commission to stop, until such time as the proper submittals are received.
(c)
A statement from the subdivider shall be placed on the preliminary plan which shall describe the method by which storm sewers, sanitary sewers, and water facilities will be provided. If septic tanks or individual waste disposal systems are to be used in a subdivision, then percolation tests shall be made in accordance with the Chatham County Health Department requirements and the results of such test, together with a contour map showing the site of each test hole, shall accompany the preliminary plan.
(d)
Grading and drainage plans shall be submitted with each subdivision application. If the required drainage plans reveal that a request for subdivision approval would overload the capacity of the channel downstream or increase flood stages upstream, the subdivision approval permit shall be denied, unless equivalent flow and storage capacity is replaced and maintained by the owners within the drainage basin affected.
(e)
When the plan includes only a part of the tract on which the subdivider has an interest, the developer shall submit a tentative street plan for all of said tract.
(f)
All exhibits accompanying the plan shall be prepared by a Georgia registered engineer and shall exhibit the seal and signature of such engineer.
Sec. 15-803.02. - Filing of plan.
The plan shall be submitted to the town staff to process and review prior to the submittal of the plan to the planning and zoning commission. If the town staff determines the submitted plan does not contain all the required information, the town staff shall return the plan to the applicant to complete. the preliminary plan shall be resubmitted and approved by the town staff then forwarded to the planning and zoning commission not less than 30 days prior to the regular planning and zoning commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
Sec. 15-803.03. - Process.
Upon submittal of the plan, the town staff will review the plan for noticeable discrepancies and determine if there is a need for additional information. The plan is then forwarded to the Town of Thunderbolt engineer, or other town departments, and other agencies (Savannah Electric, Savannah Gas, etc.). Once the comments from the review have been submitted to the town staff, the plan shall be placed on the agenda of the next planning and zoning commission meeting. Until the applicant addresses all of the engineer's or staff comments and the plan is satisfactory, neither the planning and zoning commission or the town council will review the plan.
Sec. 15-803.04. - Action on plan.
If the planning and zoning commission finds that the proposed design of the subdivision shown on the plan complies with the design requirements of these regulations, it shall recommend approval of such plan to the town council.
If the planning and zoning commission finds that the proposed design of the subdivision shown on the plan does not comply with the design requirements of these regulations, then the planning and zoning commission shall either recommend disapproval of such plan or shall recommend approval of such plan on the condition that specified violations are corrected prior to the submittal of the final plan. When the planning and zoning commission recommends disapproval of a plan, it shall give the developer the reasons for such disapproval in writing.
Except where an extension of time is authorized by the applicant for plan review, the planning and zoning commission shall have 60 days from the date of the submission of a complete plan to act on such plan. Unless action is taken on an application for plan review within the 60-day period, a written recommendation of approval shall be issued by the planning and zoning commission on the demand of the applicant. The town council, upon receipt of a recommendation from the planning and zoning commission, within 60 days of planning and zoning commission action shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall notify in writing all abutting property owners and the developer of the subdivision of the time, date, and place of said hearing. The town council may either approve, disapprove, or require modifications to the subdivision plat.
Any substantial change or modification, which differs from the e plan or changes lot layout, of the plan required by the town council must be reviewed by the planning and zoning commission for consistency with other regulations. The review must occur by the next official meeting of the town council.
Sec. 15-803.05. - When plan approved, work may proceed.
When a developer receives approval of the plan showing the design of his proposed subdivision, he may proceed with the construction of the subdivision. Such construction shall conform with the design submitted to and approved by the town council.
Sec. 15-803.06. - The limit on approval.
The town council's approval of a plan shall be valid for one year. If work has not started on a subdivision which has been granted plan approval on or before the end of this one-year period, then the plan of such subdivision shall be resubmitted for approval; provided, however, that this time may be extended unless changes have occurred in this chapter, or in the character of the property surrounding the property of the proposed subdivision, which makes it necessary to revise the design of the proposed subdivision.
Sec. 15-803.07. - [Final design.]
Before a plat of a subdivision is recorded with the clerk of the superior court of Chatham County and the lots thereon offered for sale, an original, and five prints of the final design of the subdivision shall be submitted to the town council for review. The final plat shall show all easements that are required.
Final design submission of the subdivision shall include operational and maintenance manuals, record drawings and certification letter.
Maintenance and operational system manuals:
The town shall require that three sets of maintenance manuals and operation manuals be supplied for all electrical and mechanical systems place as part of the work. Individual items that are submitted as shop drawings should not be included.
Record drawing:
A.
Record drawing of the approved construction plans in the following format shall be delivered to the town in the required coordinate system:
One set on reproducible Mylar,
Two sets on bond,
One complete set of digital record drawings on AUTOCAD drawing file and DXF on CD or DVD disk.
B.
One original letter signed by a professional engineer registered in the State of Georgia stating that the project has been constructed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications.
C.
Three copies of all warranties and bonds.
D.
Three copies of recorded plats showing all required ROW and/or easements for public and/or private streets, drainage, utilities, and/or facilities.
The record drawing shall contain information on drainage systems, pavement, sanitary sewer collection system, water distribution systems, water supply systems, wastewater treatment systems, SCADA, electrical standby generator systems and subdivision layout with all streets and lot lines and shall show the following:
Drainage:
1.
Structures with inverts of all pipes and elevation of all tops;
2.
Pipe diameter, material, length and slope;
3.
Location of all structures, headwalls, manholes, inlets and end treatments in relation to right-of-ways, property lines and other permanent structures;
4.
Locations of all ditches, swales, canals and drainage basins with widths, depths and slopes associated with each.
Pavement:
1.
Edge of pavement in relation to the center line of the road right-of-way;
2.
Pavement profiles;
3.
Installed thickness of base and material.
Sanitary sewer:
1.
Structures with inverts of all pipes and elevation of all frames and covers;
2.
Pipe diameter, material, length and slope;
3.
Location of manholes in relation to right-of-ways, property lines and other permanent structures;
4.
Lateral locations measured from the downstream manhole at the main and the property line if the lateral is not perpendicular to the main.
Water distribution:
1.
Location of the water mains, material, depth and diameters;
2.
Location of all valves, blow-off, fire hydrants, and sampling stations;
3.
Location of all service lines with measurements from two permanent structures with the depth to the end of the service at the property line.
Other:
1.
Location of all special construction requirements such as sheeting left in place, concrete cradles, concrete encasement, length of casing, diameter of casing and carrier pipe depicting the material and casing size and any directional drilling installation end points with transition coupling locations and sizes.
( Ord. of 12-9-2020 )
Sec. 15-804. - Final plat.
Until a final plat of a subdivision has been submitted to and reviewed by the planning and zoning commission and approved and signed by the mayor and clerk of the town, the clerk of the superior court of Chatham County shall not record the plat of such subdivision, nor shall the owner or agent of such subdivision be authorized to transfer or sell any of the land within such subdivision by reference to a plat. For large subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the planning and zoning commission.
Sec. 15-804.01. - Final plat requirements.
The original copy of the final plat shall be drawn on 18-inch by 24-inch sheets of Mylar with black ink at a scale of not less than 200 feet to the inch. Where necessary, the final plat may be several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. The final plat shall contain the following information:
(a)
Primary control points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
(b)
Tract boundary lines; right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other rights-of-way; property lines of all lots; and in all such cases with surveyed dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, arcs, and central angles of all curves shown.
(c)
Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way.
(d)
Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easement.
(e)
Number to identify each lot or site.
(f)
Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or reserved.
(g)
Minimum building setback line on all lots and other sites.
(h)
Location and identification of monuments.
(i)
Names of record owners of adjoining unplatted land.
(j)
Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by record name.
(k)
Certificate that all survey work was performed by a registered civil engineer or registered surveyor.
(l)
Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way, easements, and any sites for public use. Such dedications must be formally accepted by the town council of the town before such dedications shall be binding on the town.
(m)
Title, scale, north arrow, and date.
(n)
Key map showing the location of the subdivision in the town.
(o)
All plats shall show the expected limits of the 100-year flood where appropriate.
(p)
Approved record drawings.
(q)
Location and identification of any wetlands.
Sec. 15-804.02. - Certification from county health department.
If lots are not to be served by either public sewers or public water, or both, then the final plat shall be accompanied by a certificate from the county health department certifying health department approval of the water supply system and/or waste disposal system to be used and health department approval of lot sizes and lot widths established in such subdivision.
Sec. 15-804.03. - Certificate from engineer.
At the time the final plat is submitted, it shall be accompanied by a certificate from the developer's engineer certifying that the subdivider has complied with the following conditions:
(a)
All infrastructure improvements and landscape requirements have been installed in accord with the requirements of this chapter and in accord with the design approved by the town council on the preliminary plan; and/or
(b)
A bond, escrow account, certified check, or irrevocable letter of credit from a bank which has a business office within the State of Georgia, in the amount of 150 percent of the required infrastructure improvements and maintenance and landscape requirements, which is acceptable to the Town and such bond, escrow account, or certified check, or irrevocable letter of credit has been posted and is available to the town, and in sufficient amount to ensure the completion of all required improvements, as well as to ensure the maintenance thereof for a period of not less than 90 days after completion.
If a bond is offered, it shall be executed by a surety or guaranty company qualified to transact business in the State of Georgia and acceptable to the town. In no event shall the depositor of the irrevocable letter of credit or bond have any significant interest in the bank upon which such irrevocable letter of credit has been authorized or in the surety or guaranty company issuing the bond. Significant interest of the depositor means acting as an officer or director or owning more than one percent of the stock of such bank, surety or guaranty company.
The town council may reduce the bond, escrow account, or irrevocable letter of credit by as much as one-half upon completion of construction. If no faults or failures develop, the remaining bond, escrow account, or irrevocable letter of credit may be reduced by an additional 50 percent at the end of six months. At the end of the second six months, the developer shall request an inspection, and if no faults or failures have developed, the town council shall release the bond escrow, or irrevocable letter of credit. Such bond, escrow, or irrevocable letter of credit shall remain in force until released by the town council after due inspection of said improvements and shall not automatically expire, or if a letter of credit containing an expiration date, shall be replaced with a letter of credit acceptable to the town at least ten days prior to its expiration.
Sec. 15-804.04. - Filing the final plat.
The final plat shall be filed with the planning and zoning commission not less than 20 days prior to a regular meeting of the planning and zoning commission.
Sec. 15-804.05. - Action on final plat.
(a)
When the final plat has been approved, the planning and zoning commission shall present the final plat to the clerk of the superior court of Chatham County to be recorded. The town staff shall provide the subdivider with the subdivision map book number and page number in which the subdivision has been recorded by the clerk of the superior court. The cost of such recording shall be paid by the subdivider and shall be deposited with the town staff [prior] to such recording.
(b)
After the final plat of the subdivision has been recorded, then all lots shown on such subdivision may be made available for sale and such subdivision shall be entitled to all privileges and services available to other subdivisions within the town.
Sec. 15-804.06. - Revisions to recorded plat.
The subdivider shall file with the planning and zoning commission copies of the proposed revisions to a recorded plat together with all supporting information as required by these regulations.
Proposed revisions to a recorded plat which alter or change in any way the street and/or utility layout of said plat shall be submitted as a plan in accordance with section 702 of these regulations. Proposed revisions to a recorded plat which do not alter or change in any way the street and/or utility layout of said plat shall be submitted as a final plat.
Sec. 15-805. - Minor subdivision.
Minor subdivisions shall comply with the requirements of these regulations, including minimum finished floor elevation requirements, with the following exceptions:
(a)
Minor subdivisions shall be processed as a major subdivision if requested by the planning and zoning commission, other review agency, or the developer.
(b)
Topographic information shall not be required, unless specifically requested by town.
(c)
Percolation information shall not be required, unless requested by the health department.
(d)
Only one benchmark shall be required. An existing accessible benchmark within 200 feet of petitioner's property, if shown on the plat, shall satisfy this requirement.
(e)
The developer shall submit a drainage plan for approval, if requested by Town of Thunderbolt.
(f)
Provided that where a series of minor subdivisions are developed or proposed immediately adjacent to one another, the planning and zoning commission, or other review agency may require the developer to comply with the procedures for major subdivisions.
(g)
Minor subdivision submitted to the planning zoning commission shall be certified by a Georgia licensed engineer that the subdivision improvements were constructed in accordance with the approved plans.
Sec. 15-806. - Fee schedule.
Fees and charges for submission of subdivisions plans and plats including reviews shall be set by council as deemed necessary.
ARTICLE IX. - EXEMPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 15-901. - Exemptions.
The following types of subdivision shall not be defined as subdivisions and shall be exempted from the requirements of this chapter, pursuant to the provisions of the act authorizing the adoption of this chapter:
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the standards set forth in this chapter.
Sec. 15-902. - Final plat approval only.
In the case of a subdivision which shall have lots fronting only on existing, open, and public street and which does not require a new street, or requires no extension of water and sewer, the developer of such subdivision shall only be required to submit a final plat. The town council shall approve such final plat if they find that the subdivision described thereon complies with all of the applicable requirements of this chapter.
Sec. 15-903. - Variance.
When a peculiar shape or the topography of a tract of land, or other unusual condition, makes it impractical for a developer to comply with the literal interpretations of the design requirements of this chapter, the planning and zoning commission may recommend that such requirements be waived; provided, however, that in so doing, the intents and purposes of this chapter are not violated, and the recommended variance is approved by the town council of the Town of Thunderbolt.
Sec. 15-904. - Interpretation, purpose and conflict.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the provisions shall be considered as the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, morals and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of property or premises or upon the height of buildings, or require greater space than is imposed or required by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
ARTICLE X. - PENALTIES

Sec. 15-1001. - Violation a misdemeanor.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to such penalties as are provided by law for other misdemeanors.
Sec. 15-1002. - Other penalties.
Unless a subdivision hereafter established shall be designed, developed, and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, then:
(a)
The town shall not accept the dedication of any street within such subdivision, nor shall the town improve, maintain, grade, pave, or light any street within such subdivision unless such street or streets shall have received the status of public streets prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(b)
The town shall not assume any responsibility for drainage problems within such subdivision unless town owned and maintained drainage structures already exist in such subdivisions.
(c)
The town shall not issue a building permit within such subdivision.
(d)
No unit of local government shall be authorized to extend any publicly operated service or utility into such subdivision.
ARTICLE XI. - AMENDMENTS

Sec. 15-1101. - Amendment.
This chapter may be amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the planning and zoning commission for review and recommendation. The planning and zoning commission shall submit its report within 60 days after receiving an amendment proposal from the town council, otherwise said amendment proposal shall be deemed approved by the planning and zoning commission. Before enacting an amendment to these regulations, the town council shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be published at least 15 days prior to such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Chatham County.
ARTICLE XII. - VALIDITY

Sec. 15-1201. - Validity.
Should any article, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such action shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid, each article, clause and provision hereon being declared severable.
ARTICLE XIII. - CONFLICTING ORDINANCES

Sec. 15-1301. - Conflicting ordinances.
This is intended to be the Subdivision Ordinance for the Town of Thunderbolt for the entire incorporated area of Thunderbolt, Georgia.
