THE CODE OF THUNDERBOLT, GEORGIA
____________
Republished in 2017 by Order of the Mayor and Council
____________
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete codification of the ordinances of Thunderbolt, Georgia of a general and permanent nature. The Code supersedes all such ordinances not included herein or recognized as continuing in force by reference thereto.
The source of each section is included in the history note which appears in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the Comparative Table appearing in the back of the volume, the reader can locate all laws and ordinances included herein.
The various sections within each chapter have been appropriately catchlined to facilitate usage. Appropriate footnotes which tie related sections of the Code together and which also refer to relevant state laws have been included.
Numbering System
The numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and municipal codes. Each section number consists of two component parts separated by a dash, the figure before the dash referring to the chapter number and the figure after the dash referring to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the first section of Chapter 1 is numbered 1-101 and the fifth section of Chapter 4 is 4-105. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and, at the same time, new sections, or even whole chapters, can be inserted in their proper places, simply by using the decimal system for amendments.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this Code is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing for the Code. With this looseleaf system, the Code will be kept-up-to-date periodically. Upon the final passage of amendatory ordinances, they will be properly edited and the page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to the holders of the Codes with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
The successful maintenance of this Code up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the volume. As revised sheets are received it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publishers that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Index
The index of the Code has been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of the headings being couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by city officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the index itself which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which he is interested.
February, 2017
MUNICIPAL CODE CORPORATION
Tallahassee, Florida
