Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i); enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Standards for single-family and two-family dwellings.
(a)
Foundation.
(1)
The structure shall be attached to a permanent foundation constructed in accordance with applicable buildings codes and/or state regulations, as applicable. The lot shall be graded so that water will flow away from the home and water will be routed so that no water flows into the or immediately adjacent to the home or stands against the home.
(2)
An on-site built home shall be built with a crawl space of at least 36 inches or upon a basement foundation. The crawl space must be enclosed with a foundation wall or curtain wall constructed of finished masonry at least four inches thick, penetrated by openings only for installed vents, access doors, foundation drains, and other required features for the proper function of appliances, or equipment installed within the dwelling or directly adjacent to the dwelling. Penetrations through the foundation walls shall not comprise the structural integrity of the wall assembly.
(3)
A manufactured or industrialized home shall be placed in such a manner that a crawl space of at least 36 inches shall separate the house from the ground beneath the home and the crawl space with be enclosed with a foundation or curtain wall constructed of finished masonry at least four inches thick, penetrated by openings for installed vents, access door or doors, foundation drains and other required features for proper function of appliances, equipment installed within the dwelling or directly adjacent to the dwelling. Penetrations through the foundation walls shall not comprise the structural integrity of the wall assemble. In addition, each manufactured or industrialized homes shall have tie-downs or other devices securing the stability of the home in accordance with the requirements of the installation of manufactured homes and mobile homes rules and regulations established and published by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.)
(b)
Driveways. Each individual unit will have a drive way of concrete at least four inches thick and at least 12 feet in width from the road to the garage of the home. The driveway must be have a slope at the structure so that water will flow away from the garage and not directly into the garage or against the structure. If there is more than one bay in the garage, the drive way shall widen so as to provide a solid concrete approach to each bay. The driveway must have a concrete turn-around space at least 12 feet wide and 20 feet deep so that a car parked in the drive can turn around and not have to have to back into the street. A home without a garage must have a driveway at least 12 feet wide and extending at least 40 feet from the edge of the street and each drive must contain a turn-around space as set out herein. There must be a concrete sidewalk of at least three feet in width extending from the driveway to the front door of the home. If the lot is developed as a two family structure, each occupancy shall have a separate driveway and sidewalk. Each drive shall have a pipe on or near the right of way under the drive so that water from the roadway or other drainages may go under the drive instead of over the driveway.
(c)
Landings. At each exterior door there must be a landing that is a minimum of 36 inches by 36 inches.
(d)
Exterior siding. Exterior siding materials shall consist of any combination of wood, brick, stucco or stone finish, shake shingle siding, custom log construction, or painted wood lap or fiber cement siding. Metal siding, corrugated metal, corrugated metal, vinyl-covered metal siding, and vinyl sidings are not permitted.
(e)
Roofs.
(1)
All roof surfaces shall have a minimum pitch of 4:12 (four inches of rise for every 12 inches of run), except that mansard and gambrel roofs must meet this requirement only for those surfaces that rise from the eaves.
(2)
All roof surfaces exposed to view shall be covered with asphalt or fiberglass shingles, wood shakes or shingles, standing seam metal, clay tiles, slate, baked on enamel galvanized tin, or similar materials.
(3)
Minimum roof overhang shall be 12 inches, excluding gutters, along all sides of the structure.
(f)
Minimum width. The minimum width of the entire structure shall be greater than 16 feet. Structure width shall be measured between all parallel walls, with the exception of extensions from the main structure for dormers, bay windows, entrance foyers and similar appurtenances, and extensions of no more than five feet for other architectural elements of the structure's design.
(g)
Compliance with codes. The dwelling shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable requirements of the various state minimum standard codes as set out in section 8-19, and any other provisions of the Code of the City of Colbert, Georgia.
(Ord. of 4-5-2021)
Secs. 8-2—8-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING CODE

Sec. 8-19. - State minimum standard codes.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference, as if set out at length herein, the latest editions of the state minimum standard codes enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B), as adopted and amended by the department of community affairs.
(1)
International Building Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 and 2015 Georgia amendments.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 and 2015 Georgia Amendments.
(3)
Fire Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 Georgia Amendments.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2012 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015 Georgia Amendments.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2012 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015 Georgia Amendments.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015 Georgia Amendments.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments 2011 and 2012.
(9)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2012 Edition, with 2014 Georgia Amendments.
(b)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the state minimum code shall control.
(c)
A copy of each of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section, as adopted by the state, is filed in the clerk's office and available for review by the public. The same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city.
Sec. 8-20. - Building, housing and plumbing inspection.
The building inspector of the county is hereby designated to have the responsibility for inspections within the city limits.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(20))
Sec. 8-21. - Swimming pool safety.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to have any pool of water designed for recreational purposes within the city that has a water surface within four feet of the surface of the ground above the surface, or at or below the surface of the ground unless said pool has a fence at least four feet in height, or some other barrier around said pool sufficient to keep children away from said pool. Any gate in said fence shall have a locking device designed to keep small children from opening said gate. This section shall not apply to any pool less than 37 inches in depth; residence will have 30 days to comply.
(b)
Any pool in existence before the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived which has any type of fence shall not be required to meet the standards set out herein. However, if at any time in the future a new fence is constructed around such pools, the new fencing shall meet these standards. Any existing pool with no fencing shall be required to install fencing within one year of the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived.
(c)
The maximum fine for violation of this section shall be $100.00 for the first conviction, $250.00 for the second conviction, and $1,000.00 for any additional conviction plus up to ten days in the county jail. Each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(Ord. of 5-8-1990; Ord. of 9-14-1998)
Secs. 8-22—8-45. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUILDING PERMITS

Sec. 8-46. - Commercial, business, residential and structural building permit.
All builders of commercial, business, residential and structural buildings will secure a building permit from the county before starting any construction of a building, regardless of cost.
(Ord. of 8-3-1964(3))
