Chapter 14 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1 et seq.; bonds, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 14-21. - Judges.
(a)
In all cases concerning the violation of traffic laws and the violation of the various criminal ordinances of the city, the judge of the probate court of the county may serve as judge of the municipal court as allowed by a contract as entered between the governing authorities of the city and of the county from time to time. If the judge of the probate court shall sit as judge of the municipal court, the compensation of the judge of the probate court, above the normal salary set by various state laws and county ordinances for the probate judge, shall be determined by the terms of the contract set out in this subsection.
(b)
The city council may appoint a judge of the municipal court other than the judge of the probate court. Any such judge shall be at least 21 years of age, and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. This judge may hear any matter of the violation of various ordinances of the city that are not of a criminal nature, and may also hear any matters properly before municipal court which the probate judge is not able to hear due to a conflict or other reason, and may hear any matter, civil or criminal, properly before the municipal court if either there is no contract in force between the governing authorities of the city and county, or such contract is found to be void or otherwise not in effect. The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed by a majority vote of the city council and may be removed by a majority vote of the city council. The judge of the municipal court shall be paid at the rate to be determined by the city council at the time of appointment or at such other rate as the city council shall decide from time to time, provided that the salary of such judge shall not be lowered at any time while he is in office.
(c)
The city council shall have the authority to appoint an associate judge, who shall meet all qualifications of the judge, to hear any case in which the judge may have a conflict and/or not be able to hear any matter before the court. Compensation for such associate judge shall be the same as for the judge of the municipal court.
(d)
The judge of the municipal court, and any associate judges of the municipal court must attend any continuing legal and judicial education as required by law or rules of various state agencies. The city may pay the cost of such continuing education, prorate the cost with any other municipality the judge might also serve in a judicial capacity, or require such judge to pay the cost of his continuing judicial education.
(e)
The judge of the municipal court, or the associate judges, shall have the authority to enforce obedience to the orders of the court, the judgments of the court, and the sentences of the court to the extent allowed by the city Charter and the laws of the state. The judge of the municipal court, with the approval of the mayor and council, may appoint a bailiff to serve complaints, summons, and subpoenas of the court. The mayor and council shall set the compensation of such bailiff.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § I)
Sec. 14-22. - City attorney.
The city attorney may represent the city in all matters before the municipal court or before the probate court acting on behalf of the city.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § II)
Sec. 14-23. - Clerk.
(a)
The city clerk shall also serve as clerk of the municipal court, except that in all matters handled by the county, the staff of the probate judge shall be responsible for keeping all records, both as to adjudication and as to fines and fees collected and disbursed.
(b)
The clerk of the municipal court shall issue such summons and subpoenas as may be requested by either party to a matter before the court and shall keep records of any such summons and subpoenas issued. The clerk, or any attorney appearing before said court, in their capacity as an officer of the court, may issue oaths of any witnesses.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § III)
Sec. 14-24. - Pleadings.
(a)
All matters of a criminal, quasi-criminal, or traffic violation nature shall be brought before either the probate judge or the municipal court on a uniform traffic citation as established by the laws of the state and the rules and regulations of the various agencies of the state. Matters before the court of a civil nature shall be presented in such a way as all parties have reasonable notice of the issues before the court and no matter shall be dismissed simply for failure to follow some particular form or another.
(b)
Generally, no person shall be required to answer any charge or complaint in the municipal court without at least 30 days' notice of the charges or complaint against him. However, upon petition of the city attorney, or of any citizen or party, that the matter being brought before the court presents an immediate danger to the safety of the citizens of the city, or any person, the court may consider a motion for a temporary hearing to be held with less notice, including immediately upon delivery of a summons, if necessary in the eyes of the judge, provided, however, that when any relief is granted on such an emergency motion, a full hearing shall be held as soon as possible after the expiration of 30 days from the date of service.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § IV)
Sec. 14-25. - Rules.
Any rules adopted by the various officers of the court must be approved by a majority of the city council before they shall take effect. Any such rules must be available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk/clerk of the municipal court and shall, if requested, be made available to any party before the court at least 48 hours before any hearing or proceeding.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § V)
Sec. 14-26. - Convening.
The court shall convene at such times as may be determined by the judge of the municipal court or by the city council.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § VI)
Sec. 14-27. - Court powers.
The powers of the court shall be as set out in the city Charter, as set by the laws of the state, and as set from time to time by the mayor and council.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § VII)
Sec. 14-28. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from a decision and judgment of the municipal court shall be to the superior court of the county, as authorized by the laws of the state and the rules of the superior courts of the northern judicial circuit.
(Ord. of 3-7-2005(1), § VIII)
