Chapter 18 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND TRAILERS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Standards and requirements for installation, and licensing of manufactured homes and mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-110 et seq.; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 18-1—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOMES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Installation of pre-owned manufactured homes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-170 et seq.

Sec. 18-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously utilized as a residential dwelling and has been titled at any location, regardless of distance, from the site being currently permitted, or which has been owned by a previous owner at the current site or at another site.
(Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 2)
Sec. 18-20. - Inspections.
(a)
All pre-owned manufactured homes that are relocating in or into the city, or which change ownership at their current location with or without being relocated, must pass a safety and health inspection by the county building inspector at their approved fee, or an independent licensed home inspector, or by the county building inspector where the pre-owned manufactured home is located. The inspection will cover, but not be limited to:
(1)
Exterior conditions.
a.
The exterior of the home shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior walls or living space.
b.
The exterior must be uniform in appearance.
c.
The roof shall be structurally sound with no obvious defects which might allow rain or cause moisture to collect on the inside of the home.
(2)
Interior conditions.
a.
The floors, walls and ceiling shall be in sound condition and appearance.
b.
The doors and windows shall be operable and in good working condition. There must be at least one escape window per bedroom.
c.
Operable smoke detectors must be in place in any common hallway and in each bedroom.
d.
Bathrooms and kitchens without a window must have an operable ventilation device.
e.
The home shall contain a kitchen sink and an approved electrical hookup for an electric range type stove or approved natural gas or propane piping for a gas stove.
f.
Each bathroom in the home shall contain a lavatory and water closet; and at least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facility.
(3)
Utilities.
a.
All plumbing fixtures must be in working condition and free of leaks and obstructions.
b.
All plumbing fixtures in sinks, tubs, showers, and washing machine hookups must have both hot and cold water supplied.
c.
The hot water heater must be in safe working condition and free of leaks.
d.
Heating units must operate in a safe working condition. If the heating system is of type which requires venting, the system or heating unit shall be properly vented.
e.
Electrical panels shall be in compliance with the approved listing, complete with required breakers or fuses, with all unused openings covered with blank covers approved and listed for that purpose. All breakers or fuses shall be correctly labeled as to the portion of the electrical system that breaker or fuse protects. The electrical system must meet the requirements of the National Electrical Code and the electric utility company providing electrical service to the new location, whichever is more stringent. All panels must be accessible.
f.
All switches, receptacles, fixtures, etc., must be properly installed, wired and shall be in working condition.
g.
All mobile and manufactured homes, new or pre-owned, erected or located in the city must:
1.
Meet the requirements of the currently enforced building code, the state fire marshal and the manufacturers specifications prescribed for the setup of such dwelling unit, whichever is more stringent. These include, but are not limited to: footings, piers, tie downs and anchors;
2.
Meet the requirements of the National Electrical Code (NEC) and the electric utility company providing electrical service, whichever is more stringent;
3.
Be provided with prefabricated or permanent stairs and landing, constructed of pressure-treated lumber, masonry or metal sufficient to provide safe ingress and egress from two exterior doors of the unit. Individual landings shall be a minimum of 16 square feet (four feet by four feet) and contain side rails if over 30 inches from the ground;
4.
The area beneath the ground floor of the structure shall be enclosed around the exterior of the structure with a non-load-bearing curtain wall constructed of masonry block, brick, poured concrete, or stone finish, at least four inches thick. The curtain wall shall be penetrated only by openings for installed vents and access doors. The use of vinyl or metal curtain walls is prohibited;
5.
Have utility meters mounted to the structure rather than on a utility pole, where roof construction will allow, in compliance with the applicable building and electrical codes;
6.
Have no electrical power supplied to the dwelling unit until all these requirements are satisfied as determined by the county building inspector or his authorized agent; and
7.
Meet all other state and city statutes, regulations and ordinances.
(b)
No mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home shall be occupied until the standards herein are met. In addition to the standards specified in this section, all pre-owned manufactured homes must comply with all other applicable local and state laws and regulations.
(Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 3)
Sec. 18-21. - Building and occupancy permits.
(a)
A person desiring to obtain a building and occupancy permit for a mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home to be located in the city shall apply for a letter of intent from the city clerk. This letter of intent will be presented by the applicant to the county building inspector or his authorized agent before any such mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home is located within the corporate limits of the city. The county building inspector shall issue the building and occupancy permit once he is satisfied that all requirements of this article have been complied with.
(b)
A building permit is also required if the mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home is added to or structurally altered ten square feet or more.
(c)
A building permit shall not be issued for a mobile, manufactured or pre-owned manufactured home containing aluminum wiring.
(d)
All mobile and manufactured homes must be registered with the county tax commissioner.
(e)
All mobile and/or manufactured homes must have approval of the septic system from the county health department before a permit can be issued.
(f)
An application for a building and occupancy permit for a mobile or manufactured home must be filed by the owner or owner's agent, along with a letter of intent from the city clerk, with the county building inspector. The application must contain:
(1)
A description of the mobile or manufactured home as to size and dimension; year and model of the unit; the zoning district and classification; tax map and parcel number of the planned location of the mobile or manufactured home; the intended use of the mobile or manufactured home; the name of the owner and the name of the intended occupant; the source of water; and the type of waste disposal system;
(2)
If the intended use of the mobile or manufactured home is as an accessory use, hardship use or farm caretaker, then details of such proposed use shall be provided by the applicant;
(3)
If the application is for relocation of a mobile home which was not constructed in accordance with the federal manufactured home construction safety standards required by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), a pre-permitting inspection must be accomplished before a building and occupancy permit is issued;
(4)
The applicant must provide a copy of a plat recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county of the tract where the mobile or manufactured home will be located and a sketch plan of where on the tract the structure itself, the components of the septic system, and the drive and parking areas are to be located;
(5)
A septic tank permit from the county board of health or a verification letter for existing systems;
(6)
An access letter from the state department of transportation for all new driveways accessing from a state highway;
(7)
The name of the person setting up the home;
(8)
The name of the electrician performing the electrical work; and
(9)
Proof of a current county tax decal.
(g)
Prior to obtaining a building permit it shall be unlawful to move, locate, relocate, erect or make utility connections of any kind to a mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home within the city.
(h)
Prior to obtaining a building permit it shall be unlawful to occupy or otherwise use as a residence a mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home within the city.
(Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 4)
Sec. 18-22. - Temporary usage.
A mobile, manufactured, or pre-owned manufactured home may be used as an office in a subdivision, by a contractor during construction and development, as a temporary residence during the construction of a permanent residence, or as a temporary residence during the reconstruction of a permanent residence which had been destroyed by a fire, natural disaster, or condemnation. All of the uses within this section must be requested in writing, be for a period not exceeding 12 months, and have written approval of the city clerk. The city clerk, with the approval of the mayor and council, may extend the period one time where necessary for up to an additional 12-month period. All setback requirements for the lot on which the temporary usage is allowed must be satisfied.
(Ord. of 1-5-2015, § 5)
