ARTICLE VI. - R-2 ONE[-FAMILY], TWO[-FAMILY] AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

Section 6.01. - R-2 residential district [statement of purpose].
The intent of the R-2 residential district is to provide for medium to higher density residential development; to provide for variety in the city's housing stock; encourage neighborhood maintenance and preservation; and to provide suitable areas for new multifamily development.
Section 6.02. - Permitted uses.
[Permitted uses in the R-2 district shall include the following:]
A.
Any use permitted in the R-1 residential districts.
B.
Manufactured homes. (Mobile homes, see section 4.15.)
C.
Modular homes.
Section 6.03. - Conditional uses.
[Conditional uses permitted in the R-2 district shall include the following:]
A.
Churches, provided that the proposed site for a church is not less than one acre, a complete site development sketch plan is submitted with the application and provision is made for off-street parking. This provision is subject to any current Georgia law.
B.
Public and private schools. This provision is subject to any current Georgia law.
C.
Recreational developments, including, but not limited to, private or public lakes, swimming pools, golf courses or driving ranges, or other recreational developments, provided that a comprehensive development plan for the area is submitted to the planning commission and includes the location of the site of maps [of] not less than one inch equals 400 feet scale, the location and function of all buildings, and modifications of the natural landscape, the location and surface treatment of all roadways, appropriate details of drinking water of sanitary facilities, plus a time schedule.
D.
Cemeteries, provided that a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application.
E.
Clubs and fraternal organizations not operating for profit, provided that:
1.
The buildings are not placed closer than 50 feet to any property lines; and
2.
There is a planted buffer strip at least ten feet wide along the side and rear lot lines.
F.
Public buildings, structures or land uses.
G.
Hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, nursing homes, rest homes, residences for aged persons, orphanages, group homes, and half-way homes.
H.
Home occupations. Home occupations as restricted and defined in article II.
I.
Nursery schools, kindergartens or day care facilities, provided that all state licensing requirements are met.
J.
Mortuaries.
K.
Professional offices.
L.
Boardinghomes.
M.
Art, music, photographic and dance studios.
N.
Duplexes.
O.
Multiple-family dwellings. [2]
P.
Townhouses (see article II).
Q.
Radio, cellular phone or similar transmission/receiving towers.
R.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the local neighborhood and environment as interpreted by the planning commission and approved by the city council.
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
For development of multiple-family areas of only one structure on any given site. The R-PUD development standards, article VII, will govern multiple dwellings of more than one building on a given site.

Section 6.04. - Area, height and setback requirements.
[Area, height and setback requirements shall be] in accordance with the schedule of regulations [as set forth in] article XIX.
