ARTICLE XXIII. - INTERPRETATION, APPLICATION, VIOLATIONS, VALIDITY, CONFLICT AND EFFECTIVE DATE[12]
modified

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-03 , § 1(Exh. A, § B) adopted July 16, 2018, renumbered the existing Article XXI as a new Article XXII; however, said provisions have been redesignated as Article XXIII, §§ 23.01—23.05, at the editor's discretion, for the purposes of maintaining the numbering style of the Code.

Section 23.01. - Interpretation, purpose and conflict.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
It is not intended by this ordinance to interfere with, or abrogate or annul any ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this ordinance, or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises, and likewise not in conflict with this ordinance; nor is it intended by this ordinance to interfere with, or abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this ordinance imposes a greater restriction or requires larger open spaces, or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by such ordinances shall control.
Section 23.02. - Violations and penalties.
Any person violating, or neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imposition of the appropriate fine or by imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
Section 23.03. - Validity.
This ordinance, and the various articles, sections, paragraphs and clauses thereof, are hereby declared to be severable. If any article, section, paragraph or clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby provided that the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
Section 23.04. - Conflicting provisions repealed.
All other ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance, to the extent of such conflict and not further, are hereby repealed.
Section 23.05. - Effective date.
The provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Sylvester and are hereby ordered to be given immediate effect from and after the date of its passage.
