ARTICLE VI. - SMALL CLAIMS COURT[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1972 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1023), p. 2590, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Creation.
There is hereby created and established a Small Claims Court in and for Coffee County. Said court shall have civil jurisdiction in cases ex contractu in which the demand or value of the property involved does not exceed $2,500.00, said jurisdiction to be concurrent with the jurisdiction of any other court or courts now or hereafter established in said county. Said jurisdiction shall include the power to issue writs of garnishment and attachment and, in addition to the powers herein specifically granted, all the powers granted to justices of the peace by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 1, p. 2918)
Sec. 2. - Judge; qualifications.
[a]
Any person appointed as a judge of the Small Claims Court created by this Act must be a resident of Coffee County, at least twenty-two years of age, have completed a high school education, and must be a person of outstanding character and integrity.
[b]
All other officers, now or hereafter provided, appointed to, or employed by, said court must be at least twenty-one years of age and must be residents of the county.
Sec. 3. - Judge unable to serve.
Whenever the judge of the Small Claims Court shall be unable, from absence, sickness, or other cause, to discharge any duty whatever appertaining to his office, the judge of the Superior Court of Coffee County or any judge of a State Court located in said county, on application of said judge of the Small Claims Court who is unable to act, shall perform such duties, and hear and determine all such matters as may be submitted to him, and shall be substituted in all respects in the place and stead, and in the matter aforesaid, of the judge unable to act.
Sec. 4. - Clerk.
Any duties herein prescribed to be performed by the clerk may be performed by the judge, although the judge may appoint a person to act as clerk. Said clerk shall be compensated, if at all, from the fees herein authorized.
Sec. 5. - Fees as remuneration.
(a)
Upon the filing of a claim, the plaintiff shall deposit with the court the sum of $22.00 for claims of $1,000.00 or less and the sum of $25.00 for claims in excess of $1,000.00, which shall cover all cost of the proceeding including the cost of service of the notice. The deposit of cost in cases of attachment, garnishment, or trover shall be $20.00. If a party shall fail to pay any accrued cost, the judge shall have the power to deny said party the right to file any new case while such cost remains unpaid and likewise shall have the power to deny such litigant the right to proceed further in any pending case. The award of court cost, as between the parties, shall be in the discretion of the judge; and such cost shall be taxed in the cause at the judge's discretion.
(b)
Whenever a claim affidavit and bond is filed by a third party claiming personal property that has been attached or levied upon under an attachment or executions issued from the small claims court, the levying officer shall forthwith return the same to said court; and the issues raised by such claim affidavit shall be heard and determined by the judge of said small claims court. The judge shall be entitled to a fee of $20.00 for every such claim case. The same rules of practice and procedure shall apply as in cases of affidavits of illegality. All attachment proceedings shall be tried by the judge and without a jury.
(c)
Fees collected by the judge, as herein authorized, shall be retained by him as his sole remuneration.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 3, p. 2918; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1354) § 1, p. 4384)
Sec. 6. - Pleadings; summons.
Actions shall be commenced by the filing of a statement of claim, including the last known address of the defendant, in concise form and free from technicalities. The plaintiff or his agent shall verify the statement of claim by oath or affirmation in the form herein provided, or its equivalent, and shall affix his signature thereto. At the request of any individual, the judge or clerk may prepare the statement of claim and other papers required to be filed in an action.
(a)
A copy of the verified statement of claim, together with a notice of hearing in the form hereinafter prescribed, shall be served on the defendant, and such service shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction in the premises. Summons to affect such service shall be issued by the court in no event later than 30 days after the filing of the claim. Service of said notice shall be made only within the county. Said service shall be made by any official or person authorized by law to serve process in the superior court, by a duly qualified bailiff of the Small Claims Court, by registered or certified mail with receipt, or by any person not a party to, or otherwise interested in, the suit, who is specially appointed by the judge of said court for that purpose.
(b)
When notice is to be served by registered or certified mail, the clerk or the judge shall enclose a copy of the statement of claim, the verification and the notice in an envelope addressed to the defendant at his last known address, prepay the postage from monies collected for that purpose, and mail the same forthwith, noting the date and hour of mailing on the record. When a receipt therefor is returned, or if the sealed envelope in which said notice was mailed to the defendant by registered or certified mail is returned to the sender by United States postal authorities marked "refused," giving the date of refusal, and such notation of refusal is signed or initialed by a United States postal employee or United States mail carrier to whom refusal was made, then the clerk or judge shall attach the same to the original statement and notice of claim, or otherwise file it as a part of the record in the case, and it shall be prima facie evidence of service upon the defendant.
(c)
When served by a private individual, as provided above, such individual shall make proof of service by affidavit, showing the time and place of such service on the defendant.
(d)
When served as provided, the actual cost of service shall be taxable as costs, but shall not exceed $5.00. The cost of service shall be advanced by the party demanding same, in addition to the filing fee hereinafter provided, and shall be taxed as other costs.
(e)
The plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment by default, without further proof, upon the failure of the defendant to appear, when the claim of the plaintiff is for a liquidated amount.
(f)
Said notice shall include the date, hour and location of the hearing, which date shall not be less than ten nor more than thirty days from the date of the service of said notice; provided, however, that where service is made by registered or certified mail, the date of mailing shall be the date of service.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 2, p. 2918; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1354) § 2, p. 4384)
Editor's note— 1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 2, p. 2918 amended subsection 6(a) of the original Act. 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1354) § 2, p. 4384 amended subsection 6(d) of the original Act.
Sec. 7. - Docket.
A docket shall be maintained in which every proceeding and ruling had in each case shall be indicated.
Sec. 8. - Costs.
(a)
The plaintiff, when he files his claim, shall deposit the sum of $7.50 with the court. The deposit of cost in cases of attachment, garnishment or trover shall be $7.50. If a party shall fail to pay any accrued cost, the judge shall have the power to deny said party the right to file any new case while such costs remain unpaid and, likewise, shall have the power to deny such litigant the right to proceed further in any pending case. The award of court costs shall be mandatory and such costs shall be taxed to the nonprevailing party.
(b)
Whenever a claim affidavit and bond is filed by a third party claiming personal property that has been attached or levied upon under an attachment or execution issued from the Small Claims Court, the levying officer shall forthwith return the same to said court, and the issues raised by such claim affidavit shall be heard and determined by the judge of said Small Claims Court. A deposit of $7.50 for every such claim case shall be made to the court. The same rules of practice and procedure shall apply as in cases of affidavits of illegality. All attachment proceedings shall be tried by the judge and without a jury.
(c)
The remainder of the court fee due after payment of the deposit, as provided in this section, shall be paid within 30 days of the date the deposit is made.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 4, p. 2918; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1354) § 3, p. 4384)
Sec. 9. - Trials.
(a)
The trial shall be conducted on the day set for the hearing, or at such later time as the judge may set. Immediately prior to the trial of any case, the judge shall make an earnest effort to settle the controversy by conciliation. If the judge fails to induce the parties to settle their differences without a trial, he shall proceed with the hearing on its merits.
(b)
The judge shall conduct the trial in such manner as to do substantial justice between the parties according to the rules of substantive law. All rules and regulations relating to pleading, practice, and procedure shall be liberally construed so as to administer justice.
(c)
If the plaintiff fails to appear the suit may be dismissed for want of prosecution, the defendant may proceed to a trial on the merits, or the case may be continued as the judge may direct. If both parties fail to appear the judge may continue the case, order the same dismissed for want of prosecution, or make any other just and proper disposition thereof, as justice may require.
Sec. 10. - Setoff.
If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff, the judge may require a statement of setoff to be filed, or same may be waived. If the plaintiff requires time to prepare his defense against such claim, the judge may continue the case for such purpose. If any defendant has any claim against the plaintiff which exceeds the jurisdiction of the court, he may use a part thereof to offset the claim of the plaintiff.
Sec. 11. - Judgment; financial inquiry.
When the judgment is to be rendered and the party against whom it is to be entered requests it, the judge shall inquire fully into the earnings and financial status of such party and shall have full discretionary power to stay the entry of judgment, to stay execution, and to order partial payments in such amounts, over such periods, and upon such terms as shall seem just under the circumstances and as will assure a definite and steady reduction of the judgment until it is finally and completely satisfied.
Sec. 12. - Collection of judgments.
The judge of said small claims court shall not be obligated to collect such deferred partial payments on judgments so rendered but, if the plaintiff so requests, the judge may do so at the expense of the plaintiff for clerical and accounting costs incurred thereby.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 5, p. 2918; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1354) § 4, p. 4384)
Sec. 13. - Rules.
The judge of the Superior Court of Coffee County may, from time to time, make rules for a simple, inexpensive and speedy procedure to effectuate the purposes of this Act and shall have power to prescribe, modify and improve the forms to be used therein to ensure the proper administration of justice and to accomplish the purposes hereof.
Sec. 14. - Bailiffs.
The judge of said Small Claims Court shall have the power to appoint one or more bailiffs of and for said Small Claims Court, to act within and throughout the limits of the county. Such bailiffs shall serve at the pleasure of the judge and under his direction. Any person so appointed shall be known and designated as "Small Claims Court Bailiff" and shall have the powers and authority, and shall be subject to the penalties, of lawful constables of the State of Georgia, including the power to serve any and all summons and writs issued from or by said Small Claims Court. Said bailiffs shall also have the power to make levies, conduct judicial sales, and account therefor, in the manner of lawful constables. Within five days following their appointment, all such bailiffs shall take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed in Code section 24-804 and give the bond prescribed in Code section 24-811. Such bailiffs shall be subject to removal from office for failure of duty or malfeasance in office, as are other lawful constables of this State. The sheriff of said county and his deputies shall also have the power and authority to serve summons, make levies and sales, and serve as ex officio bailiffs of said court.
Editor's note— References to "Code section 24-804" and "Code section 24-811" in the above section are to the 1933 Code of Georgia. These 1933 Code sections were repealed in their entirety by 1983 Ga. Laws (Act No. 429) § 4-2, p. 884, and not replaced by any subsequent statute.
Sec. 15. - Judgments as a lien.
A judgment of said Small Claims Court shall become a lien on both the real and personal property of a defendant, regardless of where such property is situated within the State. Said judgment shall become a lien at the time an execution based upon such judgment is filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court for said county and the entry thereof is made by the clerk in the general execution docket for said county.
Sec. 16. - Appeals.
Appeals may be had from judgments returned in the Small Claims Court to the superior court, and the same provisions now provided for by general law for appeals, contained in Code Chapter 6-1 [O.C.G.A. § 15-6-1 et seq.] to the superior court, shall be applicable to appeals from the Small Claims Court to the superior court, the same to be a de novo appeal.
Sec. 17. - Forms.
Until otherwise provided by the rules of the court, the statement of claim, verification, and notice shall be in the following form, or equivalent from, and shall be in lieu of any forms now employed and of any form of summons now provided by law:
[a]
"Small Claims Court of Coffee County."
[b]
"Statement of Claim."
[c]
"Notice."
Editor's note— Section 17 of the original Act, 1972 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1023), p. 2590, contained images of three court forms: Small Claims Court of Coffee County from; Statement of Claim form; and Notice form. These forms were not reprinted in this publication, at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 18. - Appointment of judge.
(a)
Each judge of the said court shall be a duly qualified person and shall be appointed by the Governor for a term of 4 years and until the appointment and qualification of his successor. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(b)
The first judge appointed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be appointed for a term beginning on June 1, 1980.
(c)
The judge in office on the effective date of this Act shall remain in office until the appointment and qualification of his successor by the Governor as provided in this section.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 6, p. 2918)
Sec. 19. - Office space, facilities, and supplies.
All office space, courtroom facilities, forms, docket books, file jackets, filing cabinets, materials, equipment and supplies required by this Act, or necessary for the efficient operation of said court, shall be furnished by the Board of County Commissioners. They shall also provide a suitable room in the courthouse for the holding of said court.
Sec. 20. - Law library.
The State Librarian is hereby authorized and directed to furnish all available volumes of Georgia Laws to the Small Claims Court, without cost to the court or the county.
Sec. 21. - No terms.
Said Small Claims Court shall have no designated terms at stated periods. The judge thereof shall, in each instance, set dates for all hearings and trials in each type of case. He shall also designate the time or times for the return of attachments and executions, and he shall also designate the time when each answer to a summons of garnishment shall be filed. No garnishee may be required to file his answer sooner than ten days after he is served with summons, however. Whenever a garnishee shall fail to answer at the time so stated in the summons served upon him, unless the court, in its discretion, extends the time for filing, the judge may immediately render judgment and issue an execution against the garnishee in favor of the plaintiff for the amount previously adjudged to be due the plaintiff by the original defendant, and also for costs in the garnishment proceeding, but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee before a final judgment shall have first been rendered against the defendant.
Sec. 22. - Garnishment.
A summons of garnishment may be served by the sheriff or his deputies, by a lawful constable, by a Small Claims Court bailiff, or by the judge of the Small Claims Court, or it may be served by registered or certified mail, provided such service by mail is evidenced by a properly signed return receipt, which receipt shall be attached to the original garnishment affidavit or to the writ of attachment. It shall be prima facie evidence of service on the garnishee if the sealed envelope in which said summons was mailed to the garnishee by registered or certified mail is returned to the sender by the United States postal authorities marked "refused," giving the date of refusal, and signed or initialed by a United States Postal Service employee or United States mail carrier to whom refusal was made. Whenever service is made in person by a court officer, as aforesaid, such officer shall enter his return of service either on the back of the original garnishment affidavit or the attachment writ, or on the back of a conformed copy of the original summons of garnishment which was given to the garnishee, or such entry of service may be made on a separate paper and attached to the said garnishment affidavit or the writ of attachment, as the case may be.
Sec. 23. - Contempt; fines.
The judge of said court shall have the power to impose fines of not more than $100.00 on, or to imprison for not longer than twenty-four hours, any person guilty of contempt of court. Such fines shall be paid into the county treasury or depository to be used for county purposes.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 141) § 7, p. 2918)
Sec. 24. - Fees of bailiff and sheriff.
The fees of the bailiff or sheriff for the execution of a fi. fa. shall be $5.00, plus a reasonable amount for drayage, to be determined by the judge of the Small Claims Court. The rate of commission on all judicial sales shall be ten percent (10%) of the first $250.00 and five percent (5%) on all sums over that amount, with a minimum of five dollars.
Sec. 25. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 26. - Repealing clause.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved March 27, 1972.
