ARTICLE III. - TAX COMMISSIONER[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1931 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 90), p. 443, as enacted by the Georgia General Assembly. The original Act, as amended, was repealed in its entirety by 1937 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 115) p. 1303, and later revived by 1939 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 379), p. 548. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Any provisions regarding the notice to introduce legislation and the jurat have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Offices of tax receiver and tax collector abolished.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the offices of tax-receiver and tax-collector of Coffee County, Georgia, are hereby abolished, and the duties of the two offices aforesaid are hereby consolidated into one office.
Sec. 2. - Office of tax commissioner created.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the office of county tax-commissioner of Coffee County, Georgia, is hereby created in lieu of said abolished offices, and the rights, duties, and liabilities of the said office of the county tax-commissioner of Coffee County shall be the same as to the rights, duties, and liabilities of the tax-receiver and tax-collector of said county, so far as same are applicable.
Sec. 3. - Effective date.
This Act shall not take effect until January 1, 1933, at the expiration of the term of office of the present tax-collector and tax-receiver of Coffee County, Georgia.
Sec. 4. - Election and term of commissioner.
There shall be held, at the general election for county officers in the year 1932, an election for county tax-commissioner of Coffee County, Georgia, who shall be elected at the same time and in the same manner as other officers of Coffee County, and whose term of office shall begin on January 1, 1933, and be for a term of four years thereafter, or until his successor is elected and qualified. The duties of said tax-commissioner shall be as herein provided.
Sec. 5. - How commissioned and qualified.
Said tax-commissioner shall be commissioned and qualified as the clerks of the superior courts are.
Sec. 6. - Vacancy.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-211.]
Sec. 7. - Second election.
Should any two or more candidates at an election to fill said vacancy, or any regular election, have the highest and an equal number of votes, said ordinary shall call and advertise another election within twenty days, in the manner above provided, and so do until a choice is made.
Sec. 8. - Taxes due when Act becomes effective; collection.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all taxes that are due and payable at the time the provisions of this Act become effective, and all tax fi. fas. theretofore issued by the tax-collector of Coffee County, Georgia, shall have full force and effect, and be collectible as issued.
Sec. 9. - Collection of fees for county.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.]
Sec. 10. - Pay of commissioner.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.]
Editor's note— Section 5 of 1965 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 33), p. 2087, as amended by 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 989) § 4, p. 2508 and 2005 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 249) § 1, p. 3836, superseded this provision of 1931 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 90), p. 443 regarding compensation of the tax commissioner, by stating that "[t]he tax commissioner shall receive an annual salary as provided in O.C.G.A. Section 48-5-183."
Sec. 10A. - Tax to pay salary.
[Section superseded by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-183.]
Editor's note— The section designated as "§ 10A- Tax to pay salary," was enacted by the General Assembly under 1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 292) § 2, p. 482, without a specific placement relative to the other sections appearing in the original Act of 1931 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 90), p. 443. Designation of the section as "§ 10A- Tax to pay salary" and placement of it at this location were at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 11. - Oath and bond.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that before entering upon the duties of his office the said county tax commissioner shall take the oath now prescribed by law for the tax-collector, and shall give bond in double the amount of money reasonably estimated to pass through his hands annually, which bond shall be signed as surety by a bonding company legally authorized to do business in the State of Georgia, and the fee or cost for the suretyship on said bond shall be paid out of the funds of Coffee County, Georgia, as part of the expense of county government.
Sec. 12. - Severability.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that if for any reason any portion of this Act shall be held by the court of last resort of this State to be unconstitutional, the whole of this Act shall not thereby become void, but only so much of the same as may be held to be unconstitutional; the purpose of this Act being to put into effect the constitution of this State, as is contained in article eleven, section three, paragraph one.
Sec. 13. - Repealing clause.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Approval Date: Approved August 14, 1931.
