Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; building trade contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; enforcement of adopted codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; state minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; county building, electrical, and other codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; local government code enforcement boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-74-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Scope and effect of provisions.
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any party owning, operating, repairing, controlling or installing any building, structure or alteration falling within the scope of this chapter from damages to anyone injured thereby, nor shall the city be held as assuming any liability by reason of inspection authorized or certificate issued under this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 6-2-9)
Sec. 8-2. - Building inspector appointed to enforce chapter.
The city has created and established the office of building inspector. The building inspector is appointed by the mayor and city council and serves at their pleasure. The building inspector is charged with the duty of enforcement of this chapter and shall perform other duties as may be prescribed by the mayor and city council. The building inspector appointed by the city council may be a city employee or a county employee.
(Code 1989, § 6-2-2)
Secs. 8-3—8-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUILDING PERMITS

Sec. 8-23. - Required; application; fees.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to set up any mobile home within the city or to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove, convert, or destroy any building or structure within the city if the cost of construction will exceed $1,000.00 without first having obtained a building permit. Application for a building permit shall be made to the building inspector on forms prescribed by the city council and shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule and such additional information and supporting documentation as the building inspector may require.
(b)
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans or specifications shall not be deemed or construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of chapter 40, pertaining to zoning, or of any other chapter of the city. No permit presuming to give the authority to violate or cancel the provisions of chapter 40, pertaining to zoning, shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful.
(c)
Issuance of a permit upon plans and specifications shall not prevent the building inspector or city from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in such plans and specifications, or from thereafter preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of chapter 40, pertaining to zoning, or of any other chapter of the city. Permits for construction and uses which require a conditional use or variance to the general requirements of chapter 40, pertaining to zoning, shall be issued by the building inspector only upon order of the city council.
(Code 1989, §§ 6-2-1, 6-2-3; Ord. of 1-12-2009, § 9.02)
Sec. 8-24. - Application requirements.
No permit shall be issued for the construction, alteration, remodeling, or placement of any building, sign, structure, or manufactured home, until a written application is filed with the city by the owner of the property affected or by the authorized agent of such owner. The application shall at a minimum:
(1)
Include all forms as may be provided by the zoning administrator or other city representative for such purpose, and must include all required information on the forms by the applicant.
(2)
Include a surveyors plat of the property affected.
(3)
Include a detailed statement as to the proposed use of the building or land for which a permit is sought.
(4)
Include plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any; the location and dimensions of the proposed building, sign, manufactured home, or alteration.
(5)
If the development for which the permit is other than a single-family or small agricultural use, a more formal site plan may be required by the zoning administrator. This site plan shall be provided in triplicate and submitted with the application and shall show the following at a scale not more than 50 feet to the inch:
a.
Title, if any, under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of the present owner.
b.
Names of owners of adjacent property.
c.
A topographic map showing the location of existing property lines, streets, alleys, buildings, easements, watercourses, and other physical site features, including the location of existing trees of four inches or larger in caliper as measured at breast height.
d.
The exact size, shape, and location of the building or structure to be erected thereon with exact distances from the building or structure to property lines and street rights-of-way.
e.
Other proposed improvements, landscaping, or buffers proportionally and exactly dimensioned.
f.
Proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal, and storm drainage.
g.
All proposed uses of the property to be developed appropriately indicated on the plan.
h.
Other information as may be required to insure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
i.
Date, north arrow, and graphic scale.
j.
The name and address of a registered surveyor or engineer chosen by the applicant who is authorized to stake the road lines and location of such proposed development.
(6)
Other such information as may be required by the zoning administrator to determine compliance with and provide for enforcement of this chapter.
(7)
In addition, the zoning administrator may require certified "as-built" site plans or other information necessary to determine chapter and initial permit compliance before issuing a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 1-12-2009, § 9.03)
Sec. 8-25. - Denial of application for permit.
If the application for a building permit is not approved, the building inspector shall immediately notify the applicant in writing on the application the cause for denial. Upon receipt of notice, the applicant may re-apply for a building permit, provided he overcomes, to the satisfaction of the building inspector, the causes for the previous denial, or he may institute appeal proceedings.
(Code 1989, § 6-2-4)
Sec. 8-26. - Building permit valuations.
If, in the opinion of the building inspector, the valuation of the building, alteration, or structure appears to be underestimated on the application, the application for building permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimated costs to meet the approval of the building inspector. Permit valuations shall include total costs, such as plumbing, electrical, mechanical equipment and other systems.
(Code 1989, § 6-2-5)
Sec. 8-27. - Penalties.
Any person failing to obtain a building permit before commencing construction shall be punished by fine of not more than $100.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days or both of these punishments.
(Code 1989, § 6-2-6)
Secs. 8-28—8-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUILDING AND TECHNICAL CODES

Sec. 8-52. - Adopted by reference; copies to be made publicly available.
(a)
The city adopts, to the extent applicable in the city, as though fully set forth herein, the following state minimum standards codes and permissive codes, as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20 and 8-2-21, as supplemented and amended by the state department of community affairs, and as may be amended by provisions of this chapter or of this Code generally:
(1)
International Building Code, 2006 Edition;
(2)
International Residential Code, 2006 Edition;
(3)
International Fire Code, 2006 Edition;
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition;
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition;
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2009 Edition;
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2011 Edition;
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 Edition;
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition; and
(10)
International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition.
(b)
Subsequent editions or amendments to the adopted publications and state amendments and errata shall become effective 30 days after the city council receives notice that copies of such publications have been obtained, unless the council within such 30-day period disapproves the subsequent edition or amendment.
(c)
A copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk and kept on file in the office of the clerk where they shall be available for public inspection.
Sec. 8-53. - Codes remedial in nature.
The city's technical codes are remedial in nature, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems (herein "service systems").
Sec. 8-54. - Quality control.
Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this Code except as it relates to the purposes stated herein.
Sec. 8-55. - Liability of city.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan under the requirements of this Code shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the city nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, that may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
Sec. 8-56. - Conflict of regulations.
Where in any specific case sections of the technical codes, of this Code, and of state or federal laws or regulations specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
Sec. 8-57. - Appendices to technical codes.
Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
Sec. 8-58. - Referenced standards.
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
Sec. 8-59. - Requirements not covered by code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this or the other technical codes, shall be determined by the building inspector.
Sec. 8-60. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the building inspector. The building inspector shall approve any such alternate, provided the building inspector finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The building inspector shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
Sec. 8-61. - Existing buildings to comply.
Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing structure, building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system without requiring the building, structure, plumbing, electrical, mechanical or gas system to comply with all the requirements of the technical codes, provided that the alteration, repair or rehabilitation work conforms to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. The building inspector shall determine the extent to which the existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction.
Sec. 8-62. - Change of occupancy.
If the occupancy classification of any existing building or structure is changed, the building, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems shall be made to conform to the intent of the technical codes as required by the building inspector.
Secs. 8-63—8-88. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - UNFIT STRUCTURES

Sec. 8-89. - Enforcement officer designated.
The building inspector is designated as the public officer authorized to exercise the powers prescribed by this article, including the power and duty to:
(1)
Investigate the structure and dwelling conditions in the city to determine their fitness for human habitation or current commercial or business use;
(2)
Administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses and receive evidence;
(3)
Enter upon premises for the purpose of making such examinations, provided it is in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the person in possession;
(4)
Appoint and fix duties of such officers and agents as deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of this article; and
(5)
Delegate powers and functions under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-1)
Sec. 8-90. - Procedure for filing charges and serving notice.
A public officer or five residents of the city may file a request with the building inspector, or the building inspector may make such a motion on his own, charging that a structure is unfit. The building inspector will make a preliminary investigation to determine if there is a basis for the charges. If he finds there is a basis, he will issue and cause to be served a complaint upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such structure. The complaint will state the charges and contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the building inspector or his designated agent at a place within the city not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-2)
Sec. 8-91. - Right to file an answer.
The owner and any parties in interest have the right to file an answer to the complaint and appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the hearing. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the hearings before the building inspector.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-3)
Sec. 8-92. - Findings.
(a)
After notice and hearing, the building inspector may determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation of its current commercial or business use if he finds conditions in the structure that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants of the dwelling or of neighboring dwellings or of other residents in the municipality. Such conditions may include but are not limited to, dilapidation, disrepair, structural defects, uncleanliness, lack of adequate ventilation, lack of adequate light, lack of adequate sanitary facilities, and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities. The building inspector shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of his determination.
(b)
If the building inspector finds the structure is not unfit, the matter will be closed. If the building inspector finds the structure is unfit, his findings of fact must include a determination of whether the cost of repair would exceed one-half the value such structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of law.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-4)
Sec. 8-93. - Issuance of orders.
The building inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon each person in possession of the property, each owner, and each party in interest an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest within a time specified in the order to repair, alter, or improve the structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or its current commercial use or to vacate and close the dwelling as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the structure, requiring the owner to remove or demolish the structure.
In no event shall the building inspector order removal or demolition except upon a finding that the cost of repair exceeds one-half the value such structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of law.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-5)
Sec. 8-94. - Proof of service of complaints and orders.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by the building inspector shall in all cases be served upon each person in possession, each owner and party in interest. The return of service signed by the building inspector or his agent or an affidavit of service executed by any state citizen shall be sufficient evidence of service.
(b)
Service upon parties who reside outside the municipality shall be by the sheriff or any other duly authorized law enforcement or other officer of the county of the residence of such party or by any duly authorized citizen. The return of such sheriff or deputy of the affidavit of such citizen stating that the parties were served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or orders at their residence shall be conclusive as to service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by publishing the notice once each week for two successive weeks in the local newspaper. A copy of the complaint or orders shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. If the address of the nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaint or orders shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
If the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the building inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect and service shall be made by publication as provided in this section for nonresidents. In the alternative, service may be made upon any person, firm or corporation holding itself out as an agent for the property involved.
(e)
A copy of such complaint or orders shall also be filed in the proper office or offices for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county in which the structure is located. Any such complaint or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the city clerk.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-6)
Sec. 8-95. - Failure to comply with order.
(a)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the structure, the building inspector may cause such structure to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. He may cause to be posted on the main entrance of the structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(b)
Before the building inspector may exercise the duties outlined in this section, an ordinance must be passed by the mayor and council finding that the specific structure is unfit and ordering the building inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-7)
Sec. 8-96. - Cost of vacating and closing or removal and demolition.
(a)
The cost of vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the city shall be a lien against the real property upon which such costs were incurred. The lien shall attach upon the payment of all costs of demolition and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the costs by the building inspector in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes.
(b)
If the structure is removed or demolished by the building inspector, he shall sell the material from the structure and credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the building inspector, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by the court and shall be disbursed by the court to persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-8)
Sec. 8-97. - Collection of amount due on a lien.
The city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such a lien for demolition or removal of a structure in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due by paying to the city within 30 days after the perfection of the lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total due. The remaining balance together with an interest rate of seven percent per annum shall be paid to the city in three equal annual payments, each of which will come due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment.
(2)
Should the property upon which the lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, then the entire balance shall be due and payable to the city.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of the three-year period or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this section, the city may enforce collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of such structure. Collection will be made pursuant to state law.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-9)
Sec. 8-98. - Other unsafe conditions.
All the provisions of this article, including method and procedure, may also be applied to private property where an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions shall create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing in the vicinity. A finding of any governmental health department, health official or building inspector that such property is a health hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that the property is in violation of this article.
(Code 1989, § 6-5-10)
Secs. 8-99—8-124. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BUILDING NUMBERING

Sec. 8-125. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish that all lots, houses, buildings, offices, and structures within the corporate limits of the city shall be properly and orderly numbered in accordance with the master plan of proper and orderly numbering as established by the mayor and council.
(Code 1989, § 6-10-1)
Sec. 8-126. - Proper numbering chart.
The city shall keep a chart showing proper street numbers and shall assign to every building or lot the proper number by which it is to be designated.
(Code 1989, § 6-10-2)
Sec. 8-127. - Numbers on houses.
It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house or building within the city limits to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures at least 2½ inches high, showing the proper number of such house or building.
(Code 1989, § 6-10-3)
