ARTICLE VIII. - NONCONFORMING USES

Sec. 801. - Nonconforming uses.
Within the zoning districts established by this zoning ordinance or amendments that may be adopted later there might exist land, structures, and uses of land and structures in combination which were lawful before this zoning ordinance was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this zoning ordinance or future amendments. Such nonconforming uses are declared by this zoning ordinance to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is the intent of this zoning ordinance to permit these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuance.
Sec. 802. - General rule.
To avoid undue hardship, the lawful use of any building, structure or land use at the time of enactment of this zoning ordinance may be continued even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this zoning ordinance except that the nonconforming building or land use shall not be:
(a)
Changed to another nonconforming use. A change in tenancy or ownership shall not be considered a change to another nonconforming use, provided that the use itself remains unchanged.
(b)
Reestablished after discontinuance of six (6) months or more. When a nonconforming use of a building, structure or land use is discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months, the building, structure or land shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the existing zoning regulations of the district in which the building, structure or land is located. The provisions of this subparagraph shall operate to prohibit resumption of the nonconforming use after the specified time has elapsed, regardless of any reservation of an intent not to abandon the right to use the building, structure or land use not in conformance with the provisions of this zoning ordinance.
(c)
Major repairs, rehabilitation or alterations. A nonconforming building or structure that is repaired, rebuilt, or altered after damage exceeding fifty (50) percent of its replacement cost at the time of destruction for all uses shall be brought into conformity with the provisions of this zoning ordinance. As an exception to this requirement, single-family detached uses shall be permitted after any damage to be repaired or rebuilt to the equivalent of its pre-damaged condition. Authorized reconstruction shall begin within one (1) year after damage is incurred.
(d)
Enlargement or alteration. Enlarging, extending, altering or moving a building or structure that would increase its nonconformity shall not be allowed, except that a nonconforming use may be extended into an additional area of a building, structure or land use that existed at the time of passage or amendment of this zoning ordinance. No such nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building or structure.
Also to avoid undue hardship, nothing in this zoning ordinance shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this zoning ordinance.
Sec. 803. - Nonconforming lots of record.
Nonconforming lots of record are also known as substandard lots of record and their use is regulated by Article V of this zoning ordinance.
