Chapter 7 - COURT; CRIMINAL PROCEDURE; PRISONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Authority to provide for punishment of violators, § 1.03(v); authority to provide for commitment and working of prisoners, § 1.03(r); court established, § 3.04.
Cross reference— Fee and costs bill, § 8-1.

Sec. 7-1. - Powers and duties of judge.
(a)
Holding court. It shall be the duty of the judge of the city to hold a court to be called the "mayor's court", at such time and place within the city as the judge may order and appoint, for trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of the city.
(b)
Imposing sentence; enforcing judgments. The judge is hereby fully authorized to inflict such fines and penalties upon offenders as such judge may deem proper and just, not exceeding the limits allowed by law, or prescribed by ordinance, and to enforce the judgment of the court by the attachment of the person by execution; and to punish witnesses for nonattendance or other contempts as a court of record may do. The judge is hereby authorized to impose such alternative sentences in addition to fine and/or imprisonment as in such judge's judgment may seem meet and proper.
Charter reference— Maximum punishment, § 3.06.
Cross reference— Maximum punishment, § 1-7.
(c)
Contempt. The judge shall have power to issue attachments and inflict summary punishment for contempt of court. Such power shall not extend to any case except the misbehavior of any person in the presence of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of the court in their official transactions and the disobedience or resistance by any officer of the court, party, witness or other person to any lawful writ, process, order, rule or command of the court. The mayor's court shall have power to punish any person in contempt as aforesaid as provided by law.
Charter reference— Punishment for contempt, § 3.06.
(d)
Binding over defendants. If, after an investigation of any case, it shall appear that the court has no jurisdiction to determine it, the judge shall require the defendant to enter into bond, conditioned to appear before the next term of the court having jurisdiction, to answer for such offense, which bond shall be turned over to the proper officer of the court. In default of such bond the judge shall have power to commit the defendant to jail to answer the charge at the next term of the court having jurisdiction thereof.
(e)
Court rules. The judge may establish such local court rules of procedure, not inconsistent with law, as such judge may deem necessary for the orderly administration of justice.
(Ord. No. 87, § 1, 1-2-79)
Charter reference— Authority to bind over defendants, § 3.06; procedure, § 3.09.
State Law reference— Authority to appoint a judge, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2; authority to impose sentence, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; authority to bind over or commit offenders against the criminal law, O.C.G.A. § 17-7-22.
Sec. 7-2. - Clerk of court.
(a)
Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of clerk of the mayor's court of the city.
(b)
Appointment. The clerk of such court shall be appointed by the judge, subject to approval of the mayor, and shall hold office at the will of the mayor.
(c)
Duties. The clerk of the mayor's court shall keep the dockets of the court; attend the meetings of the court; certify to and affix the seal of the court to transcripts of records of the court; be under the direction of the judge, and perform such acts in connection with the clerk's duties as may be required by the judge. The duties of the city clerk as custodian of the official records of the mayor's court shall remain the same, but the city clerk shall not be responsible for and shall not be required to certify to the accuracy of said records.
(d)
Salary. The salary of the clerk of the mayor's court shall be fixed by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council.
(e)
Clerk pro tem. Pending the illness or absence of the clerk of the mayor's court, the judge may appoint from the members of the police department of the city a clerk pro tempore, to perform the duties of the regular clerk; the person so appointed to receive no compensation for acting as such clerk pro tempore other than such person's regular salary as a member of the police department.
(Ord. No. 87, § 2, 1-2-79)
Sec. 7-3. - Court cashier.
(a)
Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of court cashier.
(b)
Appointment. The court cashier shall be appointed by the mayor, and shall hold office at the will of the mayor.
(c)
Duties. The court cashier shall attend all sessions of court; handle and receipt all monies paid in or out in connection with the mayor's court; balance such sums in the manner prescribed by the court; report and deliver all such sums to the city clerk at the end of each court session; and be ultimately accountable to the mayor and council as to the proper handling and disposition of such sums in the manner prescribed herein.
(Ord. No. 87, § 3, 1-2-79)
Sec. 7-4. - Cash bonds.
The chief of police, the captains of police and the desk sergeants of the police department of the city are hereby designated to accept cash bonds under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 17-6-10, whereby designated officials of municipalities are authorized to accept cash bonds and to issue a receipt to the applicant for same.
All cash bonds so accepted shall be posted or accepted at the office of the police department in the city hall and at no other place, and likewise at the time such bond is so posted or accepted a receipt shall be issued at such office and at no other place.
(Code 1968, § 2-10)
Charter reference— Authority of court to establish bail, § 3.06.
State Law reference— Cash bond authorized, issuing receipt and entering on docket, O.C.G.A. §§ 9-10-10, 17-6-4.
Sec. 7-5. - Forfeiture of bond.
Any person who has been convicted in the mayor's court for the violation of any provision of this Code or other city ordinance, rule or regulation, and who has taken such case to the superior court by certiorari, and has given bond with surety conditioned that such person will personally appear and abide by the final judgment, order or sentence upon such person in such case, shall have the bond, when the case has been finally heard and determined by the superior court, or by the court of appeals upon writ of error, forfeited in the following manner:
(1)
The chief of police of the city shall give the principal, if to be found, and the sureties in such bond, five (5) days' notice, requiring such principal to be, and requiring such sureties to have such principal, present in the mayor's court on some day and hour therein named, to abide such final order, judgment or sentence upon such principal in such case. The notice may be served in person or by leaving the same at the most notorious place of abode of such principal and sureties, or at the principal's place of business.
(2)
Upon failure of such principal to personally appear and abide the final judgment, order or sentence upon such principal in such case, the judge presiding shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bond to show cause on any day and hour therein named, not to be less than five (5) days from the passage of such rule, why they should not pay the amount of such bond.
(3)
A copy of such rule shall be served upon the principal, if to be found, and the sureties, by the chief of police of the city personally, or by leaving such copy of the place of business or the most notorious place of abode of the sureties, at least three (3) days before the time therein set for hearing of the same.
(4)
If no sufficient cause is shown, the judge presiding shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and sureties for the amount of such bond, and the city clerk shall issue execution for the amount of such judgment and place such execution in the hands of the chief of police, who shall proceed to collect such execution by levy and sale as in case of tax executions.
(Code 1968, § 2-8)
State Law reference— Judgment against bail, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-71.
