Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Clarkston, Georgia, and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as the "Clarkston City Code" or the "City Code".
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art, or words connected with a particular trade or subject-matter, when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter; provided, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such definition or construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; and in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they are bound thereby.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Clarkston, Georgia," followed them.
City officials, officers, employees, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, et-cetera, by title only, i.e., "mayor," "recorder," "planning commission," or any other such designation, such reference shall be deemed to be to officials et cetera of the City of Clarkston, and powers and authority granted to them shall be deemed to be grants of such powers and authority to their respective duly designated subordinates.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, the first day to be counted shall be the day after the date from which said number of days is prescribed to be counted, and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, as amended, or additionally as designated by the city council, enumerating public and legal holidays, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty; however, when said following day shall be a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty.
Council, city council, governing body. Wherever the terms "council" "city council" and "governing body" are used, the same shall mean the city council of Clarkston, Georgia."
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean DeKalb County, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders, including firms, partnerships and corporations as well as individuals.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper, proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
May. The word "may" shall be deemed as permissive.
Month. The word "month" shall mean calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner", applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building of land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, societies, clubs, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" shall include any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property, real estate, land. The terms "real property", "real estate" and "land" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments, rights and easements of incorporated nature.
Shall. The word "shall" is mandatory and not merely directory.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The words "signature" and "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads and all other public ways in the city, and shall embrace all parts thereof within the designated right-of-way. In those instances where the public records are silent, the term shall embrace all of the area between the off-street edge of the sidewalk or walkway on each side of the street, including the grassplots or other divisional areas lying between the sidewalk and walkway and street.
Tenant, occupant. The words "tenant" and "occupant", applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies, the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1, 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-4. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances, etc.
The provisions of this Code, so far as they are in substance the same as those ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuing and superseding those ordinances and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-5. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinance.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the city, or rule or regulation or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city under authority duly vested in such officer or agency, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offence or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided therefor and not otherwise limited by law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months or by work on the city work gang not exceeding six (6) months or by any combination of such punishments. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Any such punishment shall not preclude the enforced abatement of a prohibited condition, or the pursuit of any other lawful remedy by the city.
(Ord. No. 267a, § 2, 3-4-03)
Charter reference— Jurisdiction of mayor's court, § 3.06; authority to provide punishment for violations, § 1.03(v); authority to commit and work prisoners, § 1.03(r); punishment for contempt of court, § 3.06; punishment for violation of charter, § 5.03.
Cross reference— Courts jurisdiction, § 7-1.
State Law reference— Authority of municipal court, O.C.G.A. §§ 17-7-22, 36-32-3, 36-32-5; defining criminal offenses by city, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert, or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City of Clarkston, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without incorporation in this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
