Chapter 6 - ADVERTISING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 26; advertising point of origin for services of fortunetelling, § 50-43; advertising mail order service of dream books, § 50-44; signs, ch. 62.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Banners across streets.
It shall be unlawful for any person to extend or suspend any sign or banner across any street in the city without permission from the mayor and council.
(Code 1976, § 3-5)
Sec. 6-2. - Sound trucks and sound-amplifying devices.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated in the city any sound-amplifying device or equipment for any purpose whatever, whether the same be stationary or operated from a vehicle unless a permit has been obtained from the mayor and council to do so; provided, however, it shall be unlawful for any person to make any loud and raucous noise to the disturbance of the peace. Any person to whom a permit has been issued under this section who abuses his discretion and causes or permits loud and raucous noises shall subject the permit to immediate revocation.
(b)
The words "sound-amplifying equipment" as used in this section shall mean any machine or device for the amplification of any sound.
(Code 1976, § 3-8)
Cross reference— Noise control, § 34-31 et seq.
Secs. 6-3—6-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS

Sec. 6-36. - On streets, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed on any of the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or any vacant public property within the city any paper handbills, circulars, dodgers or other advertising matter without permission of the mayor and council.
(Code 1976, § 3-3)
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 70.
Sec. 6-37. - Placing in or on vehicles.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute in the city any handbill or other similar form of advertising by throwing or placing the same in or on any automobile or other vehicle within the city.
(Code 1976, § 3-4)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.
Sec. 6-38. - Posting, etc., bills, notices, signs—On utility poles, public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint or place, or cause to be posted, painted or placed, any notice, sign, handbill, picture or advertisement whatever on any street telegraph or telephone pole, lamppost or upon the walls of any public building, or upon any property of the city, except that legal election and similar notices may be posted on bulletin boards.
(Code 1976, § 3-1)
Sec. 6-39. - Same—On private property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint or place or cause to be posted, painted or placed upon any private building or fence, any handbills, pictures, signs or advertisement whatsoever without the consent of the owner thereof first having been obtained in writing.
(Code 1976, § 3-2)
