ARTICLE 6. - FINANCE AND FISCAL

Section 6.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes, assessed as of January 1st in each year, shall be subject to the property tax levied by the City of Rossville. The council by ordinance shall elect to use the county assessment for the year in which the city taxes are to be levied and shall request the county to furnish appropriate information for such purpose.
Section 6.11. - Sales tax and income tax.
If and when the state should authorize the cities by state legislation to impose a sales tax, excise tax, or income tax, the City of Rossville, Georgia, will be authorized under this charter to impose such a tax in their discretion.
Section 6.12. - Tax levy.
The council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, providing governmental services, and for any other public purpose as determined by the council in its discretion. The council is also authorized to provide for sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. The City of Rossville is hereby exempted from the provisions of Georgia Code sections 92-4101 through 92-4104 inclusive.
Section 6.13. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and in what length of time said taxes may be paid and shall provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Section 6.14. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by fi. fa. issued by the city clerk, tax collector (finance officer) and executed by any police officer of the city under the same procedure provided by the laws governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by use of any other available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment date of each year, which lien shall be superior to all other liens, except that it shall have equal dignity with those of federal, state or county taxes. In cases of hardship, the council shall have discretionary authority to waive any and all penalties imposed by this charter on delinquent taxes, fees, assessments, or on other amounts due to the city.
Section 6.15. - Licenses, occupational taxes, excise taxes.
The council by ordinance shall have full power to levy such license and specific or occupation taxes upon the residents of the City of Rossville, both individual and corporate, and on all those who transact or offer to transact business therein, or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein, as the council may deem expedient for the public health, safety, benefit, convenience or advantage of the city; to classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful; to require such persons to procure licenses; to compel the payment of such licenses by execution or any other lawful manner; and to make laws and regulations necessary or proper to carry out the powers herein conferred, and to prescribe penalties for the violation thereof. The council shall have full power and authority to levy an excise tax not prohibited by general law.
Section 6.16. - Sewer service charges.
The council by ordinance shall have the right, power and authority to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer services rendered both within and without the corporate limits of the City of Rossville, to provide for the cost and expense of providing for the collection and disposal of sewage through the sewerage facilities of said city. If unpaid, said sewer service charge shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Section 6.17. - Sanitary and health services charge.
The council shall have authority by ordinance to provide for, to enforce, to levy and to collect the cost of sanitary and health services necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms and corporations, residing in or doing business in said city benefiting from such service. Such authority shall include the power to assess, levy, and collect annual or monthly sanitary taxes or fees in such amount or amounts, and based upon and in accordance with such classification of property and sanitary service or service provided, as may be fixed by ordinance. Said sanitary taxes and the assessment thereof shall be a charge and lien against the real estate in respect to which said taxes are so assessed, and the owner or owners thereof, superior to all other liens except for liens for county and city property taxes, and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
Section 6.18. - Special assessments.
The council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after their due dates, shall thereupon be subject, in addition to fi. fa. charges, to a penalty of ten percent and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum from date due until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided for in this article for city property taxes.
Section 6.19. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk shall be authorized to assign or transfer any fi. fa. or execution issued for any tax or for any street, sewer, or other assessment in the same manner and to the same extent as provided by Georgia law regarding sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Such transfer or assignment when made, shall vest the purchaser or transferee with all right, title and interest as provided by Georgia law governing sales and transfers of tax fi. fas. Provided that, upon levy of execution and sale of property pursuant to such tax fi. fa., whether assigned, transferred, or executed by the city, the owner of such property, in fee simple or lesser interest, shall not lose his right to redeem the property in accord with the requirements of redemption of property sold under state or county ad valorem tax fi. fas., as said requirements now exist or as may be hereinafter provided by law.
Section 6.20. - General obligation bonds.
The council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.21. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the council as provided by an act of the General Assembly of Georgia, approved March 31, 1937, known as the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761) as now or hereafter amended, or by any other Georgia law as now or hereafter provided.
Section 6.22. - Short term notes.
Pursuant to applicable state law, the city may obtain temporary loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year.
Sections 6.23—6.29. - Reserved.
Section 6.30. - Fiscal year.
The council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department or institution, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal laws.
Section 6.31. - Preparation of budgets.
The council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvement program and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budgets and programs.
Section 6.32. - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the council but not later than ninety (90) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the mayor containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget, hereinafter provided for, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Section 6.33. - Action by council on budget.
(a)
The council may amend the operating budget proposed by the mayor; except, that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of September of each year. If the council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such item, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
Editor's note— The city changed the month "December" to "September" to reflect the current practice in the city.
Section 6.34. - Property tax levies.
As the next order of business following adoption of the operating budget, the council shall levy by ordinance an annual tax on real and personal property within the City of Rossville. The tax rate set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the City of Rossville.
Section 6.35. - Additional appropriations.
The council may make appropriations in addition to those contained in the current operating budget, at any regular or special meeting called for such purpose, but any such additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies.
Section 6.36. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by city council but not later than ninety (90) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The council shall have power to accept with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health, or property of the inhabitants, when passed by two-thirds (⅔) vote of the membership of the council.
(b)
The council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing year not later than the 1st day of December of each year. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall elapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his recommendations thereon. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a vote of the council.
Sections 6.37—6.39. - Reserved.
Section 6.40. - Contracting procedures.
All contracts shall be made or authorized by the council, and no contracts shall bind the city unless reduced to writing and approved by the council. All contracts, and all ordinances or resolutions making contracts or authorizing the same, shall be drawn by the city attorney or shall be submitted to him before authorization by the council.
Section 6.41. - Centralized purchasing.
(a)
The council may by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the City of Rossville.
(b)
The council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Rossville for governmental or other purposes, at a public or private sale, with or without advertisement, for such consideration as it shall deem equitable and just for the city.
(c)
The council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(d)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city, a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
