ARTICLE 4. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Section 4.10. - Creation.
There is hereby established a Court to be known as the municipal court of the City of Rossville which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to punish also any person who may counsel or advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before said court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of court; to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the city constituting traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof. Said court shall be presided over by the judge of said court. In the absence or disqualification of the judge, the judge pro tem shall preside and shall exercise the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting. Should both the judge and judge pro tem become disqualified, then any member of the council may be designated to preside with the same powers and duties as the judge when so acting.
Section 4.11. - Judge.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge unless he shall have attained the age of thirty (30) years and is a high school graduate. The judge shall be appointed by the council and shall serve at the discretion of the council. The compensation of the judge shall be fixed by the council.
(b)
The judge pro tem shall serve in the absence of the judge, shall have the same qualifications as the judge, shall be appointed by the council, and shall take the same oath as the judge.
(c)
Before entering on duties of his office, the judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Rossville and for violation of its ordinances. The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed [a fine of] one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or thirty (30) days in jail. The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment for thirty (30) days or both, and as an alternative to fine or imprisonment, to sentence any offender upon conviction to labor in a city work gang or on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public works for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi, at least two (2) days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the City of Rossville, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a state law has been violated.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of said court.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoenas and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by state law.
(g)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Rossville granted by the state laws generally to mayor's, recorder's and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
Section 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the superior court of Walker County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the court of the ordinary. Provided that any person who fails to file his appeal within ten (10) days of the date of his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 4.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedure of the operation of the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for said court shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 (forty-eight) hours prior to said proceedings.
