ARTICLE 5. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Regular elections; time for holding.
Municipal elections for the City of Rossville shall be held on the first Saturday in December of each even-numbered year. At the municipal election in 1978, and at the municipal election each four (4) years thereafter a mayor shall be elected. At the municipal election in 1978, there shall be elected four (4) councilmen. The mayor and councilmen shall be elected by the voters of the entire city. At the 1978 election the four (4) candidates for councilmen receiving the highest number of votes cast in such election shall be elected as councilmen. The two (2) persons elected councilmen who receive the highest number of votes shall serve for an initial term of office of four (4) years each and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. The other two (2) persons elected as councilmen in the 1978 municipal election shall serve for initial terms of office of two (2) years each and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. Thereafter, all persons who are elected councilmen shall serve for terms of office of four (4) years each and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. All elections for mayor and councilmen shall be by a plurality vote. The terms of office for the mayor and councilmen and tax assessor or tax coordinator shall begin at the day and hour of taking the oath of office as provided for in article 2, section 2.30 of this charter.
(Ga. Laws 1977, Act No. 136, § 2)
Editor's note— The sentence providing for the election and term of a tax assessor beginning in the 19th line of this section was deleted by the city as the same is no longer applicable.
Section 5.11. - Qualifying; nomination of candidates; absentee ballots.
The council may, by ordinance, prescribe rules and regulations governing qualifying fees, nomination of candidates, absentee ballots, write-in votes, challenge of votes, and such other rules and regulations as may be necessary for the conduct of elections in the City of Rossville, Georgia.
Sections 5.12—5.19. - Reserved.
Section 5.20. - Applicability of general laws.
The procedures and requirements for election of all elected officials of the City of Rossville as to primary, special or general elections shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code approved April 4, 1968 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 885), as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.21. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the council or those remaining shall order a special election to fill the balance of the unexpired term of such office; provided, however, if such vacancy occurs within three (3) months of the expiration of the term of office of the mayor or any councilman, said vacancy in office shall be filled by appointment by the remaining members of the council. Both special elections and qualifications of candidates therefor shall conform to the applicable provisions of this charter and the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia 1933 as now or hereafter amended.
Sections 5.22—5.29. - Reserved.
Section 5.30. - Grounds for removal.
The mayor or any councilman shall be subject to removal from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
Wilful violation of any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(f)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by law.
Section 5.31. - Procedure for removal.
Removal of an elected officer from office may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By action of two-thirds (⅔) vote of the entire membership of the council. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the superior court of Walker County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the court of ordinary and with the right of a jury trial.
(b)
By information filed in the superior court of Walker County as provided by law.
Sections 5.32—5.39. - Reserved.
