Chapter 11 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Animals and fowl, Ch. 4; buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; business regulations, Ch. 6; offenses, Ch. 12; sewerage, Ch. 13; solid waste management, Ch. 16; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 17.
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 11-1. - Rubbish, dangerous walls, debris from burned building, smoke and noxious odors, etc., declared nuisance.
(a)
It shall be a nuisance per se for an owner of a lot that is vacant or that is not being used for the purpose of producing revenue to allow to remain on the premises piles of rubbish, partially burned timbers of a burned building, or unsightly and dangerous brick walls and it is a nuisance per se for the owner of any such lot to allow the debris from a burned building to remain on the premises, if in doing so water stands about the rubbish, the drainage not being such as to carry the water away speedily.
(b)
Anyone operating a boiler, furnace or other installation for the combustion of fuel for commercial purposes in the city shall provide an exit for the smoke or any noxious odors or fumes from the installation at an elevation of at least six (6) feet above the height of any building or structure within a radius of three hundred (300) feet. Any such installation operated in violation of this section shall be a nuisance per se and each day's continuance of the operation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1967, § 16-6)
Secs. 11-2—11-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2010-09, adopted Dec. 13, 2010, repealed former Art. II, §§ 11-26—11-35, and enacted a new Art. II as set out herein. Former Art. II pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1967, §§ 2-58—2-67 and Ord. of 8-12-02(1).

Sec. 11-26. - Complaint to be filed with clerk-treasurer.
If a public nuisance within the city be complained of by any person having the legal right so to complain, such complainant shall file with the city clerk-treasurer a written complaint against such nuisance and the person maintaining same. Such complaint must plainly, fully and distinctly set forth the nature of the nuisance, where located and by whom maintained, the latter party being designated as the respondent. If no private citizen is specially injured by a public nuisance such complaint may be filed by the city attorney on behalf of the public.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-27. - Nuisance defined generally; public nuisance defined.
(a)
A nuisance is anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but it shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable man. (O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1).
(b)
Nuisances are either public or private. A public nuisance is one which damages all persons who come within the sphere of its operation, though it may vary in its effects on individuals. A private nuisance is one limited in its injurious effects to one (1) or a few individuals. (O.C.G.A § 41-1-2).
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-28. - Presentation of complaint to public officer/building officer; issuance of complaint.
After a complaint authorized by this article has been filed with the clerk-treasurer, the clerk-treasurer shall deliver a copy of such complaint to the public officer or building officer, is a different person. The public officer/building officer shall forthwith make an investigation of the alleged public nuisance. If the officer's investigation identifies the possible existence of a public nuisance, the public officer may issue a complaint against the respondent and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the respondent according to section 11-28 hereof. The complaint shall state the nature of the alleged nuisance, the street address and official tax map reference of the property whereupon the nuisance is alleged to exist, identify the person by whom the alleged nuisance is maintained; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the respondent that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, at a date and time certain and at a place within the county or municipality where the alleged nuisance is located.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-29. - Service of summons and complaint.
A true and correct copy of the summons and complaint shall be served on said respondent by the public officer or building officer. Such service shall be perfected in the same manner as copies of common law suits and process thereto attached are served in the superior courts of the state. If notice cannot be personally served upon the respondent or if the respondent resides outside the city, service shall be perfected by publication in the manner in which service is perfected by publication in the superior courts of the state.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-30. - Hearing.
(a)
Such hearing shall be held not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days after notice to the respondent. The respondent shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(b)
The court shall, after notice to the respondent, on the date set hearing of such complaint, or at such subsequent date to which the hearing may be continued by the court, hear the case, and during such hearing or trial each party to the case shall have the right to offer any competent and relevant evidence on the issues involved.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-31. - Order of abatement.
If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that a public nuisance exists, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the respondent an order to abate such nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-10)
Sec. 11-32. - Abatement by city; collection of costs.
If the respondent fails to abate such nuisance within the time specified in such order, then the court shall cause an order to be issued, signed by the municipal court judge and directed to the chief of police, requiring such officer to abate the nuisance complained of, and such officer is authorized to employ such help in abating the nuisance as may be necessary and reasonable. The reasonable cost of the abatement of such nuisance shall be paid by the respondent, and, if the respondent shall fail or refuse to pay same, it shall be the duty of the city clerk-treasurer to issue an execution for such cost of the abatement in the form authorized by law against the respondent, which shall be delivered over to the chief of police, to be executed by such officer for the purpose of satisfying the amount of same and such additional legal cost as may accrue on same.
(Ord. No. 2010-09, 12-13-2010)
Sec. 11-33. - Abatement of bawdy house.
On complaint in writing, under oath, being made by any officer or citizen of the city to the municipal court judge alleging that a certain person, naming him, is guilty of a public nuisance by keeping a bawdy house in the city, describing the house, and that such nuisance should be abated, the municipal court judge shall appoint a day for hearing such complaint or charge and shall issue his warrant against such person complained of, commanding the chief of police or any police officer to arrest and have such person before the municipal court judge on the day appointed to answer the complaint. If it shall be proven on such trial that a prostitute, or a woman of ill fame, resides in the house with the person charged, or is in the habit of visiting said house, and the house is at the same time visited by men who do not reside in it, this shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of the charge. If upon trial the defendants be found guilty of the charge, it shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to render judgment against the defendants that they are guilty as charged and for all the costs of the whole proceeding and to make an order requiring the defendants within forty-eight (48) hours to abate such nuisance and abandon the house. If the defendants shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance or vacate the house, at the expiration of such forty-eight (48) hours, it shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to make an order requiring the chief of police to put the defendants and their property out of the house and the chief of police must forthwith execute such order.
Secs. 11-34—11-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOSQUITO CONTROL

Sec. 11-56. - Standing water and high grass prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause or permit within the corporate limits of the city any collection of standing water or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to breed (unless such collection of water is treated so as to effectually prevent such breeding) or any high grass, shrubbery or weeds in which mosquitoes might harbor or shelter.
(b)
Collections of water prohibited by this section shall include those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs (except horse or watering troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective house-roof gutters, tanks or flush toilets or other similar water containers.
(Code 1967, § 13-43)
Sec. 11-57. - Methods of treating to prevent mosquito breeding.
The methods of treatment of any collection of water prohibited by this article shall be approved by the accredited health officer and may be one (1) or more of the following:
(1)
Screening with wire netting of at least sixteen (16) meshes to the inch each way, or with any other material that will prevent the ingress and egress of mosquitoes.
(2)
Complete emptying every seven (7) days of unscreened containers, together with their thorough drying and cleaning.
(3)
Using a larvicide approved and applied under the direction of the health officer.
(4)
Covering completely the surface of the water with kerosene, petroleum or paraffin oil once in seven (7) days.
(5)
Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetation and other obstructions and stocking with mosquito destroying fish.
(6)
Filling and draining to the satisfaction of the health officer or his accredited representative.
(7)
Proper disposal by removal and destruction of tin cans, boxes, broken or empty bottles and similar articles likely to hold water.
(Code 1967, § 13-44)
Sec. 11-58. - Treatment by city.
Should the person responsible for conditions giving rise to the breeding or harboring of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent the same within twenty-four (24) hours after due notice has been given to him, the health officer, or his authorized agent, is hereby authorized to do so and all necessary costs incurred by him shall be a charge against the property owner or other person offending, as the case may be.
(Code 1967, § 13-45)
Sec. 11-59. - Authority of health officer.
For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, the health officer, or his accredited agent under his authority, may at all reasonable times enter in and upon any premises within his jurisdiction. Any person charged with any of the duties imposed by this article failing within the time designated by this article, or within the time stated in the notice of the health officer as the case may be, to perform or to carry out the measures necessary to the satisfaction of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 1-14 of this Code. Each day after the expiration of the aforesaid time that said person fails to comply with this article shall constitute a separate violation of this article.
(Code 1967, § 13-46)
Secs. 11-60—11-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - NOISE

Secs. 11-81—11-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - WEEDS

Sec. 11-101. - Definition.
As used in this article, the term "weeds" shall mean and include grass, weeds, bushes, poison ivy, poison oak or any other vegetation, except trees, ornamental shrubbery, flowers and garden vegetables.
(Code 1967, § 11-16)
Sec. 11-102. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful and constitute a nuisance for any person to permit weeds to grow to a height in excess of one (1) foot on any premises or vacant lot owned or occupied by him within the city.
(Code 1967, § 11-17)
Sec. 11-103. - Notice to cut.
(a)
Whenever weeds are found growing on any premises or vacant lot within the city to a height in excess of one (1) foot, the code enforcement officer shall give notice, in writing, to the owner or occupant thereof that such weeds must be cut within ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice.
(b)
The service of the notice provided for in this section shall be made as follows:
(1)
When the owner is a resident of the city, by personal service.
(2)
When the owner is not a resident of the city, by personal service upon the occupant of the property.
(3)
When the property is vacant and the owner does not reside within the city, by posting the notice on the property.
(c)
Any owner or occupant who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the terms of a notice served pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1967, § 11-18)
Sec. 11-104. - Cutting by city.
If an owner or occupant fails to comply with a notice served pursuant to this article, the city may cut, or cause to be cut, the weeds and shall charge the cost of same against the owner or occupant and such cost shall be a lien on the property to be collected as other debts are collected on liens enforced.
(Code 1967, § 11-19)
Sec. 11-105. - Tracts of five acres or more.
All tracts of land within the city which equal or exceed five (5) acres, and all contiguous vacant lots the combined area of which shall equal or exceed five (5) acres, shall be kept cut and maintained for a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the points where such tract or tracts borders any inhabited or improved property and fifty (50) feet from any dedicated street right-of-way.
(Code 1967, § 11-20)
Sec. 11-106. - Remedies cumulative.
The remedies provided for in this article shall be considered as cumulative of the remedies now provided by law for the abatement of nuisances and not in exclusion thereof.
(Code 1967, § 11-21)
