ARTICLE III. - FINANCE[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Any resolution or ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-14(2); any contract or obligation assumed by the county saved from repeal, § 1-14(3); any appropriation resolution or ordinance saved from repeal, § 1-14(7); any resolution or ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor saved from repeal, § 1-14(9); any resolution or ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code saved from repeal, § 1-14(14); jail fund, § 26-31 et seq.; taxation, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Multiyear lease, purchase or lease purchase contracts, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13; county finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-6; designation of depository, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-14; purchases through state, O.C.G.A. § 50-5-100 et seq.; power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II; power of expenditure, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ II.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Inasmuch as the provisions of Ord. No. 2016-01-01, adopted Jan. 11, 2016, were codified as a new division of Art. III, the existing provisions of said article have been redesignated Div. 1, Generally, at the editor's discretion, for purposes of clarity and preserving Code style.

Sec. 2-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Budget means a proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified programs, functions and activities during a fiscal year. The budget shall be prepared and organized so as clearly to reflect activities, programs and functions by fund.
Budget officer means the board of commissioners or their designee charged with budget preparation, administration and fiscal control of the government. Unless otherwise designated by the board of commissioners, the chief financial officer shall be the county official responsible for the preparation and implementation of the budget. In the absence of the chief financial officer or at the discretion of the board of commissioners, the county manager shall assume the responsibilities of the budget officer.
Budget resolution means the action of the board of commissioners which appropriates revenues for specific purposes, functions or activities for a budget or fiscal year. The budget resolution shall appropriate revenues by fund.
Fiscal year means that period which begins on July 1 and ends on the next succeeding June 30 of each year.
Fund means a fiscal and accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts recording cash and other financial resources, together with all related liabilities and residual balances, and changes therein, which are segregated for the purpose of carrying out specific activities or attaining certain objectives in accordance with specific regulations, restrictions or limitations.
Government means the county government and includes any county officer who is paid, in whole or in part, on a salary basis and over whom the board of commissioners exercises budgetary control.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 1; Res. of 3-11-2019, § 1; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 2-172. - Fiscal year.
The county shall operate on a fiscal year which shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of each upcoming year.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 2)
Sec. 2-173. - Adoption of budget.
The county shall prepare, introduce, approve and amend by resolution the budget passed by no less than a majority of the full membership of the board of commissioners.
(1)
Preparation, introduction and approval. In the course of the year, the chief financial officer shall prepare, in consultation with the county manager, the county clerk and the tax commissioner of Butts County, a budget timeline that shall be used as a general guide for the annual budget process, subject to amendment by same as circumstances may dictate. Said budget timeline shall include a date to be specified by the budget officer for the submission of the budget to the board of commissioners, as well as dates on which each constitutional officer, department head and each appropriate outside funded agency shall submit the budget requests of their agency for the upcoming fiscal year. The budget request shall be prepared by line item expenditures and shall include all pertinent, additional information as may be required or requested by the budget officer; and
(2)
The budget officer shall schedule appropriate work sessions with the requested departments and/or agencies with the board of county commissioners for the purpose of reviewing, discussing, revising and finalizing the budget for adoption; and
(3)
The budget officer shall be authorized to prepare the budget for any constitutional officer, department head or outside agency not complying with the budget resolution. The budget prepared by the budget officer under this section shall be construed to be the budget prepared by the elected official or department head and shall be binding and controlling for all purposes of the budgetary and financial administration of that office or department; and
(4)
The budget officer shall submit the proposed final budget to the board of commissioners as early as April 1 but no later than June 15 during the fiscal year preceding the year for which the budget is being adopted. The proposed budget shall be in writing and contain sufficient details to be incorporated into the county's budgetary-financial accounting systems; and
(5)
On the day the final budget proposal is submitted to the board of commissioners, a copy of the proposed budget shall be available at the county commissioner's office for public review and inspection in whatever format the chief financial officer deems sufficient to convey the required information. A statement advising the residents of the county of the availability of the budget document shall be published in the Legal Organ of the county. The statement advising of the availability of the budget shall also provide notice of the date, time and place of all budget hearings required by state law and the provisions of this article. This notice shall be published at least seven days prior to the date of the first budget hearing; and
(6)
At least one week prior to the formal adoption of the proposed budget, the board of commissioners shall conduct a public hearing at which any person desiring to be heard on the proposed budget may appear to give a statement or voice their concerns about the budget proposal, and additional public hearings will be held to the extent required by state law; and
(7)
The budget resolution shall be adopted at a public meeting which shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures set forth in state law governing the advertising of the same in force at the time; and
(8)
The county's budget shall not be adopted later than June 30 for each upcoming fiscal year unless newspaper publishing requirements or circumstances beyond the control of the county make the adoption of the budget go beyond the end of the fiscal year, in which case it may become necessary for the county to adopt a continuing resolution. Upon adoption, the budget shall constitute an appropriation for the purposes stated therein and an authorization of the amount to be levied for taxation purposes shall also be adopted and the digest submitted to the state for approval.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 3; Res. of 3-11-2019, §§ 2—7; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 2-174. - Amendments.
(a)
Nothing contained in this article shall preclude the county from amending its budget to address the changing needs of the county. Unless otherwise provided, amendments shall be made as follows:
(1)
Any increase in appropriation in any fund for a county department, whether accomplished through a change of anticipated revenues in any fund or through a transfer of appropriations among departments shall require approval of the majority of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Transfers of appropriations, in any fund amount, within the various accounts that comprise the budget of a county department, shall require the approval of the county manager or county finance officer, except that any transfers of appropriations within a county department which increases the salary appropriation shall require the approval of the majority of the board of commissioners.
(b)
Notice of the date, time and place for the amending of the budget shall be advertised in the local newspaper of general circulation in the county at least seven days prior to any formal action taken by the board of commissioners. The notice shall contain sufficient information and details to advise the citizens of the nature and purpose of the public hearing and proposed budget amendment. A copy of the proposed budget amendment shall be available in the county clerk's office for review by the public.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 4; Res. of 3-11-2019, § 8; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 2-175. - Budget message.
When introduced to the board of commissioners for approval, the proposed budget shall be accompanied by a budget message, prepared by the county manager, which shall explain the proposed budget in fiscal-financial terms. The budget message shall outline the proposed financial policies of the county for the ensuing fiscal year, described any important elements of the budget, indicate any significant changes from the previous county budget, describe the reasons for the changes, summarize the county's debt position and include any related information and materials outlining the complete synopsis of the financial condition of the county.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 5; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 2-176. - Budget format.
The county budget shall be prefaced by a general summary of its contents and present in detail all estimated revenues, including the proposed ad valorem tax levy, and all proposed expenditures by departments for the ensuing fiscal year. It shall be presented to show comparable figures for actual to date versus proposed figures and a history for the previous fiscal year.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 6; Res. of 3-11-2019, § 9)
Sec. 2-177. - Capital improvements program.
A three-year capital improvements program may be included in the final budget document, if the county elects to utilize and fund such a program. A listing of proposed capital improvements by county departments and methods of financing shall be reviewed as part of the proposed fiscal year budget and approved by the board of commissioners as part of the final approval process if such a program is utilized and funded.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 7; Res. of 3-11-2019, § 10)
Sec. 2-178. - Budget appropriations.
(a)
Under no circumstances may total appropriations exceed the total of the budgeted revenues for the proposed fiscal year.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision of federal and/or state laws, the board of commissioners may make emergency appropriations after the adoption of the budget for a purpose which was not foreseen at the time of formal adoption in order to meet a public emergency affecting the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county.
(c)
Every appropriation shall lapse at the close of the next succeeding year to the extent that has not been expended or encumbered.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(1), § 8)
Sec. 2-179. - Bid bond requirements.
The board of commissioners or the county administrator shall have the authority to require any person, business, corporation, partnership or other entity (referred to in this section collectively as "person") that desires to submit a bid or proposal to enter into any contract with the county to furnish a bid bond. When specified in writing as a requirement for a bid or proposal, all persons who submit a bid or proposal must furnish a bond in the amount of $10,000.00, which shall protect the county if the person submitting the bid or proposal fails to execute the contract. The bond shall provide that it shall be payable to the county immediately if the person awarded the contract fails to deliver a fully executed contract within 14 days after the date the board of commissioners awards the contract. The county administrator, in consultation with the county attorney, shall have the authority to approve or reject the surety on the bond. When a bid bond is required, any proposal or bid unaccompanied by a bid bond shall be rejected.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(2), § I)
Sec. 2-180. - Performance bond requirement.
The board of commissioners or the county administrator shall have the authority to require any person, business, corporation, partnership or other entity (referred to in this section collectively as "person") that is awarded a county contract to furnish a performance bond. Notice that a performance bond will be required of the successful bidder shall be stated in writing at the time the request for bids or proposals is made by the county. When required, the amount of the performance bond shall be 30 percent of the total amount or value of the bid or proposal through the duration of the contract, and all persons submitting a bid or proposal shall simultaneously submit a letter of commitment from a surety for the performance bond. Upon award of the contract, the performance bond must be delivered to the county within 30 days of the date the contract is awarded, or by the date that work/performance is commenced, whichever occurs first. The performance bond shall protect the county if the person awarded the contract fails to perform according to the terms of the contract. The county administrator, in consultation with the county attorney, shall have the authority to approve or reject the surety on the bond. At the discretion of the board of commissioners, an irrevocable letter of credit from any bank approved by the board of commissioners may be substituted for the performance bond. The board of commissioners shall also have the authority to require personal guarantees from any corporate officer whose corporation is awarded a contract with the county.
(Res. of 7-7-1997(2), § II)
DIVISION 2. - PURCHASING CARD POLICY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-01-01, §§ I—VII, adopted Jan. 11, 2016, has been codified as set out herein in § 2-181 et seq. at the county's direction.

Sec. 2-181. - Intent and scope.
This division is intended to comply with the policy requirements of O.C.G.A. § 36-80-24 regarding the use of county-issued government purchasing cards and credit cards.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § I, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-182. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Authorized elected official means an elected official designated by public vote of the board of commissioners to receive a county-issued government purchasing card or credit card.
Card administrator means the purchasing card and credit card administrator designated by the Butts Board of Commissioners.
County means Butts County and/or the board of commissioners
County purchase card, county p-card or county credit card means a financial transaction card issued by any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, used by a county official to purchase gods, services and other things of value on behalf of the county.
Financial transaction card means an instrument or device as the term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-9-30(5).
User agreement means the required agreement between the board of commissioners and the authorized elected officials which restricts the use of a county purchasing card or credit card.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § II, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-183. - Designated elected officials.
The Butts County Board of Commissioners ("county"), in its discretion, may authorize specific county elected officials to use a county purchasing card or credit card by adoption of a resolution in a public meeting.
No authorized elected official may use a county purchasing card or credit card until and unless he or she has executed the county's purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
The county will not make payments to any business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, for amounts charged by an elected official to any purchasing cards or credit cards that are not issued pursuant to this division or for any purchases that are not authorized by this division.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § III, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-184. - Card administrator.
The board of commissioners shall designate a county purchasing card and credit card administrator. The responsibilities of the card administrator include:
(1)
Manage county-issued purchasing cards and credit cards.
(2)
Serve as the main point of contact for all county purchasing card and credit card issues.
(3)
Serve as liaison to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff, as well as to the issuer of the purchasing card or credit card.
(4)
Provide training on card policies and procedures to the elected officials authorized to use a purchasing card or credit card and their staff.
(5)
Develop internal procedures to ensure timely payment of cards.
(6)
Assist authorized elected officials to dispute transactions when necessary.
(7)
Establish internal procedures to ensure compliance with this division, county procurement ordinances and policies, county purchasing card and credit card user agreements, applicable agreements with the business organization, financial institution, or any duly authorized agent of such organization or institution, issuing card, and state law, specifically, O.C.G.A. §§ 16-9-37 and 36-80-24.
(8)
Document internal controls, audits and other measures to prevent and detect misuse or abuse of the cards.
(9)
Audit and reconcile transactions monthly.
(10)
Maintain records for at least seven years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § IV, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-185. - Use of cards.
(a)
Authorized purchases.
(1)
County purchase cards and credit cards may be used to purchase goods and services directly related to the public duties of the authorized elected official only. All purchases are subject to the terms of this division, the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, county procurement policies and ordinances, and the adopted budget.
(2)
Only authorized elected officials may use a county purchase card or credit card for purchases or payments. The cards, and use of the cards, are not transferrable to employees. The authorized elected official shall use care to ensure that others do not have access to the card account number, expiration date and security code.
(3)
Unless otherwise approved by the governing authority or established in the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement, the transaction limits are as follows:
Per transaction: $ _______
Per month: $ _______
(b)
Unauthorized purchases. County purchasing cards and credit cards shall not be used for goods and services not directly related to the official responsibilities of the authorized elected official. Additionally, cards shall not be used to avoid compliance with the county's purchasing ordinances and procedures, to purchase goods and services that are not approved in the county's budget, to purchase goods and services exceeding the per transaction or per month limit, or to make purchases not in compliance with the county purchasing card and credit card user agreement.
(c)
Receipts and documentation. Receipts, invoices and other supporting documentation of all purchases made with a county purchasing card or credit card shall be obtained and maintained by the authorized county elected official for five years or as otherwise provided by the county's record retention policy. If an original or duplicate cannot be produced, a sworn affidavit of the authorized elected official may be substituted. The documentation must include the supplier or merchant information (i.e., name and location), quantity, description, unit price, total price, price paid without sales tax and an explanation of the purchase sufficient to show that the expense was in the performance of official county duties.
(d)
Public records. All receipt and other documentation of purchases are public records and subject to the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § V, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-186. - Review of purchases and audit.
Proper documentation of purchases, internal controls and other measures prevent and allow detection to misuse or abuse of county-issued purchase cards and credit cards. Authorized elected officials and staff that process payments under this program shall cooperate and comply with the procedures established by the county.
(1)
Review of purchases. All purchases shall be reviewed according to the following procedure: Each county elected official issued a county purchasing card and/or county credit card shall turn in all documentation of purchases to the card administrator no later than seven days prior to the card's payment due date, each month. The card administrator shall review the documentation of card purchases.
(2)
Audits. The card administrator shall perform an annual review of the card program to ensure adequacy of internal policies and procedures, cardholder spending limits, monthly reconciliation procedures and documentation for transactions. Elected officials and staff shall cooperate with such review.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § VI, 1-11-2016)
Sec. 2-187. - Violations.
(a)
An elected official shall reimburse the county for any purchases made with a county-issued purchase card or credit card in violation of this division or the user agreement.
(b)
In the discretion of the county governing authority, failure to comply with the procedures outlined in this division may result in:
(1)
A warning;
(2)
Suspension of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card; or
(3)
Revocation of the elected official's authority to use a county purchase card or credit card.
(c)
Nothing in this division shall preclude the county governing authority from referring misuse of a purchase card or credit card for prosecution to the appropriate authorities.
(Ord. No. 2016-01-01, § VII, 1-11-2016)
Secs. 2-188—2-210. - Reserved.
