Sec. 3.01.15. - General standards.
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
(a)
New construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
(b)
New construction and substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
(c)
New construction or substantial improvements of existing structures shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
(d)
Elevated buildings. All new construction or substantial improvements of existing structures that include any fully enclosed area located below the lowest floor formed by foundation and other exterior walls shall be designed so as to be an unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure. The enclosure shall be designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwater;
(1)
Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
a.
Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
b.
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
c.
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwater in both directions;
(2)
So as not to violate the "lowest floor" criteria of this ordinance, the unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure shall only be used for parking of vehicles, limited storage of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises, or entry to the elevated area; and
(3)
The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
(e)
All heating and air conditioning equipment and components (including ductwork) and all electrical, ventilation, plumbing, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
(f)
Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces;
(g)
New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
(h)
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
(i)
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
(j)
Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure which is not compliant with the provisions of this article shall be undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
