Sec. 3.01.14. - Duties and responsibilities of the administrator.
Duties of the zoning administrator shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(a)
Review proposed development to assure that the permit requirements of this article have been satisfied.
(b)
Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334. Require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file.
(c)
Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
(d)
When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been provided in accordance with section 3.01.06, then the zoning administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source in order to administer the provisions of this article.
(e)
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level (or highest adjacent grade) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures in accordance with section 3.01.13(b).
(f)
Review and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with section 3.01.13(b).
(g)
When flood-proofing is utilized for a structure, the zoning administrator shall obtain certification of design criteria from a registered professional engineer or architect in accordance with section 3.01.13(a)(3) and 3.01.16(b) or 3.01.18(b).
(h)
Make substantial damage determinations following a flood event or any other event that causes damage to structures in flood hazard areas.
(i)
Notify adjacent communities and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(j)
For any altered or relocated watercourse, submit engineering data/analysis within six months to the FEMA to ensure accuracy of community flood maps through the letter of map revision process. Assure flood-carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse is maintained.
(k)
Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the zoning administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. Any person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
(l)
All records pertaining to the provisions of this article shall be maintained in the office of the zoning administrator and shall be open for public inspection.
