CHAPTER 2 - ZONING DISTRICTS AND USES

Sec. 2.00.00. - Generally.
The use of buildings, structures, and land shall comply with the use requirements for zoning districts set forth in this UDO. Buildings, structures, or land shall be occupied or used only in conformity with all of the regulations set forth herein for the district in which it is located.
Sec. 2.01.00. - Establishment and purpose of zoning districts.
Sec. 2.01.01. - Official zoning map of Butts County, Georgia.
The official zoning map and official zoning block maps, Butts County, Georgia, are hereby designated to be section 2.01.01 of this Code. Any reference to the official map or official maps in this Code refers to the official zoning map and official zoning block maps, Butts County, Georgia. All properties within the unincorporated portions of Butts County, Georgia, shall be zoned as set forth on the official county zoning map and the official zoning block maps of the county, as amended from time to time. The official maps shall be kept under the custody of the community development department and shall be subject to public inspection. The official county zoning maps are incorporated in this ordinance by express reference.
Sec. 2.01.02. - Rural zoning districts.
A-R agricultural-residential. A-R zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet areas where the primary activities are those of farming, agriculture, livestock, timber cultivation, and related uses consistent with maintaining the land resources of Butts county reserved for these purposes. Residences of a low-density nature which are incidental to these activities are also permitted. These districts are free from other uses which are incompatible with a low-density, agricultural-residential neighborhood.
Sec. 2.01.03. - Residential zoning districts.
(a)
R-1 single-family residential—low density. R-1 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet, relatively low-density neighborhoods of single-family residences as desired by large numbers of people. These districts are free from other uses which are incompatible with single-family homes.
(b)
R-2 single-family residential—medium density. R-2 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet, relatively low-density neighborhoods of single-family residences as desired by large numbers of people, but at a higher density of development than that allowed in R-1 districts. These districts are free from other uses which are incompatible with single-family homes.
(c)
R-3 single-family residential—high density. R-3 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet neighborhoods of single-family residences of relatively high density. Required development standards permit stable, attractive residential neighborhoods to be established and preserved, while the higher permitted density reduces the costs of housing and the costs of providing services to them. The R-3 district is allowed only for existing housing and lots of record zoned R-3. It shall not be available for new developments, subdivisions or lots and shall not constitute an available zoning district for any landowner or applicant seeking re-zoning.
(d)
R-4 general residential. R-4 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet neighborhoods of single-family duplex and multi-family residences of relatively high density. Required development standards permit stable, attractive residential neighborhoods to be established and preserved, while higher permitted density reduces the costs of housing and the costs of providing services to them. The R-4 district is allowed only for existing housing and lots of record currently zoned R-4. It shall not be available for new developments, subdivisions or lots and shall not constitute an available zoning district for any landowner or applicant seeking re-zoning.
(e)
R-5 residential—manufactured home communities. R-5 zoning districts are intended to provide a place for manufactured housing communities, as more fully provided in, and subject to, the requirements of section 4.08.00.
(f)
R-M multi-family residential. R-M zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve quiet neighborhoods of multi-family residences of relatively high density. Required development standards permit stable, attractive residential neighborhoods to be established and preserved, while the higher permitted density reduces the costs of housing and the costs of providing services to them. R-M districts are permitted only where public water is provided.
Sec. 2.01.04. - Commercial, office, and institutional zoning districts.
(a)
O-1 office-residential. O-1 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve districts for lower density office activities with a mix of certain compatible residential activities also permitted. In many cases the O-1 district may be appropriate to provide a transition from residential uses where it is elected not to use a buffer for such purposes and where adequate space exists for such a transition area. O-1 district development standards require adequate setback space and off-street parking and service facilities. Permitted uses are restricted and protected from encroachment by uses capable of adversely affecting the limited character of the district.
(b)
C-1 commercial light/neighborhood. C-1 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve small business areas of a limited nature that serve primarily the residential neighborhood in which they are located. Development standards for C-1 districts are designed to promote compatibility with the surrounding residential neighborhood.
(c)
C-2 commercial—general/highway. C-2 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve business areas that are motor vehicle oriented, rather than pedestrian oriented. C-2 districts provide areas that are convenient and attractive for retail activities, business transactions, and services to the public designed primarily to meet the day-to-day shopping and service needs not only of residents of Butts County, but of surrounding communities as well. Off-street parking and minimum setbacks are required. These areas are more suburban in nature than of a "downtown" character.
Sec. 2.01.05. - Industrial zoning districts.
(a)
M-1 manufacturing—light. M-1 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which clean, low-intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of non-manufacturing activities from M-1 districts benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.
(b)
M-2 manufacturing—general. M-2 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which higher intensity manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of non-manufacturing activities from M-2 districts benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion.
(c)
M-3 manufacturing—heavy. M-3 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve physically and aesthetically desirable areas in which heavy manufacturing activities may locate and be protected from the intrusion of incompatible land uses. By having such areas available, both new and existing industries may operate and undertake expansion of facilities with the least possible adverse effect on other types of activities which might be incompatible with manufacturing. The elimination of non-manufacturing activities from M-3 districts benefits manufacturing activities by removing some possible obstacles to their smooth operation and expansion. M-3 districts are permitted only where frontage on an arterial street/road is available.
In regards to properties in the M-1, M-2 and M-3 zoning districts, no activity which is part of the principal use shall occur on the setback (i.e., where a recycling center is established, no part of the collection or storage of the recyclable materials shall occur in the setback).
Sec. 2.01.06. - Mixed use development district.
(a)
P-M planned development—mixed use. P-M zoning districts are intended to provide for planned developments with mixed use.
(b)
P-R planned development—residential. P-R zoning districts are intended to provide for planned residential communities which may include both residential use and commonly associated civic and public uses.
Sec. 2.01.07. - Zoning districts explained.
(a)
Districts are areas of land within Butts County to which different development requirements and standards are applied. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses, encourage sound land use patterns, and retain the character of the community. Although this ordinance establishes the locations of district boundaries, as indicated on the official map, the boundaries may be amended in the future in order to meet changing needs if facts are presented and accepted in support of such an amendment.
(b)
In making the decision to amend the boundary of a district, the standards for the exercise of the zoning power as well as the other specific criteria in the UDO should be considered by the planning and zoning commission as well as the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2.01.08. - Zoning districts and future development map relationship.
(a)
The Butts County comprehensive plan was prepared by the planning and zoning commission and adopted by the board of commissioners of Butts County. It should provide the best possible indication of desirable land use patterns that will meet projected future demand for land uses of various types. The Butts County land use plan supplies a body of information on which decisions on future development may be made that are guided by sound planning principles. The plan does not legally regulate land uses. It contains a land use map which shows suitable areas for various types of land uses. Actual land uses may not necessarily conform to the land use map.
(b)
The zoning districts contained on the official map carry standards which must be met by all new development and construction in the County. The arrangement of zoning districts is based on land use information contained in the Butts County comprehensive plan. Establishment and amendment of zoning district boundaries should be in conformance with the Butts County comprehensive plan. (This does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence.) This ensures that such amendments to the official map are based on defensible findings of fact as well as sound comprehensive planning principles.
Sec. 2.02.00. - Land uses permitted in each zoning district.
Sec. 2.02.01. - Generally.
The following table of permitted uses is hereby adopted. No principal use shall be established on any property unless it is shown as permitted, by right or subject to special use approval, for the applicable zoning district on the table of permitted uses. A "P" on the table of permitted uses means that the listed use is permitted in the particular zoning classification. An "SU" on the table of permitted uses means that the use is permitted in the particular zoning district as a special use. Uses shown as permitted by right or by special use are subject to the regulations and restrictions provided in this UDO.
Sec. 2.02.02. - Table of permitted uses.
EXPAND
Uses and Structures A-R R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-M P-M P-R O-1 C-1 C-2 M-1 M-2 M-3
Acid storage and manufacturing SU
Adult entertainment establishment (subject to the county's adult amusements and entertainment ordinance) P P
Agriculture P P P P
Airports SU
Airstrip, private SU
Ambulance or emergency service SU
Amusement or recreational activities commercial P P P P
Animal hospital, commercial kennels, veterinary clinic or animal boarding place SU SU P P
Animal processing facility SU
Antenna: Satellite, television, radio, etc. P P P P P P P
Apothecary (drug sales only) P P
Armory SU P P
Auto parts and tire stores P P P
Automobile, construction and commercial vehicle dealers (includes rental)
a. Automobile, light truck and motorcycle dealers
b. Antique auto dealers
c. Commercial truck dealers
d. Heavy equipment dealers
e. Farm equipment dealers
f. Motor home and recreational vehicle dealers
g. All-terrain vehicle (ATV), golf cart and snowmobile dealers
h. Boat and watercraft dealers
i. Aircraft dealers
j. Utility trailer dealers P
Automobile washateria P
Baking establishment P
Bank and financial institutions P
Bar, tavern, or nightclub P P
Batching plant P SU SU
Bed and breakfast inn P P
Boardinghouse or roominghouse P P
Book binding, printing, engraving, blueprinting, photostatting, letter shop P P P P
Bottling plant P P
Building contractor and related activities: Sale and storage of building supplies and materials P P
Bulk petroleum plant P
Bulk storage SU SU SU SU
Business offices such as insurance and real estate offices, where the nature of the business is primarily that of personal service P P
Business or commercial school P
Business service centers P P
Cabinet shop P P
Campground/recreational vehicle park SU
Carnival, rodeo, horse show or athletic event, community fair or other event of interest to the public (subject to special event permit requirement) P
Cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris manufacture P
Cemetery SU P
Ceramic products manufacture, limited to use of electric kilns P
Church, synagogue, chapel, or other place of religious worship P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Clinic P P P
Clothing and dry good stores P P
Club or lodge P P P P
Cold storage, ice plant, or freezer locker P P
College, university, or private school P P
College or university with dormitories, fraternity and/or sorority houses, when located on main campus SU
Commercial livestock processing P
Commercial or large scale slaughter of animals SU
Congregated personal care home P P P
Cosmetic and pharmaceuticals manufacturing P P
Crematory SU
Cultural facilities P P
Dairy plant, ice cream manufacturing P P
Dance school or studio P P
Day care center P
Deck, patio, barbecue grill, or other such facility P P P P P P P
Department stores P P
Distillation of bones, coal, petroleum, animal refuse, grain, tar, and wood SU
Distilleries and breweries P P
Distribution of products or merchandise P P
Drive-in restaurants P P
Drive-in theater SU P P
Drug stores P P
Dry cleaning or laundering establishment SU P P P
Dwelling, apartment; dwelling, cluster; dwelling, condominium; dwelling, garden apartment; dwelling, multiple-family; dwelling, patio; dwelling, single-family attached; and dwelling, townhouse subject to the limitation that no more than 40 percent of the total housing units shown in the approved development plan shall consist of any one type or combination of the specified dwelling types P P P
Dwelling, industrialized housing P P P P P P P P P
Dwelling, single-family detached P P P P P P P
Dwelling, two-family P P P P
Dwelling, manufactured homes P P P
Education or training facility P P P
Electrical appliance and equipment sales and repair P P
Electronic manufacturing and assembly P P
Experimental laboratory SU SU
Explosives, including fireworks manufacture or storage in bulk quantities SU
Fabricating shop such as woodworking or sheet metal shop P P
Family personal care home P P P P P P P
Farmers market SU SU SU
Fat rendering, production of fats and oils from animals or vegetable products by boiling or distillation SU
Feed, grain, or fertilizer manufacture or storage P
Feed, grain, or fertilizer wholesaling and storage P P
Feed, seed, and insecticides and fertilizer retail sales P P P P
Flower shop P P
Food processing plant P
Food stores P P
Foundry or forging of iron, steel, brass, copper, and other metals SU SU
Fraternities and sororities SU
Freezer lock service, ice storage P P P P
Freight express office P
Fueling center P P
Funeral home P P
Garbage, waste animal parts, dead animal reductions or dumping SU
Garden, noncommercial P P P P P P P P
Garden, commercial P
Gas station P P P
Gasoline storage terminal P
Glass sales and storage P P P P
Glue, size, or gelatin manufacture SU
Golf course, planned as an integral part of the planned residential development P
Golf course—Public or private SU
Grain elevator P
Greenhouse and plant nursery (commercial) SU P P P P
Group care home (six or less residents) P P P P P P P P P
Group care home (more than six residents) P P P P
Gun store P P
Heavy agricultural equipment sales and repair P
Heavy manufacturing SU SU
Home furnishings and hardware P P P P
Home occupation, Type I P P P P P P P P P
Home occupation, Type II SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU
Hospital SU P P
Hotels P
Ice manufacture, including dry ice plant P
Immediate family member housing SU
Incinerators, commercial SU
Intermediate care home P P P
Intermediate care home, nursing home, or personal care home P
Junkyard and salvage yards SU
Kennel SU
Laboratory serving professional requirements—Medical, dental P P P
Landfill SU
Launderette or washateria P P
Library SU P P
Light manufacturing SU
Locksmith, gunsmith P P P
Lumber yard, coal storage yards, or other storage not specifically listed in this column P P
Machine shop P P
Manufactured home for temporary hardship meeting the development standards contained in chapter 54 of the Code of Ordinances SU SU SU SU SU
Manufacturing activity which does not cause injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions P P
Manufacturing activity which may cause noise, vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazard, or other objectionable conditions SU SU
Manufacturing in connection with the principal retail business or service on the lot P
Marinas SU SU
Medical, dental, or similar clinic P P P
Mineral exploration (commercial) SU
Motels P
Motor vehicle impound lot P
Motorized race tracks SU SU SU
Music teaching studio (also see home occupation) SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU P P
Neighborhood dry-cleaning plants P SU
Newspaper or magazine publication and distribution P P P
Nondepository credit intermediation businesses as specified under 2002 and 2007 NAICS Code 522298 SU
Nursery school, day care center SU P P P
Nursing home P P P P
Off-street parking lot or parking garage, automobile, being the primary use on the lot P P
Office P
Office equipment sales and service P P
Offices, enclosed retail trade establishments, and personal service establishments P
Organized camp program SU
Paint, oil shellac, turpentine, or varnish manufacture SU
Paper mills, chemical pulp manufacture SU
Parking of one unoccupied RV and one pleasure boat P P P P P
Parking of one unoccupied travel trailer, motor coach, or pleasure boat P P
Parks and playgrounds P P P P P P P
Pawn shops P
Personal service shops P P
Pest control P P P
Petroleum bulk dist. P P
Photography studio SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU SU P P
Planing or saw mill P
Plumbing shop, other contractor, including open storage of materials when located in rear setback P P
Potash works SU
Poultry processing plant P SU
Printing, publishing, reproducing establishment P P P
Private garage or carport not to exceed the storage capacity of three automobiles per dwelling unit P P P P P P P
Private swimming pool and bathhouse or cabana P P P P P P P
Private tennis court and/or basketball facilities. If lighted, lights must be designed so that they do not intrude upon adjacent lots. Such a court may be surrounded by a fence up to ten feet high. P P P P P P P
Professional or business office meeting the following development standards: No wholesale or retail merchandise may be offered for sale. P
Public buildings, structures, and uses P
Public garage P P
Publicly owned and operated park or recreation area P P P P P P P P
Race tracks and similar amusement or recreational activities (commercial), carried on outside a building which produce noise and/or noxious fumes, such as drag racing strips, race tracks, motorcycle races or ATV (all terrain vehicle) courses, and uses of a similar nature SU SU
Radio or television tower SU
Radio or television transmission tower over 35 feet high SU SU
Radio station P
Radio transmission tower less than 35 feet high P
Railroad classification and repair yard P SU
Railroad freight station SU SU SU
Railroad or bus passenger station P P P
Railroad setback P
Raising or sale of livestock P SU SU
Recovered materials processing and solid waste handling facilities SU
Recreation area owned, operated, and maintained by the owner(s) of the permitted use, exclusively for the use of residents and their guests P P P P P P P P
Recycling center P
Repair garage; paint and body shop SU P P
Residential manufactured housing sales room and sales lot P
Restaurants and food catering service P P
Retail business, other SU SU
Retail or service business greater than 45,000 gross square feet SU
Retail or service business greater than 150,000 gross square feet SU
Retail uses in conjunction with and normally appurtenant to office/institutional uses, including florist shop, cafeteria, snack shop, pharmacy, or gift shop when located within an office or medical building P
Roadside stands for sale of agricultural products grown on the premises, but not to exceed 500 square feet in floor area P
Rock, sand, or gravel distribution or storage P
Roofing operation P
Satellite dish antennas and television antennas P
School—Elementary, middle, high—Public or private, kindergarten SU P P P
Scrap metal processor SU
Self-storage facility SU P P P
Shell home display yards P
Shooting range, indoor P P P P
Shooting range, outdoor SU
Shrubbery sales SU P P P
Sign painting and fabricating shop P P
Smelting of tin, copper, zinc, or iron ores SU
Solar power facilities SU SU SU SU
Solid waste landfill or incineration SU
Spa, massage parlor, or other personal care services as specified under 2007 NAICS Code 812199. These include:
a. Baths, steam or Turkish
b. Color consulting services (i.e., personal care services)
c. Day spas
d. Depilatory (i.e., hair removal) salons
e. Ear piercing services
f. Electrolysis (i.e., hair removal) salons
g. Hair removal (i.e., depilatory, electrolysis) services
h. Hair replacement services (except by offices of physicians)
i. Hair weaving services
j. Make-up salons, permanent
k. Massage parlors
l. Saunas
m. Scalp treating services
n. Steam baths
o. Sun tanning salons
p. Tanning salons
q. Tattoo parlors
r. Turkish bathhouses
s. Turkish baths SU SU
Special events facility P P
Specialty shops P P
Talon, grease, or lard manufacture or refining from or of animal fat SU
Tanning, curing, or storage of raw hides or skins SU
Tattoo parlors SU
Taxi services or related services as specified under 2002 and 2007 NAICS Code 485310 SU
Taxidermist SU P
Textile manufacturing plant SU SU
Theatre P P
Tinsmith operation P
Tire recapping SU SU
Truck stop P P
Truck terminal P
Upholstery shop P P P
Use requiring a license for removal of asbestos-containing material SU
Use requiring a state permit for the collection, transfer, or disposal of radioactive equipment, supplies, etc. SU
Use requiring a state permit for the collection, transfer, or disposal of solid waste SU
Use requiring a state permit for the generation, transport, storage, treatment, and/or disposal of hazardous waste SU
Use requiring a state permit for the storage of petroleum products or certain chemicals underground SU
Use requiring an EPD wastewater discharge permit SU
Utility substation P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P
Vehicle storage yard, being the primary use on the lot P P P
Wholesale and warehousing operation P P
  (Ord. of 4-12-2021(1), § 1; Ord. of 5-24-2021, § 1.B.; Ord. of 6-14-2021(2), § 1; Ord. of 6-14-2021(4), § 1)
Sec. 2.02.03. - Dimensional standards for building height and location.
The following table of lot standards shows the minimum lot size; minimum floor area per dwelling unit; minimum lot width; minimum front yard setback from right-of-way of street for arterial streets, collector streets, and other streets; minimum side setback; maximum building height; and minimum rear setback for lots in each zoning classification. No lot shall be used or created in a manner that violates any of the regulations shown in the table of lot standards for that lot's particular zoning classification, except by grant of variance.
EXPAND
A-R R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-M P-R 14 O-1 C-1 C-2 M-1 M-2 M-3
Minimum lot size 3 acres ¾ acre 1 acre 4 1 acre 4 1 acre 1 acre ½ acre Without public water:
1 acre 4
With public water:
¾ acre 7 Without public water:
1 acre 4
With public water:
¾ acre 7 Without public water:
1 acre 4
With public water:
¾ acre 7 1 acre 4 1 acre 4 1 acre
Minimum floor area per dwelling unit (in square feet) 1,500 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 for site-built, single-family at-
tached;
750 all others 1,200 for site-built, single-family at-
tached;
750 all others 1,200 for site-built, single-family at-
tached;
750 all others Duplex dwellings: 750
1,050 all others 1,050 Produce stands: 200
1,050 all others 1,050 1,050 1,050
Minimum lot width (in feet) 200 125 150 80 60 60 60 100 100 100 100 100 150
Minimum front yard setback from right-of-way of street for:
A: Arterial streets 100 1 100 1 100 1 80 1 75 1 75 1 75 1 100 1 100 1 100 1 100 1 100 10
B: Collector streets 100 1 80 1 80 1 50 1 50 1 50 1 50 1 80 1 80 1 80 1 80 1 100 10 200
C: Other streets 100 1 55 1 55 1 50 1 50 1 50 1 50 1 55 1 55 1 55 1 55 1 100 10
Minimum side setback (in feet) 30 15 15 15 6 6 15 15 15 15 15 11 13
Maximum building height (in feet) 35 2 35 3 35 3 35 3 35 3 35 3 35 35 3 35 3 35 2 35 2, 15 35 2, 15 35 2, 15
Minimum rear setback (in feet) 50 30 30 30 5 30 5 30 5 30 30 30 30 30 12 13
   1. The front of all buildings must be at least 35 feet from the front property line.
2. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required setbacks must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 35 feet.
3. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation, except for satellite, television, and radio antennas, to which this limit does apply. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required setbacks must be increased one foot for every two feet (or part of two feet) of height greater than 35 feet.
4. A lot of record lawfully existing at the time of passage of this ordinance and having an area of less than one acre (nonconforming) may nevertheless be developed with a use which is permitted within this district if approved by the Butts County health department.
5. If abutting a stream, 100 feet from the stream bank.
6 Total for both side yards of 20 feet (for example, side yards of ten feet and ten feet, or side yards of five feet and 15 feet, or side yards of ten feet or less). If the side lot line adjoins an R-1 or R-2 district, the minimum required side yard is 30 feet, regardless of the type of wall.
7 A lot of record lawfully existing at the time of passage of this ordinance and having an area of less than three-quarters of an acre (non-conforming) may nevertheless be developed with a use which is permitted within this district if approved by the Butts County health department.
8 The front of all buildings must be at least 75 feet from the front property line.
9 The front of all buildings must be at least 50 feet from the front property line.
10 The front of all buildings must be at least 100 feet from the front property line.
11 Fifteen feet, unless abutting a district other than M-1, M-2, or M-3. In that case, the minimum setback is 100 feet.
12 Thirty feet, unless abutting a district other than M-1, M-2 or M-3. In that case, the minimum setback is 100 feet.
13 Fifty feet, unless abutting an M-1, M-2 or M-3 district. In that case, the minimum setback is 200 feet.
14 These minimum standards apply unless there is an approved plan for development of the property as a P-R district, in which case the minimum standard specified by the approved plan will apply.
15 The maximum building height may be raised to 55 feet if the Butts County fire marshal so approves based upon a finding that an appropriate fire suppression system is provided for the facility and the zoning administrator determines that the additional height shall not unduly impact the surrounding community.
