PART I - RELATED LAWS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This Part I is a compilation of local legislation enacted by the Georgia General Assembly which was deemed advisable to print. Enacting language has been deleted from each act printed herein. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1941 Ga. Laws, page 793, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1. - Creation; composition.
There is hereby created a Board of Commissioners of Butts County, Georgia. The Board shall consist of 3 members who shall be qualified voters of the county and legally qualified to hold public office, one of whom shall be elected by the electors of Butts County as Chairman of the Board of Commissioners. Not more than one of the members of the Board of Commissioners shall be eligible to hold any other office or employment of the county during any period of time.
(1949 Ga. Laws, page 191, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 793, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of the city's charter was repealed in its entirety by 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3065, § 2.
Sec. 3. - Election of members; terms.
(a)
Beginning with the general election for members of the Board of Commissioners held in 1980 for terms beginning January 1, 1981, the members of the Board of Commissioners shall be elected to posts, to be designated Post No. 1, Post No. 2, and Post No. 3, respectively. All members shall be elected from the county at large and shall reside within the county. The member elected to represent Post No. 1 shall be the Chairman of the Board of Commissioners.
(b)
The term of office of members of the Board of Commissioners shall be for four years and until the election and qualification of their successors.
(c)
The members of the Board of Commissioners of Butts County in office on the effective date of this Act shall remain in office until the election and qualification of their successors.
(d)
The member elected to Post 3 in 1984 shall serve for a term of two years and until his successor is elected and qualified. A member shall be elected to Post 3 in 1986 and quadrennially thereafter; and the terms of all such members shall be for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1977 Ga. Laws, page 3065, § 3; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4790, § 1)
Sec. 3A. - Composition; election districts; member qualifications; vacancies; election of chairperson; quorum; compensation.
(a)
The provisions of this section shall supersede any provisions of this Act to the contrary in effect on January 1, 1985, or on January 1, 1994.
(b)
The Board of Commissioners of Butts County shall consist of five members to be elected from single member districts as provided in this section.
(c)
For the purpose of electing the members of the board, Butts County is divided into five single member districts as follows:
Commissioner District No. 1: Being located in the Eastern and Southeastern portion of Butts County, Georgia, and being bounded as follows: The Point of Beginning shall be where Georgia Highway No. 36 intersects with the Butts County - Newton County Line. From this Point of Beginning Southwest along Georgia Highway No. 36 until it intersects with Jim McMichael Road (County Road No. 68); thence South along Jim McMichael Road (County Road No. 68) until it intersects with Four Points Road (County Road No. 295); thence East along Four Points Road (County Road No. 295) until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence East along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) until it intersects with Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292); thence South along Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292) until it intersects with Pratt Smith Road (County Road No. 87); thence South along Pratt Smith Road (County Road No. 87) until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with McCoy Road (County Road No. 117); thence Southwest along McCoy Road (County Road No. 117) until it intersects with the Southern Railroad; thence Southeast along the Southern Railroad until it intersects with the City Limits of the City of Flovilla; thence East, Southeast, and West along the City Limits of the City of Flovilla to the intersection of Beaty Road (County Road No. 139) and Cenie Road (County Road No. 139); thence West along Cenie Road (County Road No. 139) until it intersects with State Highway No. 42; thence South along State Highway No. 42 until it intersects with Mount Vernon Church Road (County Road No. 136); thence West along Mount Vernon Church Road (County Road No. 136) until it intersects with Mountain View Road (County Road No. 135); thence North along Mountain View Road (County Road No. 135) until it intersects with Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296); thence North along Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296) until it intersects with East Ball Road (County Road No. 297); thence West and North along East Ball Road (County Road No. 297) until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence Southwest along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with the Butts County - Lamar County Line; thence East along Butts-Lamar County Line to intersection of Monroe County Line, thence East along Butts-Monroe County Line to intersection of Jasper County Line, thence North along Butts-Jasper County Line to intersection of Newton County Line, thence North along Butts-Newton County Line to the Point of Beginning.
Commissioner District No. 2: Being located in the East central portion of Butts County, Georgia, and being bounded as follows: The Point of Beginning shall be where Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292) intersects State Highway No. 16 East of the City of Jackson. From this Point of Beginning East along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with McCoy Road (County Road No. 117); thence Southwest along McCoy Road (County Road No. 117) until it intersects with the Southern Railroad; thence Southeast along the Southern Railroad until it intersects with the City Limits of the City of Flovilla; thence East, Southeast, and West along the City Limits of the City of Flovilla to the intersection of Beaty Road (County Road No. 139) and Cenie Road (County Road No. 139); thence West along Cenie Road (County Road No. 139) until it intersects with State Highway No. 42; thence South along State Highway No. 42 until it intersects with Mount Vernon Church Road (County Road No. 136); thence West along Mount Vernon Church Road (County Road No. 136) until it intersects with Mountain View Road (County Road No. 135); thence North along Mountain View Road (County Road No. 135) until it intersects with Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296); thence North along Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296) until it intersects with Aboothiacoosta Creek; thence East along Aboothiacoosta Creek until it intersects with Town Branch; thence Northwest along Town Branch until it intersects with the City Limits of the City of Jackson; thence East and North along the City Limits of the City of Jackson until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16, entering the City Limits of the City of Jackson, until it intersects with Georgia Avenue; thence North along Georgia Avenue until it intersects with First Avenue; thence West along First Avenue until it intersects with Alabama Boulevard; thence North along Alabama Boulevard until it intersects with Mitchell Street; thence West along Mitchell Street until it intersects with Sherrill Street; thence North along Sherrill Street until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence Southwest along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence South along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with Pine Street; thence West along Pine Street until it intersects with Glynn Street; thence North and Northwest along Glynn Street until it intersects with Mulberry Street; thence North along Mulberry Street until it intersects with Glynn Street; thence Northwest along Glynn Street until it intersects with Oak Street; thence South along Oak Street until it intersects with Slaughter Street; thence West along Slaughter Street until it intersects with Chestnut Drive; thence North along Chestnut Drive until it intersects with Carter Avenue; thence West along Carter Avenue until it intersects with Oakland Circle; thence Southwest along Oakland Circle until it intersects with McDonough Road; thence Northwest along McDonough Road until it intersects with Watson Creek; thence East along Watson Creek until it intersects with Yellow Water Creek; thence East along Yellow Water Creek until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence Southwest along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) to the intersection of Moore Road (County Road No. 85); thence East and South along Moore Road (County Road No. 85) until it intersects with Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292); thence Southwest along Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292) to the Point of Beginning.
Commissioner District No. 3: Being located in the Southwestern portion of Butts County, Georgia, and being bounded as follows: The Point of Beginning shall be where State Highway No. 36 intersects with the Butts County - Lamar County Line. From this Point of Beginning Northeast along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with East Ball Road (County Road No. 297); thence South and East along East Ball Road (County Road No. 297) until it intersects with Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296); thence North along Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296) until it intersects with Aboothiacoosta Creek; thence East along Aboothiacoosta Creek until it intersects with Town Branch; thence Northwest along Town Branch until it intersects with the City Limits of the City of Jackson; thence East and North along the City Limits of the City of Jackson until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16, entering the City Limits of the City of Jackson, until it intersects with Seventh Street; thence South along Seventh Street until it intersects with Main Street; thence Northwest along Main Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Lyons Street; thence Northwest along Lyons Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence South along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Route No. 16 until it intersects with Oak Street; thence South along Oak Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence South along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296); thence South along Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296) until it intersects with Co-op Way; thence West along Co-op Way until it intersects with State Highway No. 36 and the City Limits of the City of Jackson; thence West, North, West, and North along the City Limits of the City of Jackson until it intersects with Harkness Street; thence East along Harkness Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Interstate Highway 75; thence North along Interstate Highway 75 until it intersects with the Butts County - Spalding County Line; thence South along the Butts-Spalding County Line until it intersects with the Lamar County Line; thence East along the Butts-Lamar County Line to the Point of Beginning.
Commissioner District No. 4: Being located in the West central portion of Butts County, Georgia, and being bounded as follows: The Point of Beginning shall be where High Falls Road (County Road No. 291) intersects with State Highway No. 16 East of the City of Jackson. From this Point of Beginning, North along High Falls Road (County Road No. 291) until it intersects with the Town Limits of the Town of Jenkinsburg; thence Southeast along the Town Limits of the Town of Jenkinsburg until it intersects with Shiloh Road (County Road No. 93); thence South along Shiloh Road (County Road No. 93) until it intersects with Yellow Water Creek; thence East along Yellow Water Creek until it intersects with Walter Moore Road (County Road No. 211); thence North along Walter Moore Road (County Road No. 211) until it intersects with State Highway No. 42; thence Southeast along State Highway No. 42 until it intersects with Watson Creek; thence East along Watson Creek until it intersects with McDonough Road; thence Southeast along McDonough Road until it intersects with Oakland Circle; thence Northeast along Oakland Circle until it intersects with Carter Avenue; thence East along Carter Avenue until it intersects with Chestnut Drive; thence South along Chestnut Drive until it intersects with Slaughter Street; thence East along Slaughter Street until it intersects with Oak Street; thence North along Oak Street until it intersects with Glynn Street; thence Southeast along Glynn Street until it intersects with Mulberry Street; thence South on Mulberry Street until it intersects with Glynn Street; thence Southeast on Glynn Street until it intersects with Pine Street; thence East along Pine Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence North along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence Northeast along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) until it intersects with Sherrill Street; thence South along Sherrill Street until it intersects with Mitchell Street; thence East along Mitchell Street until it intersects with Alabama Boulevard; thence South along Alabama Boulevard until it intersects with First Avenue; thence East along First Avenue until it intersects with Georgia Avenue; thence South along Georgia Avenue until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence East along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Seventh Street; thence South along Seventh Street until it intersects with Main Street; thence Northwest along Main Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Lyons Street; thence Northwest along Lyons Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence South along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Oak Street; thence South along Oak Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence South along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects with Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296); thence South along Brownlee Road (County Road No. 296) until it intersects with Co-op Way; thence West along Co-op Way until it intersects with State Highway No. 36 and the City Limits of the City of Jackson; thence West, North, West, and North along the City Limits of the City of Jackson until it intersects with Harkness Street; thence East along Harkness Street until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence West along State Highway No. 16 back to the Point of Beginning.
Commissioner District No. 5: Being located in the Eastern and Northern portion of Butts County, Georgia, and being bounded as follows: The Point of Beginning shall be where Interstate Highway 75 intersects the Butts County - Spalding County Line. From this Point of Beginning South along Interstate Highway 75 until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence East along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with High Falls Road (County Road No. 291); thence North along High Falls Road (County Road No. 291) until it intersects with the Town Limits of the Town of Jenkinsburg; thence Southeast along the Town Limits of the Town of Jenkinsburg until it intersects with Shiloh Road (County Road No. 93); thence South along Shiloh Road (County Road No. 93) until it intersects with Yellow Water Creek; thence East along Yellow Water Creek until it intersects with Walter Moore Road (County Road No. 211); thence North along Walter Moore Road (County Road No. 211) until it intersects with State Highway No. 42; thence Southeast along State Highway No. 42 until it intersects with Watson Creek; thence East along Watson Creek until it intersects with Yellow Water Creek; thence East along Yellow Water Creek until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence Southwest along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) to the intersection of Moore Road (County Road No. 85); thence East and South along Moore Road (County Road No. 85) until it intersects with Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292); thence Southwest along Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292) until it intersects with State Highway No. 16; thence East along State Highway No. 16 until it intersects with Pratt Smith Road (County Road No. 87); thence North along Pratt Smith Road (County Road No. 87) until it intersects with Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292); thence North along Halls Bridge Road (County Road No. 292) until it intersects with Stark Road (County Road No. 289); thence West along Stark Road (County Road No. 289) until it intersects with Jim McMichael Road (County Road No. 68); thence North along Jim McMichael Road (County Road No. 68) until it intersects with State Highway No. 36; thence Northeast along State Highway No. 36 until it intersects the Butts County - Newton County Line; thence Northwest along the Butts-Newton County Line until it intersects with the Henry County Line; thence Southwest along the Butts-Henry County Line until it intersects with the Spalding County Line; thence Southwest along the Butts-Spalding County Line to the Point of Beginning.
(d)
One member shall be elected to the board from each of the five commissioner districts. Only the qualified electors residing within a commissioner district shall vote for a candidate for election to the board from such commissioner district and election shall be solely by the vote of the electors who reside within the respective commissioner district.
(e)
Each candidate for election to the board from a commissioner district shall be a resident of the commissioner district for which such person seeks election. All members of the board shall meet the qualifications for office set forth in O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1.
(f)
Pursuant to a consent decree and order entered on June 10, 1993, in the case of Duffey, et al. v. Butts County Board of Commissioners, et al., in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia, Macon Division, Civil Action No. 92-233-3-MAC (WDO), a special election was held for certain members of the board and all of the members of the board shall be elected, shall take office, and shall have terms of office as follows:
(1)
The members of the board elected in such special election from Commissioner District No. 1, Commissioner District No. 2, and Commissioner District No. 5 shall have terms of office expiring when their respective successors take office on the first Monday in January, 1997;
(2)
The member from former Commissioner District No. 3 shall represent Commissioner District No. 3 and shall have a term of office expiring when such member's successor takes office on the first Monday in January, 1995; and
(3)
The member from former Commissioner District No. 5 shall represent Commissioner District No. 4 and shall have a term of office expiring when such member's successor takes office on the first Monday in January, 1995.
Following the initial terms of office specified in this subsection, all members of the board shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of the respective terms of office, shall take office on the first Monday in January immediately following their respective elections, and shall have terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified and take office.
(g)
In the event a vacancy occurs on the Board of Commissioners of Butts County for any reason other than the expiration of a term of office, the vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540 et seq. and O.C.G.A. § 36-5-21 and the residency requirements set out in this section. In the event a member moves his or her residence from the commissioner district he or she represents, a vacancy shall exist from such district and shall be filled in the same manner as other vacancies are filled.
(h)
At the first regular meeting of the board of commissioners in January of each year, the members of the board shall select, by majority vote, one of their number to serve as chairperson of the board.
(i)
Three members of the board of commissioners shall constitute a quorum to conduct and transact business as a board.
(j)
Each person elected and qualified to hold office as a member of the board of commissioners elected from a district shall receive the same annual compensation and allowances as is now or shall hereafter be allotted for each member of the board of commissioners. The chairperson of the board of commissioners shall continue to receive such compensation or allowances as are now or shall hereafter be allotted by law.
(1985 Ga. Laws, page 4348, § 1; 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5026, §§ 1, 2; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5400, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 4856, § 1; 1994 Ga. Laws, page 4448, § 1)
Sec. 4. - Duties and rights of chairman.
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners shall preside at all meetings and sign all orders of the Board of Commissioners. The chairman shall have the right to vote on all questions before the Board, and shall also have the right to make motions and perform all duties imposed under this Act upon said Board of Commissioners.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2070, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3065, § 4)
Sec. 5. - Chief Financial Officer to serve as clerk; compensation.
(a)
The position of County Treasurer is hereby abolished. All functions previously performed by the County Treasurer shall be performed by the County Chief Financial Officer, whose job duties and functions shall be established by the Butts County Board of Commissioners. To the extent the duties prescribed by O.C.G.A. §36-6-14 are required to be performed, they shall be performed by the Chief Financial Officer. Any and all references in this Code to the position of "Controller" shall be deemed and treated as a reference to the Chief Financial Officer.
(b)
The Chief Financial Officer position shall be included within the full-time classified and merit positions under the Butts County Personnel Ordinance and shall be subject to all terms and provisions of said Ordinance regarding appointment, removal, compensation and benefits.
(c)
The position of County Clerk shall be included within the full-time classified and merit positions under the Butts County Personnel Ordinance and shall be subject to all terms and provisions of said Ordinance regarding appointment, removal, compensation and benefits. It shall not be necessary or required that the County Clerk be appointed by the Board of Commissioners on an annual basis at the first meeting in January of each year. The County Clerk shall be the custodian of all county records, shall prepare agendas for and keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Commissioners, shall be the employee with primary responsibility to respond to all requests under the Georgia Open Records Act, and shall perform such other duties as prescribed by the Board of Commissioners and the County Manager.
(d)
The compensation of the Chief Financial Officer and the County Clerk shall be determined by application of the County Position Classification and Pay Plan, and by taking into consideration the education, work experience and tenure of the person holding each position.
(Ord. No. 2017-010, 12-11-2017; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 6. - Chairperson's compensation; expenses.
The chairperson of the Board of Commissioners shall be compensated in the amount of $800.00 per month, plus statutory supplements, and each of the remaining members of the board of commissioners shall be compensated in the amount of $750.00 per month, plus statutory supplements. Such compensation shall be paid monthly from the funds of Butts County. In addition to the compensation provided in this section, the chairperson and each member of the board of commissioners shall be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred in conducting the business of the county or the board when such business is conducted outside the boundaries of the county. Such expenses shall be reimbursed as incurred following the submission of supporting documentation.
(1949 Ga. Laws, page 191, § 2; 1953 Ga. Laws, page 2070, § 3; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 2138, § 2; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 2396, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2990, § 1; 1994 Ga. Laws, page 3833, § 1)
Sec. 6A. - Special supervisory duties concerning countywide services.
The commissioners are hereby authorized to designate one of the members of the board to perform certain duties that are ordinarily performed by the board, relating to the supervision over countywide services. The member of the board who is designated to perform the duties provided in this section, shall receive compensation for his services in addition to that provided in section 6. Said compensation shall be in an amount determined by a resolution of the other commissioners.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2195, § 1)
Sec. 7. - Powers and duties.
The commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters: In directing and controlling all of the property of the county in the manner provided by law; in levying taxes according to law; in establishing, abolishing, or changing election precincts or militia districts; in allowing the insolvent list of the county; in settling all claims and accounts of officers having the care, management, or disbursement of funds belonging to, or appropriated for the use and benefit of, the county and in bringing them to settlement; in providing for the poor of the county and for the promotion of health as provided by law; generally to have and exercise all the powers heretofore vested in the judge of the probate court of said county when sitting for county purposes which are not otherwise vested in the county manager pursuant to Section 12 of this Act; and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law or as may be indispensable or incidental to their jurisdiction over county matters or county finances which are not otherwise vested in the county manager pursuant to Section 12 of this Act.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2195, § 2; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 4729, § 1; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 7A. - Advisory function of county attorney; compensation.
The board shall have authority to employ a competent attorney at law to advise the board and to represent the county in any litigation which may arise in which said county is a party. Said attorney shall be designated as the county attorney. Whenever it is deemed necessary, the board may employ additional counsel to assist the county attorney and may also compensate the county attorney in additional amounts for litigation in which the county is involved.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2195, § 3)
Sec. 7B. - Insurance for employees.
The board shall have the authority to expend general funds of Butts County for the purpose of providing insurance and hospitalization benefits for its officers and employees.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2195, § 4)
Sec. 7C. - Fiscal year; annual budget.
The Board of Commissioners shall designate a fiscal year for Butts County and shall prepare for the first fiscal year so designated, and each year thereafter, an annual budget for Butts County as provided hereinafter.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3596, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 2958, § 1; Res. of 3-11-2019)
Sec. 8. - Meetings.
The Commissioners shall hold regular meetings at the Butts County Administration Facility on the second Monday in each month, and may adjourn from day to day and may hold called sessions of the Board whenever, in the opinion of a majority of said Board, the public necessity requires.
Sec. 9. - Quorum; liquor licenses.
A majority of said board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business that may come before said board, except it shall require the unanimous consent of the board to issue any license for intoxicating beverages.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 841, § 2; 1946 Ga. Laws, page 239, § 1; 1949 Ga. Laws, page 191, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws, page 2070, § 4)
Sec. 10. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board of commissioners for any reason whatsoever, a special election shall be called and conducted in the manner provided for in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-540 et seq. to fill the balance of the unexpired term; provided, however, that if a regular election for such vacant office is to be held within six months after such vacancy occurs, such office shall remain vacant for the balance of the unexpired term. Any person seeking to fill a vacancy on the board shall reside within the district in which the vacancy exists.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5026, § 3)
Sec. 11. - Bidding procedures for amounts over $20,000.00.
In all transactions of said Board involving the funds of the county where the amount of goods, merchandise, materials or equipment to be bought or sold amounts to more than $20,000.00, the Board shall, before selling or buying the same, advertise for bids upon the bulletin board in the county administration building of Butts County, and at least once in the official county organ, at least ten days before contracts are to be let or awarded. When bids are opened, the contracts shall be let or awarded to the best and lowest bidder, but the Board shall have the right to reject any and all bids, and to re-advertise for further bids in the manner above provided. The Board shall, in its discretion, have the authority to review and scrutinize all bids received and to decide to accept a bid received other than the bid containing the lowest price or value if it is determined that another bid received should be accepted as being in the best interest of Butts County. Before any contract is let or awarded to any person, firm or corporation for the sale or purchase of goods, wares or merchandise involving the expenditure of more than $20,000.00 there must have been at least two bids of record with the Board. The Board shall, in its discretion, be authorized to conclude that, due to the nature of a particular item's being bid upon or to such other reasonable factors, it is not feasible to expect to receive more than one bid for a particular purchase. In such event, the board shall have the authority to let a purchasing contract for any such item notwithstanding the failure to receive at least two bids. All bids whether accepted or rejected shall be filed for permanent record. Notwithstanding any of the restrictions as set forth in the foregoing Sections and provisions of this Act, the said Governing Authority shall have the authority in making such expenditures of county funds in keeping all county-owned equipment, motor vehicles, machinery and other property in proper repair, and in furnishing county officers with the necessary equipment, supplies and fixtures for their respective departments for the efficient and proper operation, including office equipment for the Governing Authority, without the necessary [necessity] of securing bids.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 3566, § 1; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2990, § 2; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 7064, § 1)
Sec. 11A. - Local Vendor Privilege.
(a)
Butts County has established a local vendor privilege. Bids or proposals awarded to local vendors contribute to the local tax base and will therefore be given special consideration when bidding against vendors out of local county jurisdiction. Bids or proposals received from local vendors will be given preference if such bid or proposal is responsive to bid requirements and within five (5) percent of the low bid submitted by any out-of-county bidder. In such instance, the local vendor agrees to match the low bid offered by the out-of-county vendor. If the local vendor agrees to match the lowest bidder within a time specified by the County, the bid shall be awarded to the local vendor.
(b)
A local vendor shall be eligible to receive the benefit of this privilege if it meets each of the following requirements prior too any award of a contract or purchase:
i.
The vendor must operate and maintain a regular place of business within geographical boundaries of Butts County; and
ii.
The vendor must have a current Occupational Tax Certificate; and
iii.
The vendor must have paid all real and personal taxes owed the County; and
iv.
The vendor must certify its compliance with the Georgia Security and Immigration Act
(c)
This policy shall not apply to any bid or proposal for material, equipment or services in excess of $100,000.00. In such case, the local vendor privilege shall not apply.
Sec. 12. - County manager; creation of position; qualifications; appointment; vacancies; duties and responsibilities; bond; a political character of office.
(a)
There is created the position of county manager of Butts County. The county manager shall be the chief administrative officer and head of the administrative branch of county government. The county manager shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners. The Board of Commissioners of Butts County shall select and appoint a county manager, who shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners. The county manager must devote all of such officer's working time and attention to the affairs of the county and shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the county over which such officer has responsibility.
(b)
No person shall be chosen as county manager before such person shall have attained such person's twenty-first birthday. Such person shall be of good character and of proven executive ability and experience. The county manager shall be chosen by the board of commissioners on the basis of such person's executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to such person's actual experience in or such person's knowledge of accepted practice with respect to the duties of such person's office as provided for in this section. No person elected to membership on the board of commissioners shall, subsequent to such election, be eligible for appointment as county manager until one year has elapsed following the expiration of the commissioner term for which such person was elected.
(c)
The county manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term and shall serve at the will and pleasure of the board of commissioners. Any action of the board in suspending or removing the county manager shall be final.
(d)
The board of commissioners may designate a person or persons to perform the functions and duties of the county manager during the absence, disability, or suspension of the county manager. Vacancies in the office of county manager shall be filled by the board of commissioners as early as practicable and, until such vacancy is filled, the board of commissioners shall have full power to make a temporary appointment or to perform the functions and duties of such office.
(e)
The county manager shall have the following duties, and responsibilities:
(1)
To supervise the administration of the affairs of the county and to see that the ordinances, resolutions, and directions of the board of commissioners and the laws of the state are faithfully executed and enforced;
(2)
To exercise administrative authority and supervision over all departments and personnel under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners;
(3)
To require reports from heads of departments and other employees entrusted with administrative duties or exercising discretion. The county manager shall have at all times the authority to examine all books and records of every officer and department of the county under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners;
(4)
To attend all meetings of the board of commissioners with a right to take part in the discussions but having no vote;
(5)
To recommend to the board of commissioners for adoption such measures as the county manager may deem necessary or expedient;
(6)
To supervise the performance of all contracts made by any person, company, or corporation for work done for the board of commissioners;
(7)
The county manager, and the chief financial officer, together, shall be the purchasing agent of materials and supplies for the county under such rules and regulations as may be imposed by the board of commissioners. The chief financial officer shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the county's fiscal affairs, and the county manager shall oversee the chief financial officer's performance. Both the county manager and chief financial officer, before entering upon the discharge of said person's duties, shall execute a bond with a solvent surety company licensed to do business in Butts County in an amount to be approved by the board of commissioners but not less than $25,000.00, payable to Butts County, conditioned for the faithful performance of such persons' duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriation, or unlawful expenditure. The premium on such bond shall be paid for by Butts County;
(8)
To submit to the board of commissioners for their approval a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year showing budget revenues and expenditures during the preceding fiscal year; appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year; recommended salaries; proposed capital expenditures; recommended tax levy; and such other information and data as may be considered necessary by the board of commissioners;
(9)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised at all times as to the financial condition and needs of the county;
(10)
In cooperation with the chief financial officer, to present a full written report to the board of commissioners each month showing the operations and expenditures of each department of the county government for the preceding month;
(11)
To delegate purely administrative duties to subordinates in the county government whose work the county manager shall supervise and direct; provided, however, the delegation or assignment of duties to subordinates shall not relieve the county manager from responsibility for administration of county affairs; and
(12)
To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance of the board of commissioners or other duties as may from time to time be assigned by majority vote of the board of commissioners.
(f)
The county manager shall not engage in or be concerned with local partisan politics or any local political campaign. The county manager shall not contribute to any local campaign fund or solicit funds for local political purposes from any other person. The county manager shall not be eligible for election as a member of the Board of Commissioners of Butts County for a period of one year after termination of service as county manager.
(Ord. No. 2017-010, 12-11-2017; Res. of 3-11-2019; Res. No. 2020-12, 7-13-2020)
Sec. 13. - Record of property.
The Commissioners shall keep a book of inventory of all properties of the county, together with the valuation of the same, a description of the places where located and in whose custody and keeping such property is, a description of the condition thereof, and said inventory shall be carefully revised each year and a copy thereof made available to each grand jury of the county. The Board shall keep such other books and records as are necessary to show at all times the financial condition of the county.
(Ord. of 8-8-2016, §§ 1,2; Ord. of 2-12-2018, 2018)
Sec. 14. - Quarterly publication of summary of receipts and disbursements.
The Board shall cause to be published each quarter of the year in the official county organ, not later than sixty (60) days after the end of said quarter, a written summary of receipts and disbursements. Said summary shall only state the total receipts and disbursements for each county department or office and shall not be required to itemize each and every item received and disbursed by voucher number or amount. In addition to the foregoing requirement, the Board shall further cause to be printed at least each quarter an itemized statement of disbursements and receipts which shall itemize each and every item received and disbursed by date, amount, and identity of payor/payee. Said quarterly itemized statement shall be printed by the Clerk of the Board and shall be affixed to the bulletin board located in the Butts County Administration Facility utilized for public notices commencing no later than sixty (60) days following the end of the applicable quarter and said statement shall remain so posted for a period of at least thirty (30) days after posting. Upon written request, the Clerk of the Board shall provide a photostatic copy of said quarterly itemized statement to any interested person, group, firm or other legal entity at no charge. The itemized list of disbursements required herein shall not include disbursements made to county employees as a result of their regular employment.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2195, § 5; 1974 Ga. Laws, page 2990, § 3; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 3535, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws, page 7071, § 1)
Sec. 15. - Recall provided.
Upon the petition of at least twenty-five per centum of the citizens of the county, legally qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly, charging any act or acts of misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance in office on the part of any Commissioner, it shall be the duty of the Ordinary to call a special election at which the question of the recall of the offending Commissioner shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the county, and in said election should a majority of the qualified voters of the county vote for the recall of any Commissioner accused of any act of misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance in office the Ordinary shall declare the results of said election and declare a vacancy in the office of said Commissioner, and shall forthwith, in the manner provided for the calling of special elections, call a special election for the purpose of electing a successor to the member thus recalled.
ARTICLE II. - AUTHORITIES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

DIVISION 1. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1968 Ga. Laws, page 1614, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly, which amended the state constitution by creating the Butts County Industrial Development Authority. Such local constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 3848. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1. - Amendment of constitution.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
Sec. A. - Created.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Butts County, to be known as the Butts County Industrial Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Butts County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the 'Authority.'
Sec. B. - Members.
The Authority shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Butts County, and they shall serve for a term of five years. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said Board of County Commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
Sec. C. - Property.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Butts County. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not include exemptions from sale and use taxes on property purchased by the Authority or for use by the Authority.
Sec. D. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Butts County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Butts County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishing, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
Sec. E. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Butts County.
Sec. F. - Compensation.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority.
Sec. G. - Bonds—Generally.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Butts County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Butts County.
Sec. H. - Same—Additional.
The Authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
Sec. I. - Same—Refunding; exceptions.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the Authority shall have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Butts County;
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said county, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
Sec. J. - Gifts and contributions.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms, or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
Sec. K. - Property.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Butts County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
Sec. L. - Intent.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Butts County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
Sec. M. - Effective date.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
Sec. N. - General Assembly to define and describe powers and duties.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Butts County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
DIVISION 2. - JOINT WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this division is 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4505, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly, which amended the state constitution by creating the Butts County, City of Flovilla, City of Jackson, and City of Jenkinsburg Water and Sewer Authority. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Butts County, City of Flovilla, City of Jackson, and City of Jenkinsburg Water and Sewer Authority Act."
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Creation; composition; terms; election of officers; quorum; vacancies; compensation; rules.
(a)
Butts County, City of Flovilla, City of Jackson, and City of Jenkinsburg Water and Sewer Authority. There is created a public body corporation and by such name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under any trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of its officers, agents, or employees.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members. Two members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Butts County, one member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Flovilla, one member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Jackson, and one member shall be appointed by the City of Jenkinsburg. The governing authority of Butts County shall appoint two members, one to serve for an initial term of one year and one to serve for an initial term of three years. The governing authority of the City of Flovilla shall appoint one member to serve for an initial term of one year. The governing authority of the City of Jackson shall appoint one member to serve for an initial term of two years. The governing authority of the City of Jenkinsburg shall appoint one member to serve for an initial term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made for terms of three years and until the successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Immediately after the passage of this Act and the appointment of the members by the governing bodies of each of the cities and Butts County, the members of the authority shall enter upon their duties, and as soon as it is practicable thereafter, they shall hold an organizational meeting. The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice-chairman. None of the mayors of the cities nor the chairman of the Butts County Board of Commissioners shall serve as chairman or vice-chairman of the authority. The members shall also elect a secretary and a chief financial officer, or a secretary-chief financial officer, who need not be members of the authority. Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the authority of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority. Each appointing governing authority may provide for compensation for the services of the members it appoints in such amounts as it may deem appropriate; provided, however, that such members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority may make rules and regulations and adopt bylaws for its own government. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 2)
Sec. 2A. - Filling of vacancies.
Any vacancy in the membership of the authority shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the governing authority of the county or municipality which appointed the member who has vacated his or her membership on the authority.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 4505, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
Authority means the Butts County, City of Flovilla, City of Jackson, and City of Jenkinsburg Water and Sewer Authority created by Section 2 of this Act.
Cost of the project means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for one year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, and of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, the construction of the project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. The cost of any project may also include a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority with respect to the financing and operating of its projects and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
Project means and includes the acquisition and construction of systems, plants, works, instrumentalities, and properties: (1) used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply and the conservation, treatment, distribution, and sale of water for public and private uses; or (2) used or useful in connection with the collection, treatment, and disposal of sewage and waste; together with all parts of any such system, plant, work, instrumentality, and property and all appurtenances thereto, including lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights, franchises, approaches, dams, reservoirs, generating stations, sewage disposal plants, intercepting sewers, truck-connecting and other sewers and watermains, filtration works, pumping stations, and equipment.
Revenue bonds and bonds means revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act, and revenue bonds may be issued by the authority as authorized in this Act without any other actions or proceedings.
Self-liquidating means any project which, in the sole judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including but not limited to any contractual payments, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith, together with any grants, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 3(5))
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise, and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act; and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the action or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, provided no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To enter into an agreement with Butts County, the City of Flovilla, the City of Jackson, the City of Jenkinsburg, or with any other political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state with respect to acquiring a source of water supply; providing sewerage service, preparing engineering data, plans, and specifications for a water and sewerage system; extending watermains; apportioning the costs of constructing, extending, and maintaining a water or sewerage system, or both; providing for the testing and inspection of facilities constructed; providing for rates to be charged for water and sewerage services furnished to users of such system; providing for the reading of meters and keeping of pertinent records; or apportioning or designating the responsibility for any functions normally maintained by a water and sewerage system at the most reasonable cost possible;
(5)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(6)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient thereto, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state and all special districts and all municipal corporations located in Butts County are authorized to enter into contracts; leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of this paragraph, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, special districts, and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water and sewerage service and facilities or either of them by the authority to such municipal corporations, special districts, and counties to the authority for a term not exceeding 50 years. As to any political subdivision, department, institution, or agency of this state and all special districts and municipal corporations located in Butts County which shall enter into an agreement under the authority granted in this paragraph or in paragraph (4) of this section, the obligation to perform and fulfill such agreement shall constitute a general obligation of such entity for which its full faith and credit shall be and is pledged;
(7)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof;
(8)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money or materials or property of any kind from, the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(9)
To make loans with, and accept grants or loans of money, materials, or property of any kind from, the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may impose;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to make short term loans and to approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness, provided no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state; and
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 4(12))
Sec. 5. - Financing projects.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created in this Act, shall have power and is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to borrow money for the purposes of paying all or any part of the cost, as defined in this Act, of any one or more projects and to provide by resolution for issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for that purpose. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The interest rate or rates to be borne by any bonds and the time of payment of such interest shall be fixed, and with respect to any interest rate which floats in response to a variable, the method of calculation shall be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of all bonds. Any bonds issued by the authority shall be exempt from all laws of the State of Georgia governing usury or prescribing or limiting interest rates to be borne by bonds or other obligations.
(1995 Ga. Laws, page 3550, § 1)
Sec. 6. - Revenue bonds—Form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for registration, conversion, and exchangeability privileges and for rights of redemption and may contain such other terms, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Same—Signatures; seals.
All such bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairman or vice-chairman of the authority and the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-chief financial officer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto, either manually or by facsimile. The signature of one of such officers shall be placed manually on each bond. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of the chairman or vice-chairman and the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-chief financial officer of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of and may be manually signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by those persons who at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of issuance of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bond or on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the State of Georgia pertaining to negotiable instruments. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 8)
Sec. 9. - Same—Sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be in the best interest of the authority.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 9)
Sec. 10. - Same—Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in any trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to pay from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be used for paying the principal of and the interest on such bonds.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 10)
Sec. 11. - Same—Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 11)
Sec. 12. - Same—Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 12)
Sec. 13. - Same—Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as provided in this Act.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 13)
Sec. 14. - Same—Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the State of Georgia, Butts County, the City of Flovilla, the City of Jackson, or the City of Jenkinsburg, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of such state, county, or cities, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate such state, city, or county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the provisions enumerated in this section.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 14)
Sec. 15. - Same—Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank inside or outside the state having the powers of a trust company. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, charges, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys; may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority and shall be satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor; may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers; and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of private corporations. In addition, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 15)
Sec. 16. - Same—To whom proceeds of bond shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank, or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes of this Act, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 16)
Sec. 17. - Same—Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, charges, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, tolls, charges, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated together with any grant funds, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest on such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in any trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or of any trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall immediately be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 17)
Sec. 18. - Same—Remedies of bondholders.
Any holders of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by any trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 18)
Sec. 19. - Same—Refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon, and to refund any revenue bonds issued by any city, county, or authority with respect to any facilities to be acquired by the authority from any such city, county, or authority. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the provisions of this Act insofar as such provisions may be applicable.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 19)
Sec. 20. - Same—Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Butts County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in such court, which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 20)
Sec. 21. - Same—Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure provided for in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq. the "Revenue Bond Law," as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or any other party which has contracted with the authority to furnish or receive the services and facilities of the water and sewerage system for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality or other party shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, instrumentality, or other party contracting with the authority.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 21)
Sec. 22. - Same—Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 22)
Sec. 23. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as proceeds of short-term loans, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 23)
Sec. 24. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, equipping, constructing, maintaining, and operating adequate water supply, treatment, and distribution facilities and sewerage collection, treatment, and distribution facilities; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Butts County, the City of Flovilla, the City of Jackson, or the City of Jenkinsburg, and their environs, including municipalities inside or outside such county, and to adjoining counties; extending and improving such facilities; and doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation for such type of undertakings.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 24)
Sec. 25. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the water and sewerage system, and to pledge to the punctual payment of such bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 25)
Sec. 26. - Tax exempt status of authority.
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 26)
Sec. 27. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 27)
Sec. 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 28)
Sec. 29. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of this state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 29)
Sec. 30. - Effect of partial invalidity of Act.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of any competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 30)
Sec. 31. - Other existing powers and authority.
This Act does not in any way take from the City of Flovilla, the City of Jackson, the City of Jenkinsburg, or Butts County or any municipality located therein or in any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain water systems or issue revenue bonds as is provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-82-1 et seq., the "Revenue Bond Law."
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 5457, § 31)
ARTICLE III. - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Sec. 1. - Court costs.
In all criminal cases and quasicriminal cases heard in the Superior Court of Butts County or in the Probate Court of Butts County wherein a fine which shall be construed to include costs is collected or wherein a bond which shall be construed to include costs is forfeited and collected, the sum of $5.00 for each case so disposed shall be paid to the chief financial officer of Butts County. Such sum remitted to the chief financial officer under the provisions of this Act shall be used for the purpose of maintaining the Butts County courthouse and other public buildings owned by the board of commissioners of Butts County. Provided, that if the amount of such funds held by the chief financial officer at any time shall exceed $10,000.00, the amount in excess of $10,000.00 shall be paid into the general fund of the county for general county purposes.
(1969 Ga. Laws, page 2664, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2859, § 1; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 4472, § 1; 1990 Ga. Laws, page 4056, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Compensation of judges of courts of limited jurisdiction.
Section 1.
The Board of Commissioners of Butts County do elect to compensate the full-time and part-time judges of courts of limited jurisdiction in said county in accordance with Plan of Compensation "A" as set forth in Section 5 of said Act [1982 Ga. Laws, page 1737];
Section 2.
The Board of Commissioners of Butts County do hereby set and establish the salary of part-time judges of such courts at $3,000.00 per year, to be paid in monthly increments of equal amounts; and do hereby set and establish the salary of full-time judges of such courts at $8,000.00 per year, to be paid in monthly increments of equal amounts.
(1983 Ga. Laws, page 4753, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 3. - Business licenses; penalties.
Section 1.
The board of commissioners of Butts County shall have the power to levy, assess, and collect a license fee from any person, firm, or corporation, except those subject to regulation by the Georgia Public Service Commission, who may maintain a place of business or who may in any manner engage in any type of business in any area of Butts County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities located in Butts County.
Section 2.
The maximum punishment which may be imposed for the violation of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 1 of this Act shall be a fine of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both.
(1986 Ga. Laws, page 3846, §§ 1, 2)
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
This table shows the location of the sections of the Special Acts of the Georgia General Assembly, relating to Butts County, Georgia, and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Special Acts
Year Page Section Section
this Related Laws
1943 841 1 Art. I, § 5
2 Art. I, § 9
1946 239 1 Art. I, § 9
1949 191 1 Art. I, § 1
2 Art. I, § 6
3 Art. I, § 9
1953 2070 1—3 Art. I, § 4—Art. I, § 6
4 Art. I, § 9
1961 2011 1 Art. I, § 12
1962 2138 1, 2 Art. I, § 5, Art. I, § 6
1966 2396 1 Art. I, § 6
1967 3239 1 Art. I, § 5
1969 2195 1 Art. I, § 6A
2 Art. I, § 7
3 Art. I, § 7A
4 Art. I, § 7B
5 Art. I, § 14
2664 1 Art. III, § 1
1970 2859 1 Art. III, § 1
1971 3566 1 Art. I, § 11
3596 1 Art. I, § 7C
1974 2990 1 Art. I, § 6
2 Art. I, § 11
3 Art. I, § 14
1977 793 1 Art. I, § 1
2958 1 Art. I, § 7C
3065 3, 4 Art. I, § 3, Art. I, § 4
4472 1 Art. III, § 1
1982 4790 1 Art. I, § 3
1983 4753 1, 2 Art. III, § 2
1985 4348 1 Art. I, § 3A
1986 3846 1, 2 Art. III, § 3
5026 1, 2 Art. I, § 3A
3 Art. I, § 10
5457 1—4 Art. II, Div. 2, § 1—Art. II, Div. 2, § 4
6—31 Art. II, Div. 2, § 6—Art. II, Div. 2, § 31
1987 4505 1 Art. II, Div. 2, § 2A
5400 1 Art. I, § 3A
1988 4729 1 Art. I, § 7
2 Art. I, § 12
1990 4056 1 Art. III, § 1
1991 3535 1 Art. I, § 14
1992 4856 1 Art. I, § 3A
7064 1 Art. I, § 11
7071 1 Art. I, § 14
1994 3833 1 Art. I, § 6
4448 1 Art. I, § 3A
1995 3550 1 Art. II, Div. 2, § 5
  RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE
ORDINANCES
This table gives the location within the Related Laws of adopted ordinances included herein.
EXPAND
Ordinance
No.  Date Section  Section
this Code
Ord. of  8- 8-2016 1, 2 Art. I, § 12(b)
2017-010 12-11-2017 Art. I, §§ 5, 12
2018-001  2-12-2018 1 Art. I, § 12(b)
Res. of  3-11-2019 Art. I, § 12(e)(8)
2020-12 (Res.)  7-13-2020 Art I, § 5(c)
Art. I, § 7
Art. I, § 12
