Sec. 3.04.03. - Protection criteria.
(a)
No construction may proceed on a building or manufactured home to be served by a septic tank unless the Butts County Health Department first approves the proposed septic tank installations as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resource for On-Site Sewage Management Manual (hereinafter DHR Manual), and sections (b) and (c) below.
(b)
New homes served by a septic tank/drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in DHR Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in Sections A-F) of the DHR Manual.
(1)
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(2)
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; or
(3)
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(c)
New manufactured home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in DHR Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in Sections A-F) of the DHR Manual.
(1)
One hundred fifty percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
(2)
One hundred twenty-five percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; or
(3)
One hundred ten percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
(d)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area; a medium pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet; or a low pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet. As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 x 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resource and Conservation Service.
(e)
New above-ground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(f)
New facilities that handle hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and local fire code requirements.
(g)
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
