Sec. 3.06.01. - Purpose.
The wetlands in Butts County are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state of Georgia.
Nationally, a considerable number of these important natural resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
The Georgia Department of Natural Resources and the Georgia Department of Community Affairs have determined that each local government with classified wetlands located in its jurisdiction must adopt a wetlands protection ordinance under the requirements of House Bill 215, Georgia's 1989 Growth Strategies Legislation and the rules promulgated thereunder.
It is therefore necessary for Butts County, Georgia, to ensure maximum protection for wetlands by discouraging development activities in wetlands that may adversely affect wetlands.
The purpose of this ordinance is to promote wetlands protection while taking into account varying ecological, economic development and recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations which will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, flood plain and erosion control, ground water recharge, aesthetic nature, and wildlife areas and to comply with the requirements of state law related to wetland protection.
