Chapter 8 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - False alarms.
(a)
Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them by this section:
Alarm means any signal (audio or visually, recorded or live) transmitted to the city or county, indicating a predetermined condition exists when said alarm is received either:
(1)
By telephone line to a designated position on an alarm panel;
(2)
By a private alarm service company relayed to the 911 communications center telephone;
(3)
By an automated telephone alarm system, playing a recorded message when received on the 911 communications center telephone; or
(4)
By an audible/visual signal relayed to the 911 communications center by a third party.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system where none of the emergencies for which the alarm system has been installed, have in fact occurred.
Response means the dispatch of any law enforcement or fire unit to the premises where an alarm has been activated.
Telephone alarm system means any alarm system which automatically transmits by telephone line a recorded electronic or mechanical signal to a telephone instrument at the 911 communications center. Such system must be totally automated and require no relaying or action by a human being.
(b)
Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for anyone to activate any robbery, burglary, or fire alarm, except in the event of an actual or attempted burglary, robbery or fire. It shall be unlawful for anyone to notify the city or county of an activated alarm with the knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other malfunction of the system or by lack of adequate maintenance of the alarm system without at the same time notifying the law enforcement of such apparent malfunctions. All alarm systems shall be installed as per NFPA 72 and any reference codes that apply to NFPA 72.
(c)
Service fees imposed.
(1)
For each fire response to a false alarm, a report shall be made and forwarded to the fire marshal's office. The fire marshal shall take the following actions:
a.
For the first false alarm from a premises within a six-month period, the fire marshal shall forward to the property owner or premises lessee a copy of the report, a copy of this chapter, and a statement that continued false alarms will lead to a service fee;
b.
For the second false alarm from a premises within a 12-month period, the fire marshal shall cause the alarm system to be inspected by a state-licensed alarm low-voltage contractor and to prescribe necessary corrective action;
c.
For the third false alarm within a 12-month period, the property owner or lessee shall be charged a fee of $50.00;
d.
For the fourth false alarm and all succeeding alarms within a 12-month period, the property owner or lessee shall be charged a fee up to $1,000.00 per alarm and each additional alarm thereafter;
e.
For cases which need immediate action with more than ten alarms, the fire marshal shall have the authority to cease a business' activity with a 24-hour notice.
(2)
The marshal's office or his designee shall be responsible for issuing citations for fees imposed.
(3)
The false alarm shall not be considered for purposes of assessing a fee if:
a.
Within ten days from the occurrence of a false alarm, the owner or lessee of the premises can demonstrate to the fire marshal, as applicable, that the alarm system in question has actually been examined by an authorized repair service who certifies in writing that the system is currently in good working order; provided, however, no more than one letter may be submitted by an owner or lessee within a six-month period in order to avoid a fee assessment;
b.
The false alarm was not caused by employee error at a business location;
c.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no more than one such letter may be submitted by an owner or lessee of a premises within a 12-month period in order to avoid a fee assessment as provided by this subsection;
d.
The alarm was activated by inclement weather.
Secs. 8-2—8-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-11. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade event requiring the activation of the Local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services (public safety);
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Nuclear power plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public service utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. of 5-31-2008, § I)
Sec. 8-12. - Local organization for emergency management.
In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Cherokee County, Georgia, County Emergency Management Agency. The chairperson of the county commissioners has given the authority and control of the county emergency management program to the county sheriff effective August 16, 2005. The county sheriff shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the county emergency management agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body. The director of the county emergency management agency shall also serve as the single point of contact for the NIMS/ICS program. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency operations plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of county sheriff.
(Ord. of 5-31-2008, § II)
State Law reference— Local emergency management organizations, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 8-13. - Cherokee County emergency management agency.
(a)
The county emergency management agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows:
EXPAND
Emergency Support Function Primary Agency/Department Secondary Agency/Department
1
Transportation Cherokee County Community Services Agency Cherokee County School District
Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
2
Communications Cherokee E-911 Center Cherokee Amateur Radio Group
Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Joint Information Team
3
Public Works/Engineering Cherokee Public Works
Agency
Canton Streets Dept
Holly Springs Streets Dept
Woodstock Streets Dept
Ball Ground Streets Dept
Nelson Streets Dept Cherokee Public Works Agency supports each city. Each city provides support to the county and each other.
4
Firefighting Cherokee County Fire-ES
City of Canton Fire
City of Woodstock Fire Cherokee County supports each city. Cities support each other and Cherokee County
5
Emergency Management Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Cherokee Sheriff's Office
6
Mass Care Department of Family and Children's Services American Red Cross
Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
Public Health Department
Salvation Army
7
Resource Support Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Cherokee Fire-ES
8
Public Health Public Health Department Cherokee Fire-ES
Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
9
Search & Rescue Cherokee Fire-ES
City of Canton Fire
City of Woodstock Fire Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
Canton Police
Holly Springs Police
Woodstock Police
Cherokee Sheriff's Office
10
Hazardous Materials Cherokee Fire-ES
City of Canton Fire
City of Woodstock Fire Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
11
Agriculture & Animal Cherokee Animal Shelter Cherokee County Extension Service
Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management
12
Energy Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Cherokee Fleet Maintenance
Cherokee County Roads & Bridges
13
Public Safety & Security Cherokee Sheriff's Office
Ball Ground Police
Canton Police
Holly Springs Police
Nelson Police
Woodstock Police
Cherokee Coroner's Office Cherokee County Marshal
14
Long-Term Recovery Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Cherokee County Community Services Agency
Cherokee County Property Management
Cherokee County Public Works Agency
15
External Affairs Cherokee Sheriff's Office of Emergency Management Cherokee Sheriff's Office
  (b)
Heads of county departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(Ord. of 5-31-2008, § III)
Sec. 8-14. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the county commissioners separately, or jointly with the mayors of cities located within the county, or in their absence their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from manmade or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation of temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
(Ord. of 5-31-2008, § IV)
State Law reference— Powers of local emergency management agencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 8-15. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county or one of the cities located within the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(Ord. of 5-31-2008, § V)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-35.
Secs. 8-16—8-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CIVIL EMERGENCIES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 8-21. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. Such meetings may be called by the mayor any two members of the city councilmembers without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(b)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, designee, or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the city council as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
(2)
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees, or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle, or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the city. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the city council or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
Sec. 8-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fee means any fee or rate charged by the city or its designee for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. Fees shall not include those fees collected by the city on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the city pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated, unless extended by official action of the city council.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle, or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a particular zoning district.
Secs. 8-23—8-43. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW

Sec. 8-44. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this division from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, and utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the city council, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency means, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. of 1999, § 2)
Sec. 8-45. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the city.
(b)
All of the city shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. of 1999, § 1)
Sec. 8-46. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings, or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the city during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. of 1999, § 3)
