Chapter 26 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - On-site sewage management systems.
The provisions of chapter 46, article VI of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
Sec. 26-2. - Illicit discharges and illegal connections.
Cherokee County Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Ordinance, being chapter 46, article VII of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, is hereby adopted by reference.
Secs. 26-3—26-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WATER SYSTEM

Sec. 26-23. - Established.
There is hereby established a water system for the city to provide potable and sanitary water to the city's citizens and environs.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-1)
Sec. 26-24. - Administration.
The water system shall be administered by the city council.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-2)
Sec. 26-25. - Appoint a manager and a maintenance person.
The city council may at any time name and appoint a manager and a maintenance person, or one person to perform both jobs, to oversee and look after the operation and distribution of water to the customers of the city, and he shall perform such duties as are required of him by the city council. The manager shall possess a valid state water certification and shall obtain a state license as a water distribution system operator within 18 months of employment. Any person hired as a maintenance person shall obtain a state water certification within 18 months of employment, and shall attend necessary workshops and schools in order to maintain the knowledge and skills necessary for the position.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-5)
Secs. 26-26—26-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 26-54. - Subscriber application.
All initial subscribers who wish to be furnished water by this water system must sign a written application and file a deposit, as hereinafter stated. By signing the application, all applicants shall agree to accept the requirements and conditions of this article and all future and additional rules and regulations adopted by the water system after receiving a written copy of those future and additional rules and regulations.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-21)
Sec. 26-55. - Deposit; tap-in fee.
(a)
Each applicant shall deposit a sum as fixed from time to time by the council to guarantee payment of the water bill. The water deposit shall be refunded to each subscriber having made any such deposit upon receipt by the water system of written request to terminate services to that subscriber and after the water system has determined that no charges or fees are due from the terminating subscriber.
(b)
Each applicant for service shall pay a tap-in fee as established from time to time by the council which shall include tie-in to the service main of the water system, the water meter and placement of the meter upon the property of the subscriber as near as possible to the juncture of the road right-of-way and property owner's property line.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-22)
Sec. 26-56. - Charges and billing.
All charges and billing to subscribers of the water system shall be in accordance with the rate schedule as adopted from time to time by the council. Any water used over 1,999 gallons shall be rounded to the nearest 1,000 and billed as an additional 1,000 gallons. The rate structure is established in such manner to ensure that all expenses of the water system may be met.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-23)
Sec. 26-57. - Responsibility and liability of water system.
The water system shall be responsible and liable for the following:
(1)
Installation and maintenance of main supply lines. The city water system shall install main supply lines and shall be responsible for the supervision and maintenance of these main supply lines, master meters at junction with service main of the City of Canton and the county, pumping stations along the main supply line and all reservoirs or tanks on the main supply line.
(2)
Right to refuse service when capacity will not permit. The city water system shall have the right to refuse to accept applications of new subscribers when the city council determines and declares that the subscribers that have been accepted and are being served are consuming the capacity that the system is able to provide.
(3)
Responsibility for damages to property other than its own. The city water system shall not be responsible for repairs and damage to any property other than its own pumps, storage tanks and water mains. All installations or repairs to water lines from tap-in to subscriber's water meter, and repairs to subscriber's meter shall be the expense of subscriber and each subscriber shall be responsible for all installations and repairs and maintenance of his own line from said meter.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-24)
Sec. 26-58. - Responsibility of subscribers.
(a)
Installation and maintenance of service lines. The individual subscriber who shall make application and deposit as required shall be responsible for the installation of any and all service lines from the individual subscriber's water meter, installed by the city water system, to outlets on property owned or being used by that subscriber, and each applicant shall be responsible for repairs or replacements of any meter installed by the city water system on property owned or used by that subscriber.
(b)
Water meter placement. Each subscriber for services of the water system shall file with his application a written release signed by the owner of the property on which a water meter is desired to be placed for the placement of the meter and a hold-harmless clause from damages for the installation of the meter. The subscriber shall provide a suitable place for the location of the water meter at a place on the property owned or being used by the subscriber near the right-of-way boundary of the property to be easily maintained and read by an employee or agent of the city water system.
(c)
Easement on subscriber's land. Any subscriber that shall make application for service with the city water system shall give an easement to the city water system for placement of water system property upon the property of the subscriber in providing service lines to the subscriber.
(d)
Damage to the water system. The subscriber shall be responsible to repair and replace any property of the city water system located on his property when same shall be damaged or destroyed and any other water system property that his actions may cause to be damaged or destroyed.
(e)
Specified uses of water. Any subscriber, in consideration of the rights of other subscribers of the water system, shall be permitted to use any amount of water necessary to provide the normal and usual needs of himself and his family and to provide water for his chicken houses and livestock. However, when those requirements of water shall be or become excessive, special permission of the water system must be obtained before any excessive use unit or system can be tied in to the system.
(f)
Each dwelling unit to be served by separate connection and meter. The city shall have the right to inspect meters and service lines except as provided in section 26-60, where more than one premises is found on a single meter, the city may require that separate connections be made within ten days' notice to do so. Should any property owner fail to make the required connections within the time provided by the city to do so, service to those premises shall be discontinued until such connections are completed.
(g)
No person shall make an unauthorized connection to the city water system or meddle or tamper with a meter or service line in such a manner that will interfere with or prevent the correct operation of the meter. Any person violating this subsection shall be liable for the full cost of repair or replacement of the meter and lines, and shall, in addition, be punished on conviction as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-25)
Sec. 26-59. - Extensions.
(a)
Approval. No extension of city water lines shall be made without prior approval of the board of commissioners of the city water system.
(b)
Who pays for extension. Any group of people that shall require or desire the services of the city water system and shall require an extension of the present service mains and shall be outside of or beyond the boundary and terminal points of those mains as they are now proposed and platted may contract for the extension of mains with the water system; provided the water system shall not be subscribed to its capacity. Any such group requesting an extension shall pay the costs of extending the water main in any manner they shall determine among themselves, but the amount shall be paid in one lump sum prior to the installation, or one-third upon beginning of extension installation, one-third when half the extension has been completed and the balance immediately upon completion of the installation. All extensions of water mains shall become the property of the water system after installation, inspection and approval by the city or its designee.
(c)
Limitations on extensions. In consideration of the contracts of existing subscribers of the water system, the water system will not contract for the extension of any of its lines as long as its regular subscribers on the original line as originally constructed consume or are expected to consume the capacity volume of water the water system is efficiently able to furnish. No extension shall increase the consumption of water to all subscribers, including all extensions, more than the capacity the water system is able to furnish.
(d)
Extensions longer than 1,000 feet. Whenever a property owner wishes to have the city extend a water line which will be more than 1,000 feet in length, the following steps should be taken:
(1)
The property owner should obtain an estimate of the cost of extending the water line from a licensed, qualified contractor. The estimates should include the costs of installing a two-inch, four-inch, six-inch and eight-inch line.
(2)
The property owner should talk with neighboring property owners, if appropriate, to determine whether anyone else wants to share in the cost of the line.
(3)
The property owner or owners shall estimate how many potential customers there may be for the extended line in the near future.
(4)
The property owner or owners shall have the city's water line consultant (presently Stanley Townsend) determine the water pressure in the line.
(5)
The property owner or owners shall provide to the city in writing the number of current customers and estimated number of future customers on the line, as well as the current water pressure on the line, with a request that the city consider allowing the extension of the line at the expense of the property owners.
(6)
If the city wishes to consider extending the line, the city shall have the city engineer assess the request pursuant to paragraph 3 of the city's "Minimum Water Main Size" provisions and submit a written report with a recommendation regarding the extension, including the present and future effect an extension would have on the water pressure in the area of the line and on the city's water system in general.
(7)
The city shall then consider the request in view of the foregoing information and the engineer's report. Should the engineer recommend that a certain minimum size line would serve the potential new customers but that a larger line should be considered as a benefit or future benefit for the city's system, the city may elect to pay the difference between the two.
(8)
In no event shall the city approve a water line extension that would not be financially feasible for the city or that could result in unacceptable water pressure for any customers of the city's water system.
(9)
Should the city elect to proceed with the line as requested, the work to be completed by a contractor approved by the city, the property owner or owners shall submit payment to the city for the installation of the line in one lump sum prior to initiation of the work. After the work is completed and inspected to the satisfaction of the city, the water line shall become the property of the city.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-26; Policy of 2009)
Sec. 26-60. - Multiple water services through a single meter.
(a)
No customer shall supply water service to more than one dwelling or premises from a single-service line and meter without first obtaining the written permission of the city.
(b)
Where the city allows more than one dwelling or premises to be served through a single-service line and meter, the amount of water used by all the dwellings and premises served through a single-service line and meter shall be allocated to each separate dwelling or premises served. The water charge for each such dwelling or premises thus served shall be computed just as if each such dwelling or premises had received through a separately metered service the amount of water so allocated to it, such computation to be made at the city's applicable water rates scheduled, including provisions as to minimum bills. The separate charges for each dwelling or premises served through a single-service line and meter shall then be added together and the sum thereof shall be billed to the customer in whose name the service is supplied.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-39)
Sec. 26-61. - Moving; terminating service.
(a)
Notice of change. When a subscriber shall move from any property for which he has signed a contract with the water system for service, he shall immediately give written notice that he is moving, before moving, to the water system and state the date the water system shall discontinue service, pay all charges and pick up the refund of deposit if he is entitled to refund.
(b)
Responsibility for payment of water already consumed; and not paid for. Any subscriber shall be responsible to pay for all water he has consumed through the last reading of his water meter after written notice to the water system that he is moving. He shall not be able to receive a refund of his deposit until any unpaid bills for consumption of water have been paid.
(c)
Charges for change. Any subscriber terminating his contract and any new subscriber moving into the property being vacated shall each pay a fee as fixed from time to time by the council to close out the account of the moving subscriber and to open the account of the new subscriber. Any subscriber who shall transfer from one piece of property served by the water system to another piece of property served by the water system shall pay only a transfer fee in lieu of one fee to stop one contract and a second fee to open a new contract.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-27)
Sec. 26-62. - Payment due and penalty.
(a)
Payment date due. Every subscriber shall be required to pay all bills for services by the 15th of each month. If any subscriber shall not pay all bills due by the 24th of each month, the water system shall be authorized to cut off the water at subscriber's water meter; provided no service shall be discontinued for nonpayment until the water system has provided the consumer with a reminder notice.
(b)
Penalties for late payments and for non-payments. When any subscriber shall be late in paying any bill for services after the 15th day of each month, he will pay an additional late charge as fixed from time to time by the council. Any subscriber that has not paid all bills due by the 24th of each month, subscriber shall pay a non-payment fee as fixed from time to time by the council.
(Code 1986, § 5-1-28; Ord. of 11-7-2016, § 1)
