Chapter 12 - LICENSES, TAXATION AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - County business regulations adopted.
The provisions of chapter 18, article III of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
Sec. 12-2. - Vehicles for hire regulations adopted.
The provisions of chapter 66 of the Code of Ordinances, Cherokee County, Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, are hereby adopted by reference.
Sec. 12-3. - Collection of delinquent taxes, fees or other revenue; interest.
(a)
For the collection of delinquent taxes, a fi. fa. shall be issued by the city clerk and executed by the sheriff's department under the procedure provided by the laws of the state governing execution of process from the superior court, or by use of any other available process and remedies.
(b)
A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
(c)
The amount due on all delinquent fi. fas. issued under subsection (a) of this section, as well as any interest or penalty thereon, shall be listed as a part of and in addition to the annual ad valorem tax bill.
(d)
Any license, privilege or permit granted by the city shall be revoked by the city clerk for the failure to pay any money due the city for taxes, fees, penalties, interests, fines or other revenue, within three calendar-months and ten days after any payment is due; provided that any person aggrieved by the order may, within ten days thereof, appeal to the council, who, after a hearing thereon, may approve or modify the order or restore the license privilege or permit by adopting a motion to that effect but only upon finding that the city clerk's action was not factually or legally correct.
(e)
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all fi. fas. issued hereunder shall earn interest at the maximum rate allowed by state law, and no penalty shall be charged except in lieu of interest.
(Code 1986, § 2-5-13)
Sec. 12-4. - Exemption requirement.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this chapter shall be exempt from said registration or tax on the grounds that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 80 percent or more of the entire proceeds from said business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-30)
Sec. 12-5. - Tax on financial institutions.
(a)
Financial institutions business license tax. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied an annual business license tax upon state and national banking associations, federal savings and loan associations, and state building and loan associations at the rate of one-fourth of one percent (0.25 percent) of the gross receipts of said institutions. The term "gross receipts" shall means gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. Notwithstanding any other provisions in this section, the minimum amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to this section shall be $200.00 per year.
(b)
Due date; filing of return.
(1)
Each depository financial institution within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts were measured. Said returns shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of banking and shall be based upon the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The tax levied pursuant to this section shall be assessed and collected based upon the information provided in said return.
(2)
The due date of taxes levied by this section shall be April 2 of each year.
(Ord. of 3-8-1999, § 2-5-44)
Secs. 12-6—12-28. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AD VALOREM TAXATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-350 et seq.

Sec. 12-29. - Tax rate.
An annual ad valorem tax upon all real and personal property within the city is hereby levied. The millage rate therefor shall be established each year by ordinance.
(Code 1986, § 2-5-11)
Sec. 12-30. - Tax due and payable.
(a)
All ad valorem taxes due the city shall be billed and paid in one payment.
(b)
Ad valorem tax bills, as adjusted to conform to the tax digest of the county, shall be payable on or before December 20. In the event of adjustment by the state revenue commissioner, the city shall, within a reasonable time thereafter as may be determined by resolution of the council after receipt from the county of the adjustment information, refund any overpayments or bill for any underpayments.
(Code 1986, § 2-5-12)
Secs. 12-31—12-48. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HOTEL/MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Excise tax on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 12-49. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Guestroom means a room occupied or intended, arranged or designed for occupancy by one or more occupants.
Hotel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, Turkish bath, bachelor hotel, studio hotel, motel, auto court, inn, public club or private club, containing guestrooms and which is occupied or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise. The term does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention building, or other building in which human beings are housed or detained under legal restraint.
Occupancy means the use or possession or the right to the use or possession of any room or apartment in a hotel, or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room.
Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel in the city, including but not limited to the owner or proprietor of such premises, a lessee, sublessee, mortgagor in possession or licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guestroom in a hotel for at least ten consecutive days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or other group or combination acting as a unit, excepting the United States of America and the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax provided for in this article.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this article.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
Sec. 12-50. - Administration and enforcement of article; records.
(a)
Authorized agents. Authorized agents of the city shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article.
(b)
Additional rules and regulations. Authorized agents of the city shall have the power and the authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws of the city and the state or the constitution of this state or the United States, for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of taxes under this article.
(c)
Required records. Every operator renting guestrooms in the city shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the city may require.
(d)
Examination of records. Authorized officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the city may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any person renting guestrooms and any person liable for the tax, and may investigate the character of the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports. In administration of the tax, the city may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or custody information relating to rentals of guestrooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the city when required by the city, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, and such other information as the city may require.
(f)
Confidentiality of information. Any person having an administrative duty under this article shall not make known, in any manner whatsoever, the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an audit of books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any operator or any other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits, losses or expenditure, or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or permit any return or copy thereof, or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof, to be seen or examined by any person not having administrative duty under this article. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees, and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the items included in the measure and amount of unpaid tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, and interest and penalties.
Sec. 12-51. - Levy; rate.
There shall be paid a tax of six percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guestroom in a hotel in the city.
Sec. 12-52. - Persons liable for tax; extinguishment of liability.
Every person occupying a guestroom in a hotel in this city is liable for the tax imposed by this article. His liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to the city, except that a receipt is sufficient to relieve the occupant from further liability for the tax to which the receipt refers, provided such receipt is from an operator maintaining a place of business in the city or from an operator who is authorized by the city under such rules and regulations prescribed, to collect the tax and who is, for the purpose of this article, regarded as an operator maintaining a place of business in the city.
Sec. 12-53. - Exemptions.
No tax shall be imposed under this article upon:
(1)
A permanent resident.
(2)
A corporation or association organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable or educational purposes, or for more than one of such purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
(3)
An occupant whose rent will be paid directly by warrant on funds of the federal, state or city government, or any other government within the state or the United States.
Sec. 12-54. - Registration of operators; certificate of authority.
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel in the city shall immediately register with the city, on a form provided by the city. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business, the location of the place of business, and such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax as authorized agents of the city may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in the case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner; and in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or someone specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the registration. The city shall, within ten days after such registration, issue without charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect the tax from the occupant, together with a duplicate thereof for each additional place of business of such registrant. Each certificate and duplicate shall state the place of business to which it is applicable, and shall be prominently displayed therein so as to be seen and come to the notice readily of all occupants and persons seeking occupancy. Such certificate shall be nonassignable, and shall be returned to the city upon the cessation of business at the location named or upon its sale or transfer.
Sec. 12-55. - Collection by operator.
Every operator maintaining a place of business in the city as provided in section 12-52, and renting guestrooms in the city, shall collect the tax imposed by this article at the time of collecting the rent from the occupant, and on demand shall give the occupant a receipt therefor. In all cases of transactions upon credit or deferred payment, the payment of the tax to the operator may be deferred in accordance therewith, and the operator shall be liable therefor at the time and to the extent that such credits are incurred in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the amount thereof. The city council shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment of the tax.
Sec. 12-56. - Unlawful advertising regarding tax.
It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to the public or to any guest, directly or indirectly, that the tax imposed by this article or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rental of the guestroom, or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
Sec. 12-57. - Returns; payment.
(a)
Due date for payment. The tax imposed by this article shall become due and payable from the occupant at the time of occupancy of any hotel in the city. All amounts of such taxes collected by an operator are due and payable to the city between the first and 20th day of the calendar month next following the calendar month or fiscal period for which the return is being filed.
(b)
Filing of return. Each operator or person liable for payment of the tax shall file a return monthly with the city in such form as the city may prescribe.
(c)
Contents of return. All returns shall show the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, rents exempt from tax, taxable rent, amount of tax collected, or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as required by the city.
(d)
Collection allowance. Operators collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction for submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if such amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be three percent of the amount due.
(e)
Extension of time for filing return or paying tax. For good cause, the city may extend, for a period not to exceed one month, the time for making any return or payment of tax. No further extension of time may be granted. Any person to whom an extension of time has been granted, who makes a return and pays the tax within the period of extension, shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest on the amount thereof at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, for the period of such extension, to the time of making the return and payment.
Sec. 12-58. - Deficiency or overpayment; late payment.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the city is not satisfied with the returns of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, it may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within its possession or that may come into its possession. One or more than one deficiency determination may be made of the amount due for one or more than one period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency or late payment. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the first day after the close of the prior monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the city may offset overpayment for a period against underpayments for another period, against penalties, and against the interest on underpayments. However, if it is determined by the city that overpayment of occupancy tax was made by the occupants to the operator, all overpayments of tax will be made to the city without any operator's compensation for collection of the overpayment.
(d)
Penalty for delinquent payment. When a return or remittance is delinquent, the operator shall not be allowed the applicable compensation for accounting for and remitting the tax, and he must remit the total amount due. The total amount due is the gross tax, without deduction for the operator's compensation, plus interest, plus a specific penalty, to be added to the tax, of ten percent of the gross tax due per month, from the first day after the close of each monthly period for which the tax is due until the date of payment.
(e)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade tax. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is due to fraud or an intent to evade any provision of this article or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto in addition to interest and penalties due to late payment.
(f)
Service of notices. Authorized agents of the city shall give to the operator written notice of its determination under this section. The notice may be served personally or by mail. If served by mail, the notice shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the city. In case of service by mail of any notice required by this article, the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post office.
(g)
Time limit for service of notice of deficiency determination. Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this article or authorized rules or regulations, or failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the fifth day of the calendar month for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period expires later.
Sec. 12-59. - Collection of unpaid tax; refunds.
(a)
Determination of tax when no return made. If any person fails to make a return as required by this article, the city shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return, and shall be based upon any information which is in the possession of city, or which may come into its possession. Upon the basis of this estimate, the city shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid the city, adding to the sum, per month, from the day after the close of each monthly period for which tax is due until the date of payment, a penalty equal to ten percent thereof. One or more than one determination may be made for one or for more than one period.
(b)
Notice to persons holding credits or property of delinquent taxpayer. If any person is delinquent in the payment of the amount required to be paid by him, or if a determination has been made against him which remains unpaid, the city may, not later than three years after the payment becomes delinquent, give notice thereof by registered mail to all persons in the city who have in their possession or under their control any credits or other personal property belonging to the delinquent person, or owing any debts to the delinquent person. After receiving the notice, the persons so notified may not transfer or dispose of any such credits, other personal property or debts in their possession or under their control at the time they receive the notice until the city consents to a transfer or disposition or until 20 days elapse after the receipt of the notice. All persons so notified shall, within five days after receipt of the notice, advise the city of all such credits, other personal property or debts in their possession, under their control or owing by them.
(c)
Action to collect tax. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the city may bring an action in the courts of this state or any other state, or of the United States, in the name of the city, to collect the amount delinquent, together with penalties and interest, court fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(d)
Duty of successors of operator to withhold tax from purchase money. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assignees shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such obligation until the former owner produces a receipt from the city showing that the city has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(e)
Failure of successor of operator to withhold tax. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold the tax from the purchase price as required by this section, he becomes personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him, to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within 30 days after purchase, the city shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the city of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. Failure of the city to mail the notice will release the purchaser from any further obligation to withhold the tax from the purchase price as provided in this section. The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells out his business, or at the time the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event occurs later.
(f)
Refunds. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this article, it may be refunded, provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the city council within three years from the date of payment. The claim shall be audited and shall be made on forms provided by the city. If the claim is approved by the city council, the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited on any amounts that are due and payable from the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid and the balance executors.
Sec. 12-60. - Failure to register or furnish return or other data; making false return or report.
Any operator or other person who:
(1)
Fails to register as required in this article;
(2)
Fails to furnish any return required to be made;
(3)
Fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the city; or
(4)
Renders a false or fraudulent return;
is guilty of an offense. Any person required to make, render, sign, or verify any report under this article who makes any false or fraudulent report with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due under this article is guilty of an offense.
Secs. 12-61—12-78. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OCCUPATION TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Occupation tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 12-79. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Location of office shall not include a temporary work site which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business for revenue raising purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. The term "practitioner of profession or occupation" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license, fees, permit fees, or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession, or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city. The term "regulatory fee" may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-22)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 12-80. - Application of provisions to prior ordinances.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided:
(1)
For the issuing and enforcing the execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances;
(2)
That imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax;
(3)
For failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in said ordinance; or
(4)
Failure to comply with any other provisions hereof;
shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee, or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-40)
Sec. 12-81. - Requirement for public hearing.
After January 1, 1996, the council shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-42)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6.
Sec. 12-82. - Enforcement of provisions.
It is hereby made the duty of the city manager, city clerk and authorized law enforcement to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed and to summon all violators of the same to appear before the court. It is hereby made the further duty of the city manager, city clerk and authorized law enforcement, and their assistants to inspect all registrations issued by the city as often as it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted hereunder.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-41)
Sec. 12-83. - Required for dealings in the city.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession, or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the city, such business tax registration shall be shown to the city clerk or to any authorized law enforcement officer upon request.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-21)
Sec. 12-84. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee in the amount established by the city shall be required on all business and occupation tax accounts for the initial startup, renewal, or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9 on those applicable businesses. The regulatory fee schedule for persons in occupations and professions is as follows:
Building and construction contractors, $5.00 for each subcontractor and worker
Carnivals
Taxicab and limousine operators
Tattoo artists
Stables
Shooting galleries and firearm ranges
Scrap metal processors
Pawnbrokers
Food service establishments
Dealers in precious metals
Firearms dealers
Peddlers
Parking lots
Nursing and personal care homes
Newspaper vending boxes
Modeling agencies
Massage parlors
Landfills
Auto and motorcycle racing
Boardinghouses
Businesses which provide appearance bonds
Boxing and wrestling promoters
Hotels and motels
Hypnotists
Handwriting analysts
Health clubs, gyms and spas
Fortunetellers
Garbage collectors
Escort services
Burglar and fire alarm installers
Locksmiths
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-23)
State Law reference— Regulatory fee, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9; administrative fee, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10.
Sec. 12-85. - Tax levied.
(a)
An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the corporate limits of the city and/or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner as follows:
One to three employees, per employee .....$30.00
Four to eight employees, per employee .....25.00
Nine to 99 employees, per employee .....15.00
Plus administrative fee .....25.00
(b)
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the corporate limits of the city in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager, or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of employees from commencing date to the end of the calendar year.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-24; Ord. of 4-2-2012(2))
State Law reference— Levy of occupation tax, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7.
Sec. 12-86. - Imposed on businesses with no state location.
Registration and assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions with no location or office in the state if the business' largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the city and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-25)
State Law reference— Levy of tax on persons with no location in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 12-87. - Dominant business lines to be identified on business registrations.
The business registration of each business operated in the city shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-26)
Sec. 12-88. - Multiple business locations.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-27)
Sec. 12-89. - Election of tax.
(a)
Practitioners of professions, as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(c)(18), shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees.
(2)
A fee of $50.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to the number of employees of the business or practitioner. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
(3)
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by January 1 of each year.
(b)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-28)
State Law reference— Taxation of professions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(e).
Sec. 12-90. - Tax due and payable.
(a)
Each such occupation tax shall be for the calendar year, unless otherwise specifically provided. Said registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall, if not paid by January 30 of each year, be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. On any new profession or trade, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business and a $25.00 penalty imposed. The tax registration herein provided for shall be issued by the city clerk and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after said registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any kind of profession, trade, or calling subject to this article without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall be guilty of an offense.
(b)
In addition to the remedies in subsection (a) of this section, an authorized law enforcement officer may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-29)
Sec. 12-91. - Evidence of state registration required.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state, pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43, shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-31)
Sec. 12-92. - Evidence of qualification.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of a city business registration, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-32)
Sec. 12-93. - Businesses not covered by this article; charitable exemption.
(a)
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marking associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 32-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal and hulls.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(b)
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from such tax or registration on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 80 percent or more of the entire proceeds from such business is devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-30, 2-5-34)
Sec. 12-94. - Special provisions for insurance companies.
(a)
Insurer license fees. There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $15.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $15.00. For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(b)
License fee for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations. For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits, or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional annual license fee of $10.00 per location.
(c)
Insurance agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc. not otherwise licensed. There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section, in the amount of $30.00 for each such location within the city.
(d)
Gross premium tax imposed on life insurers. There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the city an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this subsection, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this subsection is in addition to the license fees imposed by subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Gross premium tax, all other insurers. There is hereby levied an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the city in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this subsection, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(f)
Due date for license fees. License fees imposed in subsections (a) through (c) of this section shall be due and payable on February 15 of each year.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-35)
Sec. 12-95. - Multiple locations or lines of businesses.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, said business shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for each location and line and pay an occupation tax in accordance with the prevailing taxing method and tax rate for each location and line.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-36)
Sec. 12-96. - Books and records inspections.
In any case the city council, through its officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The city shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city and, upon demand of the city clerk, city manager, or authorized law enforcement officer, such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of ten percent will be assessed for the period delinquent.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-37)
Sec. 12-97. - Revocation for failure to pay.
(a)
Upon the failure of any business to pay said occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make any of said returns within the time required herein, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as above provided, any business tax registration granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of said business to do business for the current year shall be ipso facto revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the city for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax herein provided for is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm, corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the city clerk in accordance with provisions found in section 12-96. In the case of those practitioners, when the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(b)
Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees, who do business in the city after the registration for said business has been revoked as specified in section 12-94 shall be subject to penalties provided herein. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either a percentage of the amount due or a flat fee fine.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-38)
Sec. 12-98. - Lien for delinquent taxes.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the occupation tax herein levied, the city clerk or city manager, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the person liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the rate of 12 percent per annum from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent. The lien shall cover the property in the city or the person liable for said tax, all as provided by the ordinances and charter of the city and the laws of the state. The lien of said occupation tax shall become fixed on and dated from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by a law enforcement officer authorized by the city upon the property of the defendant located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as is provided by ordinances and charter of said city and the law of the state.
(Ord. of 1995, § 2-5-39)
Secs. 12-99—12-146. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND CANVASSING

Sec. 12-147. - Registration.
(a)
Requirement. Any person peddling, soliciting, or canvassing within the city shall be required to register and obtain an identification card as provided by this article.
(b)
Fee; identification card. Any person desiring to peddle, solicit, or canvass within the city shall pay to the city clerk or his designated representative a registration fee as fixed from time to time by the council and shall make application with the chief of police for an identification card which shall show payment of the registration fee and the days that the registrant has registered to peddle, solicit, or canvass within the city.
(c)
Exhibition of registration card. Each registrant shall at all times while in the city have upon his person the registration card and shall exhibit the same when requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or by any municipal authority and by any person being solicited. Possession of this registration card shall not in any way represent an endorsement or approval of any products or project by the city.
(d)
Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle, canvass or solicit after sundown. It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle within the fire zone of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle, canvass, or solicit without having registered with the city clerk in accordance with this article or to peddle, solicit, or canvass without having on his person and in his possession an identification card issued in accordance with this article.
(Code 1986, §§ 7-2-1, 7-2-4)
Secs. 12-148—12-168. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - BILLIARD AND POOL ROOMS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local regulation of billiards, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-1 et seq.; municipal authority to enact additional regulations, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-6.

Sec. 12-169. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Billiard room means any public place where the game of billiards is permitted to be played and for which a charge is made for use of equipment.
Billiards means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic edge of cushions, with balls which are impelled by a cue, and includes all forms of the game known as "carom billiards," "pocket billiards" (formerly called pool) and "English billiards."
(Code 1986, § 7-3-2; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-170. - Unlawful hours.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or manager of any billiard or pool room in the city to permit such establishment to be open for business after 11:00 p.m. each night, or before 9:00 a.m. each morning. It shall be unlawful for any billiard room to operate billiard tables on Sunday.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-4; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-171. - Minors prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge of or control of any pool room or billiard room open to the public to admit into such room any minor, whether for the purpose of playing billiards or pool or not.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-5; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-172. - Clear view of premises required.
The owner, operator, or manager of any billiard or pool room in the city shall not permit to be used on such premises any screens, shades, partitions, or other devices of like character which shall have the effect of obstructing the view through the windows or doors of the place where the billiard or pool tables are kept. In addition thereto, any billiard room shall have a minimum of 30 square feet of unobstructed window space on the entrance side of the establishment.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-6; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-173. - Gambling unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator, or manager of any billiard or pool room open for public use to allow gambling of any kind to occur upon such premises.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-7; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-174. - No intoxicating liquors.
No person shall be allowed upon the premises who is under the influence of intoxicants or who is using intoxicants, and it shall be the duty of the operator of the establishment to have removed from the premises of the billiard establishment any person intoxicated or using intoxicants in any manner.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-8; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-175. - Requirements prior to licensing.
All requirements of this article or any amendments enacted thereafter shall be met in total prior to the issuance of any license for the operation of a billiard room.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-9; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-176. - Violations.
Upon the violation or alleged violation of any of the provisions of this article, the council shall have the right to suspend temporarily any license granted under this article and such temporary suspension shall be in full force and effect until the next regularly scheduled council meeting of the city. At such regularly scheduled council meeting, the licensee shall be given an opportunity to show cause why his license should not be permanently revoked for violation of the provisions of this article. At such hearing, if it is determined that the provisions of this article have been violated, the council, by a majority vote, may suspend permanently the license granted herein, and the same shall be revoked for cause.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-10; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-177. - Posting.
Every licensee shall post in the establishment licensed herein a full copy of this article in a conspicuous place for the information of his patrons.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-11; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
Sec. 12-178. - Club and other billiard rooms not affected by article provisions.
The provisions of this article shall not be construed to include billiard tables or billiard rooms operated by private industrial concerns, Young Men's Christian Associations, religious orders, charitable institutions, state, county or city institutions, fraternal orders, or bona fide clubs using such tables for members or employees only.
(Code 1986, § 7-3-12; Ord. of 2-11-1981)
