ARTICLE 2. - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED

Sec. 201. - Interpretation of certain common terms.
When used in this ordinance, the following words and phrases have the meaning as defined in this article. Terms not defined here have the same meaning as is found in most dictionaries, where consistent with the context. The terms "must," "will," and "shall" are mandatory in nature, indicating that an action has to be done. The term "may" is permissive and allows discretion regarding an action. When consistent with the context, words used in the singular number include the plural, and those used in the plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense include the future. The word "developer" includes a "firm," "corporation," "co-partnership," "association," "institution," or "person." The word "lot" includes the words "plot" and "parcel." The word "building" includes the word "structure." The words "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building include in its meaning the words "intended," "arranged," or "designed," "to be used" or "occupied."
Sec. 202. - General definitions.
A.
Administrative officer: One of the persons, officers or officials or his authorized representative, whom the county manager of Spalding County has designated as its agent for the administration of these regulations.
B.
Agriculture: The raising of soil crops, livestock, fish, fowl, and commercial timber in a customary manner on tracts of land at least three (3) acres in size, including all associated activities. Retail selling of products raised on the premises is permitted provided that space necessary for the parking of customers' vehicles is provided off the public right-of-way.
B'.
Agriculture-tourism or agritourism enterprise: An entity that owns or operates a farm (as that term is defined in section 202(FF), subject to the limitations contained in this article) which offers to the public the opportunity to participate, observe or otherwise engage, for the purposes of recreation, education, or active involvement, in the farm's operation. An agriculture-tourism enterprise may engage in and conduct all those uses (whether primary or accessory or permitted as a matter of right or as a special exception) in the agriculture-tourism zoning district.
B''.
Agritourism: The business or practice of offering to the general public the opportunity to visit a farm for recreation, education, entertainment, events or active involvement and participation in the operation and activities (other than as a contractor or employee) of the farm.
C.
Airport: A transportation terminal facility where aircraft take off and land.
D.
Airstrip, private: An area designated for the take-off and landing of private, non-commercial aircraft, with no terminal facilities and no scheduled take-offs and landings.
E.
Alley: A secondary way that affords access to the side or rear of abutting property.
F.
Alteration: Any change in the supporting members of a building, any modification or change in construction, any addition that increases the area or height, any change in use from that of one district classification to another, or movement of a building from one location to another.
G.
Antenna:
a.
Any exterior apparatus designed for telephone, radio or television communication through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves;
b.
Communications equipment that transmits, received, or transmits and received electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services or other wireless communications; or
c.
Communications equipment similar to equipment described in subparagraph (b) of this section used for the transmission, reception or transmission and reception of surface waves.
d.
Antennas designed for television broadcasts, amateur radio use, or satellite dishes for residential or household purposes are not included within this definition.
G'.
Antenna, domestic: Any antenna, as defined in section 202.G., used primarily for residential purposes and which does not exceed eighteen (18) feet in diameter. In addition thereto, this definition shall include any exterior apparatus (of whatever diameter) affixed to an amateur radio tower owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator.
H.
Automobile service station: A land use where gasoline, oils, greases, batteries, tires, and general automobile accessories may be provided, but where no part of the premises is used for the storage or dismantling of wrecked or junked vehicles.
H'.
Bathroom: A room, with a door that closes and locks, which must contain a sink, toilet and tub or shower.
H".
Bed and breakfast: A building other than a hotel, used for overnight accommodation for compensation, provided that:
(1)
Guests normally stay no longer than seven (7) days;
(2)
Breakfast is the only meal served, if any, on the premises;
(3)
The building is not to be used for residential occupancy any length of time, other than by the owner of the bed and breakfast and his family.
I.
Block: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways or streets, other than alleys.
J.
Board of commissioners: The Board of Commissioners of Spalding County.
K.
Boarding or rooming house: A building designed for residential occupancy which has a common feeding area and which is used as a place to lodge three (3) or more persons for compensation.
L.
Buffer: That portion of a lot established for open space purposes and intended to separate properties with different and possibly incompatible types of use. A buffer shall not be occupied with structures and facilities except for septic tank drain fields and as permitted by this ordinance. Where encroachment of the buffer is allowed, vegetation disturbance shall be kept to the minimum required for the installation and vegetation that is removed during the process shall be replaced with suitable landscape material that provides the same quality of screening. Where required by this ordinance, a buffer must include the installation of a suitable visual screen in accordance with the provisions contained in Article 4. Developments for which a preliminary plat has been approved prior to the adoption of this amendment that include "undisturbed buffers" will be allowed to locate septic drain fields in said buffers as long as they the minimal disturbance and replacement criteria of this paragraph are met.
M.
Building: Any structure having a roof and intended for shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
N.
Building, accessory: A structure used for a purpose that is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure, and located on the same lot as such a principal use or structure.
O.
Building, principal: The building on a lot in which the principal use of the lot is conducted.
P.
Building height: The vertical distance of a building, measured from the average elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the building.
Q.
Building line: The line that represents the distance a building must be set back from the boundary line of a lot, measured at the foundation of the building.
R.
Building official: One of the persons, officers or officials or his authorized representative, whom the county manager has appointed to administer and enforce the building code.
R'.
Campground, religious: A retreat or meeting placed used for the conduct of religious worship, discussion and consultation, which may include recreational activities of an outdoor nature and overnight accommodations. A church as defined in section 202(U) may be included within the use, incidental to the primary function of said property as a campground. Any congregation, congregation being defined as two or more persons meeting together for religious purposes, meeting for regularly scheduled services, may meet no more than twelve (12) consecutive months from the date of the first meeting.
S.
Cemetery: Land either already reserved for burial plots for the deceased, or which may, in the future, be so reserved; it may be maintained either by a family, a church or other place of worship, or a private corporation.
T.
Center line, street: That line surveyed and monumented by the governing authority as the center line of a street, or if such a center line has not been surveyed, it is the line running midway between the outside curbs or ditches of the street.
U.
Church: A building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship, which is used only for such purpose, along with any accessory activities as are customarily associated therewith.
V.
Clinic: An establishment where medical or dental patients are admitted for examination and treatment, but where there is no overnight lodging.
W.
Club or lodge: An incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political, recreation, or like activities, operated for the benefit of its members and not open to the general public.
W'.
Conservation subdivision: Any division of real property designed to preserve greenspace and undeveloped land which meets the development and design requirements of Article 7 of the Spalding County Subdivision Ordinance, Appendix A, and which is approved by Spalding County pursuant to the procedures as set forth therein.
X.
Curb cut: The point at which vehicular access is provided to an adjoining street from a lot.
Y.
Density: The number of dwelling units per acre of land use for residential purposes. Unless otherwise stated, density figures are to be in terms of net acres, or the land devoted to residential use exclusive of streets or other public lands.
Z.
Domesticated animal: An animal that is accustomed to living in or about the habitation of humans, such as dogs and cats. This definition does not include livestock.
Z'.
Drug abuse treatment and education program: "Drug abuse treatment and education program" or "program" means any system of treatment or therapeutic advice or counsel provided for the rehabilitation of drug dependent persons and shall include programs offered in residential and/or non-residential settings. It otherwise complies with Chapter 290-4-2: Drug Treatment Program (Rules of the Department of Human Resources).
AA.
Easement: The right or privilege of using another's property, for purposes such as constructing and maintaining sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewers, gas lines, bicycle paths, pedestrian ways.
BB.
Elevation, front: The view of a building or group of buildings as seen from directly in front of the structure.
CC.
Employee, full-time: A person who works or is scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week for one (1) employer.
DD.
Equipment, heavy: Any equipment which has a gross vehicle weight, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, of more than fifty-six thousand (56,000) pounds.
(DD')
Event center, rural: A venue typically located in a rural setting, with or without permanent structures, at which private social events not open to the general public are conducted, including but not limited to, dances, meetings, parties, picnics, receptions, retreats, reunions, weddings, wedding rehearsals, wedding parties, or similar events, with or without live entertainment, where food and drink may be consumed on premises but which provides no overnight accommodations.
EE.
Family: Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, including up to three (3) additional unrelated individuals, not related by blood, marriage or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit.
FF.
Farm: Any tract or parcel of land containing three (3) or more acres that is devoted to the raising of agricultural products, including, but not limited to, soil crops, livestock, fish, fowl, and commercial timber regardless of the quantity or value of production.
FF'.
Fence: A barrier erected upon, or immediately adjacent to, a property line for the purpose of separating properties, or for screening, enclosing, and/or protecting the property within its perimeter.
FF''.
Flea market: A retail market located in commercial districts usually held outdoors where antiques, used household goods, and curios are sold.
GG.
Flood boundary: That area threatened by possible flood under normal to severe circumstance; determined as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), July 2, 1991.
HH.
Floor area: The area of a dwelling exclusive of attic, basement, garage, carport, patios, and open porches measured from the exterior face of the exterior walls of a dwelling. Also, the gross leasable floor area for any business or industry based on interior dimensions.
HH'.
Foster care child facilities: A building or group of buildings, a facility or place in which is provided one (1) or more beds and other facilities and services - including rooms, meals and personal care for minors under the age of nineteen (19) years which complies with the rules and regulations contained in Chapter 290-2-5 (Rules and Regulations for Child Caring Institutions, Georgia Department of Human Resources). For the purposes of this ordinance, foster care child facilities are classified as follows:
1.
Foster home: A private home where the foster parent(s) live which has been approved by the Georgia Department of Human Resources to provide twenty-four-hour care, lodging, supervision and maintenance for no more than six (6) children under the age of nineteen (19).
2.
Child caring institution: A child-welfare agency that is any institution, society, agency or facility (whether incorporated or not) which either primarily or incidentally provides full-time care for children through eighteen (18) years of age outside of their own homes which has been approved by the Georgia Department of Human Resources to provide room, board, lodging, supervision and maintenance for six (6) or more children.
II.
Garage, public: Any garage, other than a private garage, which is used for storage, minor repair, rental, servicing, washing, adjusting, or equipping of automobiles or other motor vehicles, but not including the storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
JJ.
Garage, repair: A public garage intended to be used to make major commercial automobile, motorcycle, lawn mower, or other motor vehicle repairs; such a use should meet the following development standards as well as all other applicable regulations:
1.
All body work and painting must be conducted within a fully enclosed building.
2.
No open storage of junk, wrecked vehicles, dismantled parts, or supplies visible beyond the premises is permitted.
KK.
Garage or carport, private: A covered space for the storage of one (1) or more motor vehicles belonging to the occupants of the lot and ancillary to the principal residential use on the lot. No business occupation or service may be conducted for profit within the private garage except a home occupation under conditions specified in section 202.LL.
KK'.
Garage or carport, private, double: A garage or carport, private as defined in section 202.KK. for the storage of at least, but no more than, two (2) motor vehicles and having a minimum width of nineteen (19) feet.
KK".
Group development: A group of buildings constructed on a plot of land not subdivided into customary streets and lots and which will not be so subdivided, intended to be operated under one (1) management or under a condominium type ownership arrangements, known herein as a group development project.
KK'''.
Group home, transitional: A residence where two (2) or more unrelated persons live that is under the supervision of a resident manager. Homes providing extended shelter and supportive services for individuals and/or families with the goal of helping them live independently and transition into permanent housing. Group homes shall not provide treatment of drug or alcohol dependency, or provide an alternative to incarceration.
LL.
Home occupation, minor: An occupation for gain or support conducted by resident(s) on the premises meeting the following criteria:
1.
The home is being used solely for the purpose of maintaining a business address, with no work being performed on the premises, or the home is being used solely for the purpose of office administration, record keeping and other clerical work;
2.
No employees or customers may come to the home as a business site; and
3.
The home occupation must also satisfy the criteria for a home occupation contained in section 202.LL'.
LL'.
Home occupation, general: An occupation for gain or support conducted by residents on the premises, ancillary and accessory to the main agricultural or residential use on the property, meeting the following criteria:
1.
No home occupation shall employ more than two (2) persons who work on the premises but who do not reside in the dwelling located on the premises.
2.
The home occupation must be incidental and subordinate to the residential use of the dwelling and must not change the residential character of the property.
3.
No display of products shall be visible from the street.
4.
Use of the principal and/or accessory building(s) for the home occupation shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the combined gross floor area of the principal and accessory buildings.
5.
No internal or external alterations shall be permitted which would change the fire rating for the structure.
6.
No continuous unenclosed outside storage of materials or supplies used in connection with the home occupation shall be permitted, provided that this restriction shall not preclude the conduct of minor outside home gardening activities in conjunction with a home occupation.
7.
All parking for the home occupation shall be located on the property and only in the side or rear yards.
8.
Only vehicles designed and used primarily as passenger vehicles (including pickup trucks) shall be used in connection with home occupations in R-1, R-2, R-4 and R-5 zoning districts.
9.
A home occupation, general may be approved on an interim or preliminary basis for such time and under such conditions as may be set by the board of commissioners. When the interim or preliminary approval concludes, the operation and conduct of home occupation, general will be reviewed by the zoning administrator or his designee to determine whether its operation during the interim or preliminary period has complied with Section 413 of this ordinance and with any conditions of approval imposed thereon. The zoning administrator or his designee shall provide a report thereon to the board of commissioners.
LL"
Hospice facility: A facility providing care to patients diagnosed with a terminal illness operated by a person or organization licensed as a hospice by the Georgia Department of Human Resources an which complies with Georgia Rules and Regulations 290-9-43.24 governing hospice care facilities.
MM.
Hotel: A building in which overnight accommodations, without separate cooking facilities, are provided to the public. The term "hotel" includes the terms "motel" and "tourist court."
NN.
Industrialized building: Any structure or component thereof, which is, wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof; and which bears the insignia of approval issued by the Commissioner of the Georgia Department of Community Affairs.
OO.
Institution: A non-profit corporation, establishment, or entity; for public or semi-public use.
PP.
Intermediate care home: A facility that admits residents on medical referral. It maintains the services and facilities for institutional care and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies. It otherwise complies with the rules and regulations contained in Chapter 290-5-9: Intermediate Care Homes (Rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources).
QQ.
Junkyard: Any use involving the parking, storage or disassembly of three (3) or more junked vehicles, or wrecked or non-operable automobiles, trucks, or other vehicles; storage, bailing, or otherwise dealing in scrap iron and other metals, used plumbing fixtures, old stoves, old refrigerators, and other old household appliances, and used brick, wood, or other building materials. These uses are considered junkyards whether or not all or part of these operations are conducted inside a building or in connection with, in addition to, or accessory to other uses of the premises.
RR.
Junked or abandoned motor vehicle:
1.
Any wrecked or non-operable automobile, truck, or other vehicle that does not bear a current license plate. Junked motor vehicle shall also mean a motor vehicle, which cannot be returned to road-worthy condition or is not restored to road-worthy condition within fifteen (15) days from the owner or person in possession of same being ordered by the enforcement officer to either restore the motor vehicle to road-worthy condition or remove it in compliance with section 7-2003 of the Code of Spalding County. Any junked motor vehicle or parts thereof shall be stored in such a manner as to fully and completely enclose the junked motor vehicle or parts thereof to prevent it from being seen from any public street or from any other private property owned by anyone other than the owner of the junked motor vehicle or parts thereof.
SS.
Kennel: The housing for four (4) or more dogs, cats or other domesticated animals for the purpose of providing an income or revenue. For purposes of this definition, any domesticated animal over the age of six (6) months shall be included.
SS 1 .
Livestock: Domesticated cattle, horses, sheep, goats, pigs, cervidae animals, capradae animals, animal of the genus llama, flightless birds (ratites), enclosed domesticated rabbits or hares and any other animal specifically raised for food or fiber.
TT.
Loading space: Space logically and conveniently located for pickup and delivery service, scaled to the vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles at all time.
UU.
Lot: A parcel of land under single ownership occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more buildings and customarily incidental accessory buildings or uses, including such open spaces as are required by this ordinance.
VV.
Lot, corner: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
WW.
Lot, double frontage: A lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on more than one (1) street.
WW 1 .
Lot, frontage width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the common boundary of the lot and a public road.
WW ii
Lot, flag or panhandle: Any lot for which the frontage width is less than the minimum required in the applicable zoning district. Flag or panhandle lots are prohibited.
XX.
Lot width: The distance between side lot lines measured at the front building line. If a corner lot, the distance between lot lines measured along the front building line that parallels or more nearly parallels the rear lot line.
XX 1 .
Master development plan: A written and graphic submission for a planned development which represents a tract of land, proposed subdivision, the location and bulk of buildings and other structures, density of development, public and private streets, parking facilities, common open space, public facilities and all covenants relating to use thereof. The master development plan is submitted in conjunction with a rezoning application for the planned development district.
XX ii
Mini-warehouse/self-storage facility: A structure or group of structures containing separate spaces or stalls which are leased for the storage of goods and personal property. An area for common storage of boats, travel trailers or other vehicles may be included.
XX iii
Net buildable area: The net buildable area is calculated by subtracting the floodplain and wetland acreage from the total project tract acreage. The resulting acreage is the net buildable area.
XX iv .
Mobile food service unit: A mobile food service unit is a motorized, wheeled vehicle designed and utilized for the preparation and sale of food and non-alcoholic beverage items to the general public, and whose operations are self-contained within the confines of the vehicle. Such vehicles shall operate in accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, the rules, regulations and policies of the Georgia Department of Public Health for Mobile Food Services/Food Trucks, and the rules and regulations for food service of Spalding County and the Spalding County Health Department.
YY.
Nursing home: A facility that admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision. It maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, rehabilitative nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical and/or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home. It otherwise complies with the rules and regulations contained in Chapter 290-5-8: Nursing Homes (Rules of the Georgia Department of Human Resources).
ZZ.
Official map: The map entitled "The Official Zoning Map of Spalding County, Georgia," indicating the locations of zoning district boundaries in Spalding County.
ZZ'.
Open space: Undeveloped land set aside permanently for common use. Conventional swimming pools, tennis courts, and associated parking areas are not considered open space for the purposes of this ordinance. Open space may include trails, picnic areas, park, gazebos, etc.
ZZ".
Overall development density: Overall development density is calculated by dividing the net buildable area by the total number of proposed building lots.
AAA.
Parking space: The storage space for one (1) motor vehicle. (See Standard Building Code of SBCCI for dimension standards required of standard parking spaces and those accessible to handicapped persons.)
BBB.
Personal care home: Any dwelling, whether operated for profit or not which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service, and one or more personal services (including, but not limited to, individual assistance with or supervision of self-administered medication, assistance with ambulation and transfer and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and toileting) for two (2) or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage and permitted by the Department of Community Health pursuant to Georgia Rules and Regulations Chapter 111-8-62.
BBB 1 .
Personal care home, commercial district: A residential facility that is certified as a provider of medical assistance for Medicaid purposes pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter 4 of Title 49 having at least twenty-five (25) beds and providing, for compensation, protective care and oversight of ambulatory, non-related persons who need a monitored environment but who do not have injuries or disabilities which require chronic or convalescent care, including medical, nursing, or intermediate care. Personal care homes including those facilities which monitor daily residents' functioning and location, have the capability for crisis intervention, and provide supervision in areas of nutrition, medication, and provision of transient medical care. Such term does not include:
1.
Old age residences which are devoted to independent living units with kitchen facilities in which residents have the option of preparing and serving some or all of their own meals; or
2.
Boarding facilities that do not provide personal care;
and which are permitted by the Department of Community Health pursuant to Georgia Rules and Regulations Chapter 111-2-2.
BBB 2 .
Planned industrial development: An area within a planned development project designed for industrial uses with streets, utilities and common architectural controls regulated by a master development plan and restrictive covenants.
BBB 3 .
Planned neighborhood development: An area that encourages the coordination and harmony of a planned residential area and limited commercial activities such that the final development shall contain dwellings and various shops, stores and other facilities for the convenience of the residents of the development. A planned neighborhood development may contain single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, row houses, townhouses, multi-family dwellings or any combination thereof. Customary home occupations and residential accessory buildings and uses shall also be allowed. A limited amount of commercial activity, as permitted in a C-1A, neighborhood commercial zoning district shall be allowed and shall be of a kind, which in this opinion of the planning commission shall be most appropriate for the purposes of a planned neighborhood development.
BBB 4 .
Planned residential development: An area that encourages ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning and to assure the provision of parks and recreational facilities provided for the residents of the development. Planned residential developments may contain single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, row houses, townhouses, multi-family dwellings or a combination thereof. Customary home occupations and residential accessory buildings and uses shall also be allowed. However, multi-family dwellings shall not represent more than twenty-five (25) percent of the total dwelling units within the proposed development.
BBB 5 .
Planned residential/recreation/lodge development: An area that encourages the best possible site plans and building arrangement for recreational and lodging development. Such developments are sensitive to, and take into consideration, interrelationships between the natural environment, different architectural styles, relative scales of various structures, and other larger community setting in which the development is situated. A planned recreation/lodge development may contain hotels/motels, conference buildings, recreational/amusement activities, campgrounds, country clubs, and restaurants, and any accessory uses associated with the primary activity.
BBB 6 .
Planned shopping center: An area within a planned development which contains a group of commercial establishments having a building composition that is an architectural unit and is not a miscellaneous assemblage of stores; and is planned, developed, analyzed as a unit, related in location, size and type of shops to the trade area that the unit serves, and provides on-site parking in relation to the types and size of stores.
CCC.
Planning commission: The Spalding County Planning Commission.
DDD.
Plat: A map, plan, or layout of a county, city, town, section, or subdivision indicating the location and boundaries of properties.
EEE.
Public water: Water service provided by Spalding County or the City of Griffin.
FFF.
Public sewer: Sanitary sewer service provided or approved by Spalding County or the City of Griffin and which does not constitute an "on-site sewage management system" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 31-2-7 and the Rules and Regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Public Health Division Section 290-5-26.02(gg).
GGG.
Recycling center: A facility which may be held in public and/or private ownership and which is designated to sort and process materials (aluminum cans, glass, newspaper, tin, HPDE and PET plastics), which have been separated from waste normally discharged into sanitary landfills and sold for re-use in other markets.
HHH.
Right-of-way: A strip of land designed, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation and owned by a county or municipality.
HHH'.
Senior independent living facility: A multiple family residential facility for persons over the age of fifty-five (55) that can live without daily assistance, but for which services and amenities may be provided within the building at the option of the resident, such as meals, socialization and recreation.
HHH' 1 :
Shipping container: A single rigid, reusable, metal (generally, corrugated) box (regardless of size or dimensions) the original purpose of which is to ship, transport, or store goods, regardless of whether it (1) is used on a temporary or permanent basis; (2) is used for its original or another purpose; (3) is or is not a building or structure; and (4) is referred to as a freight, cargo, International Standards Organization ("ISO"), intermodal, shipping, sea, ocean, storage, or Conex container, box or can or other name.
HHH' 2 :
Shipping container, temporary: A shipping container (including, PODS® or other similar containers) temporarily located on a parcel for the purpose of moving, (re)construction, remodeling, temporary storage, or the like, meeting the following criteria:
(1)
Be located on the parcel for no more than ninety (90) days. The above temporary requirement may be varied by the Spalding County Board of Appeals for good cause shown; provided however, that such a variance shall be explicitly limited to the time required for effectuation of the limited purpose for which the shipping container was or is sought to be placed on the parcel.
(2)
Have signage posted thereon providing (a) the name, address and telephone number of the company or person who owns (or otherwise has a property interest in) the same; (b) the name, address and telephone number of the person who caused the same to be placed upon the parcel; (c) the date the same was place on the parcel; and (d) the date it is scheduled to be removed.
(3)
No more than one (1) temporary storage container or pod may be located on any one (1) parcel without the written authorization of the administrative officer.
HHH' 3 :
Shooting range, indoor: An indoor facility for the safe shooting of firearms that complies with the technical and operation standards of The 2012 National Rifle Association ("NRA") Range Source Book, regardless of whether the facility is open to the general public or open only to private membership.
HHH".
Storage, continuous unenclosed outside: Any on-premises storage of either raw materials or finished product located outside of a building and which is present or required by the ordinary use to which the parcel or tract is placed.
III.
Story: That portion of a building, not including a basement, between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
III'.
Story, first: The lowest story of any dwelling that is not a basement or half story.
III".
Story, half: Any portion of a story of a dwelling with a heated floor area less than two-thirds of the square footage of the entire footprint of the dwelling.
JJJ.
Street or road, arterial: A road that is on the Georgia State Highway System and is designated by a State Route number. Such a street primarily serves the purpose of moving traffic through the county. Connecting roads and access to adjacent property should be kept to a minimum on an arterial road, as these interfere with traffic flow, adversely affecting the capacity and safety of the road. (See Functional Classification of Thoroughfares in the Spalding County Comprehensive Plan.)
KKK.
Street or road, collector: A road that is not on the Georgia State Highway System. Such a road would usually serve to distribute traffic from individual lots to arterial streets or roads. They may also connect neighborhoods with one another. (See Functional Classification of Thoroughfares in the Spalding County Comprehensive Plan.
LLL.
Street or road, local: A road that serves adjacent property by providing access to the road network. A local street or road is characterized by short trips, low speeds, and small traffic volumes. The design of this type of road should be toward eliminating through traffic. (See Functional Classification of Thoroughfares in the Spalding County Comprehensive Plan.)
LLL'.
Street vendor: Retail businesses licensed to operate without permanent facilities which include roadside stands, tents, carts and tables, or vehicle used for the purpose of retail sales of goods.
MMM.
Structure: Anything constructed or erected that requires a fixed location on the ground or which is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
MMM'.
Subdivision, conservation: See: Conservation Subdivision (section 202(W')).
MMM".
Subdivision, infill: A subdivision of an existing lot of record which is identified as an "infill" development tract on the "Spalding County Infill Subdivision Tract Map" into lots of a size which are not less than one (1) acre in size for property which has access to public water but which does not have public sewer access or not less than one-half (½) acre in size for property which has both public water and public sewer access and for which access is obtained by either:
a.
A new road developed from the infill tract frontage along and existing street or road;
b.
The extension of a road providing access to the infill tract from existing adjoining residential development; or
c.
A road developed from a point within the adjoining residential development which was reserved for access into the undeveloped infill tract.
MMM'''.
Subdivision, minor: A division of land into parcels of three (3) or more acres which does not include the development of a new street or road.
NNN.
Subdivision:
1.
The division of a lot of record at the time of enactment of this ordinance into five (5) or more lots building sites, or other division for the purpose—whether immediate or future—of sale, legacy or building development.
2.
This definition does not include the following:
a.
The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resulting lots are at least equal to standards set forth in this ordinance.
b.
The division of land among heirs by judicial decree.
NNN'.
Tower: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one (1) or more antennas, including but not limited to, self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers and the like. This definition does not include a tower, domestic, as defined in section 202.NNN".
NNN".
Tower, domestic: Any tower, as defined in section 202.NNN'. used primarily for the purpose of supporting an antenna, domestic, and which does not exceed ten (10) feet in height. In addition thereto, the definition of tower, domestic, includes any amateur radio tower owned or operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator which is not greater than one hundred (100) feet in height.
OOO.
Use: Any purpose for which a building or tract of land may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; or any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on, or intended to be carried on, in a building or structure or a tract of land.
PPP.
Use, accessory: A use or structure customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure, and located on the same lot as the principal use or structure.
QQQ.
Reserved.
RRR.
Use, non-conforming: Use of land and/or buildings that does not conform to the regulations and standards of the district in which it is located, which lawfully existed at the time of adoption of this ordinance and is allowed to continue under the provisions for non-conforming uses (See section 403).
SSS.
Use, principal: The main purpose for which a lot is intended or for which it is used.
SSS'.
Utility substation: Any public or private utility facility which is designed for the purposes of switching, storage, transfer, rebroadcast or other transmission or re-transmission purposes, exclusive of individual transmission line, which provides services including (but not limited to) cable television, telephone, gas and electricity. This definition shall exclude any facility of the City of Griffin or Spalding County for the provision of electricity, water or sewer service.
TTT.
Variance: A permit issued by the board of appeals that allows use of a parcel of land in a way that varies from the requirements for the district in which the property is located. See section 411 for further details.
TTT'.
Wireless facility, small: Radio transceivers; surface wave couplers; antennas; coaxial, fiber optic or other cabling; power supply; backup batteries; and comparable and associated equipment, regardless of technological configuration, at a fixed location or fixed locations that enable communication or surface wave communication between user equipment and a communications network and the meet both of that following qualifications:
1.
Each wireless provider's antenna will fit within an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet in volume; and
2.
All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume, measured based upon the exterior dimensions of height by width by depth of any enclosure that may be used. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of the volume of all other wireless equipment associated with any such facility:
a.
Electric meters;
b.
Concealment elements;
c.
Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
d.
Grounding equipment;
e.
Power transfer switches;
f.
Cut-off switches; and
g.
Vertical cable runs for connection of power and other services.
3.
This term does not include a pole, decorative pole, or support structure on, under or within which the equipment is located or collocated or to which the equipment is attached and shall not include any wireline backhaul facilities or coaxial, fiber optic or other cabling that is between small wireless facilities, polies, decorative poles, or support structures or that is not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
UUU.
Yard: The open space on a lot that is left unoccupied with structures and facilities, except as permitted by this ordinance. A yard includes the area required for by this ordinance for a setback.
VVV.
Yard, front: The open space on a lot located between the right-of-way boundary of the abutting street and the front most line or portion of an existing structure as extended to the lot lines to either side. Any yard lying between an abutting street and the building lines is considered a front yard. For example, in the case of a corner lot which is abutted on two (2) sides by streets, both yards abutting the streets would be front yards; setbacks and other development standards for front yards would apply to both of these yards.
WWW.
Yard, rear: The open space located between the rear property line and the rear most line or portion of an existing structure as extended to the side lot lines.
XXX.
Yard, side: The open space located between the side property line and the side most line or portion of an existing structure as extended to the front and rear lot lines.
YYY.
Zoning district: One (1) or more sections of Spalding County, Georgia as delineated and designated on the official map, within which the zoning regulations are uniform.
(Res. of 10-1-96, § 1; Res. of 3-4-97, § 1; Res. of 6-17-97, §§ 1—3; Res. of 7-15-97, §§ 1—4; Res. of 10-7-97, § 1; Res. of 10-7-97, §§ 1, 2; Res. of 11-18-97, §§ 1—3; Res. of 5-19-98, §§ 1, 2; Res. No. 98-27, §§ 1—5, 11-17-98; Res. No. 99-01, § 1, 5-4-99; Res. No. A-00-22, § 1, 11-6-00; Res. No. A-00-10, §§ 1, 2, 12-21-00; Res. No. A-01-07, § 1, 5-7-01; Res. No. A-01-12, § 1, 8-6-01; Res. No. A-01-18, § 1, 2, 12-17-01; Res. No. A-03-29, § 1, 11-3-03; Res. No. A-03-32, §§ 2, 3, 12-15-03; Res. No. A-04-10, §§ 1, 2, 5-3-04; Res. of 11-15-04(2), § 1; Res. No. A-05-08, § 1, 5-16-05; Res. No. A-06-01, §§ 1, 2, 4-3-06; Res. No. A-06-04, § 2, 4-3-06; Res. No. A-08-06, § 1, 5-5-08; Res. No. A-08-07, §§ 1, 2, 7-7-08; Res. No. A-09-01, §§ 1, 2, 3-16-09; Res. No. A-09-04, § 3, 3-16-09; Res. No. A-09-11, §§ 1—4, 1-11-10; Res. No. A-11-04, § 1, 10-17-11; Res. No. A-12-04, § 1, 7-16-12; Res. No. A-16-01, §§ 1—8, 8-15-16; Res. No. A-17-01, § 1, 4-4-17; Res. No. A-18-04, § 1, 6-4-18; Res. No. A-18-07, §§ 2, 3, 7-16-18; Res. No. A-19-02, §§ 1—4, 4-15-19; Res. No. A-19-05, §§ 1—3, 7-15-19; Res. No. A-20-01, §§ 1—3, 5-28-20 ; Res. No. A-20-04, § 1, 6-25-20 ; Res. No. A-20-08, §§ 1, 2, 10-5-20 ; Res. No. A-20-10, §§ 1, 2, 2-15-21 ; Ord. No. 2022-007, § 1, 10-3-22)
Sec. 203. - Housing definitions.
A.
Conventional construction: A dwelling unit constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site; and which is constructed in accordance with the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI), and meeting the following development standards:
1.
The home has a minimum width in excess of sixteen (16) feet.
2.
The pitch of the dwelling unit's roof has a minimum vertical rise of four (4) feet for each twelve (12) feet of horizontal run, except that any such dwelling unit for which a building permit was applied prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the aforesaid building permit.
3.
For purposes of this definition, a unit of conventional construction constructed outside the boundaries of Spalding County may not be brought into Spalding County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed more than five (5) years from date application is requested.
4.
For purposes of this definition, no manufactured home (as defined in section 203(S—U)) may be attached to any conventionally constructed dwelling unit by means of breezeway, corridor or hallway.
B.
DCA: Georgia Department of Community Affairs of the State of Georgia.
C.
Doublewide: An obsolete term used to describe a mobile home or manufactured home having a width of generally between twenty (20) and twenty-eight (28) feet.
D.
Dwelling: A building or portion thereof designed, arranged, or used principally for residential occupancy, not including motels, hotels, boarding houses, or rooming houses.
E.
Dwelling, apartment: Three (3) or more dwelling units, under a single ownership, located on one (1) lot of land, occupied by renters.
E'.
Dwelling, barndominium or barn house: A non-traditional single structure constructed with a common roof which includes:
1.
A dwelling, single-family detached, with heated floor area, minimum which must separately meet the requirement for the zoning district in which it is located; and
2.
A barn, garage or carport, private, workshop or storage space the square footage of which is not included in the calculation of the heated floor area, minimum of the dwelling, single-family detached, but which shall not exceed the heated floor area, minimum of the dwelling by a factor of three.
A barn (or other structure) detached from the dwelling is not included within this definition. Photographs of examples of barndominium or barn house exterior designs which meet this definition are available from the department of community development and are available upon request. The design of any proposed barndominium or barn house shall substantially comply therewith.
F.
Dwelling, cluster: One (1) of a series of attached and/or detached single-family individually owned dwelling units of conventional construction which may be set against one (1) or two (2) lot lines rather than in the middle of the lot, combined with joint ownership of common areas of buildings and grounds.
G.
Dwelling, condominium: An individually owned dwelling unit in an attached, detached, or multifamily structure, combined with joint ownership of common areas of the buildings and grounds.
H.
Dwelling, garden apartment: A multifamily dwelling one (1) or two (2) stories in height containing from one (1) to four (4) dwelling units, and where the area immediately surrounding the dwelling is landscaped and may contain recreational facilities for the private use of dwelling occupants.
H'.
Dwelling, infill: A single-family residential dwelling of conventional construction located on a lot of record within a platted subdivision constructed with a minimum heated floor area which equals or exceeds the average heated floor area of existing single-family residential dwellings located within the platted subdivision, provided each dwelling, infill shall have a minimum heated square footage of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet. The dwelling shall utilize the setbacks consisting of the average of the adjoining lots.
H".
Dwelling, loft residential: Part of a mixed-use development featuring multi-family (owner or renter occupied) uses over retail commercial or professional office space; the conversion of an existing commercial space into adaptive reuse of residential units; or the conversion of existing or formerly used commercial, industrial or warehouse space into adaptive reuse of residential units.
I.
Dwelling, multiple-family: A building designed, constructed, altered or used for three (3) or more adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall or walls and/or a party floor and ceiling connecting it with at least one (1) other dwelling unit located on one lot of land. A multiple-family dwelling may be apartments or condominiums.
J.
Dwelling, patio: A single-family dwelling in which all or a portion of the area required for side and rear yards may be consolidated into one (1) or more garden court spaces within the walls of the dwelling unit.
K.
Dwelling, single-family attached: A building containing two (2) or more single-family dwelling units joined at one (1) or more points by one (1) or more party walls or other common facilities (not including the walls of an enclosed courtyard or similar area) and with property lines separating each dwelling unit.
L.
Dwelling, single-family detached: A single residential detached building designed for or containing one (1) dwelling unit.
M.
Dwelling, townhouse: One of a series of three (3) or more attached dwelling units on separate lots that are separated from each other by fire walls extending at least from the lowest floor level to the roof.
N.
Dwelling, two-family: A detached dwelling designed, constructed, altered, or used for two (2) adjoining dwelling units, with each dwelling unit having a party wall connecting it with the other dwelling unit, located on one lot; also known as a "duplex."
O.
Dwelling unit: One (1) or more rooms within a dwelling forming a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use of one (1) family involving owner or renter occupancy, with provisions for cooking, eating, and sleeping, and which is physically set apart from other rooms or dwelling units in the same building. A separate or additional dwelling unit shall not be connected by means of a structure, such as a breezeway, to an existing dwelling, single-family detached.
P.
Factory-built housing: An obsolete term used to describe an industrialized home. See definition of industrialized home.
P'.
Heated floor area, minimum: The finished portion of a dwelling that is primarily intended and ready for human habitation and everyday use. A portion of a dwelling shall be deemed "finished" when:
a.
It is heated;
b.
Its walls and floors are covered with a finished covering; and
c.
It is served by electricity with fixtures operated by functional outlets and switches which have been installed in compliance with any and all applicable building codes for occupancy.
For purposes of this definition, the following portions of a dwelling shall not be considered "finished" even if served by utilities: crawlspace, attic, garage, carport, unfinished basement.
Q.
HUD: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
R.
Industrialized home: A residential structure which is (either wholly or in substantial part) made, fabricated, formed or assembled in one (1) or more factory built sections or panels in manufacturing facilities for assembly and installation on a building site. An industrialized home is manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to or destruction thereof and which, when completed, meets or exceeds the requirements of any and all development standards for conventionally constructed site built housing. Any industrialized home must be designed to be permanently connected to a site-built foundation. No industrialized home shall be constructed with a chassis, as defined in 24 C.F.R. § 3280.902(a). It is the intent of this definition to include structures or components which are included within O.C.G.A. § 8-2-111(3) and 7 C.F.R. § 3550.10 or which are approved pursuant to the Rules and Regulations of the Department of Community Affairs of the State of Georgia and which bear an insignia of approval issued by the commissioner thereof.
In addition, any industrialized home shall meet the following standards:
(1)
The home has a minimum width in excess of twenty (20) feet.
(2)
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of four (4) feet for each twelve (12) feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of material that is commonly used in conventional residential construction, except that any such home for which a building permit was applied prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the issued building permit.
(3)
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
(4)
The home, if constructed outside of the boundaries of Spalding County, may not be brought into Spalding County and used as a dwelling if such home was constructed more than five (5) years from the date on which the application is requested.
(5)
Any person desiring to locate or place an industrialized home within Spalding County shall comply with the requirements of section 408 and section 419 of this ordinance.
(6)
For purposes of this definition, no manufactured home (as defined in section 203 (S—U) may be attached to any industrialized home by means of breezeway, corridor or hallway.
S.
Manufactured home, Class A:
1.
A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
a.
Minimum width in excess of sixteen (16) feet.
b.
The pitch of the home's roof has a minimum vertical rise of four (4) feet for each twelve (12) feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction, except that any such home for which a building permit was applied prior to the adoption of this ordinance may be extended, enlarged or repaired as otherwise provided by this ordinance with the same roof pitch as that allowed by the aforesaid building permit.
c.
The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, or aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction.
d.
Piers/footings must be a minimum of twenty-four (24) inches by twenty-four (24) inches and six (6) inches deep.
e.
A curtain wall, un-pierced except for required ventilation and access and constructed of masonry, is installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall shall have a minimum thickness of four (4) inches.
f.
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
g.
A minimum three (3) foot by three (3) foot attached porch on front and back of home.
h.
For purposes of this definition, no manufactured home (as defined in Section 203 (S-U)) may be attached to any other Manufactured Home, Class A by means of breezeway, corridor or hallway. (#A-00-18, 10-16-00)
2.
All manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
3.
Landings of the requisite composition and size as per Section 1113 of the Standard Building Code of the Southern Building Code Congress International, with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference herein as part of this requirement.
4.
Manufactured homes are not permitted to be used as storage buildings.
T.
Manufactured home, Class B. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act 42 U.S.C. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976), but does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the unit as a Class A manufactured home. All manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with 8-2-160, et seq. of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Manufactured homes are not permitted to be used as storage buildings.
U.
Manufactured home, Class C. Any manufactured home that does not meet the definitional criteria of a Class A or Class B manufactured home (not constructed to the HUD Code). All manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with 8-2-160, et seq. of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Class C manufactured homes must meet the construction standards specified in ANSI A119.1 (See Appendix H). Compliance with ANSI A119.1 may be determined by any of the following procedures:
1.
For Class C manufactured homes, which are proposed to be located within Spalding County for the first time or which are proposed to be relocated within Spalding County, the Spalding County administrative officer must inspect the unit and determine what (if anything) is needed to bring the unit up to the standards of ANSI 119.1. Upon determining that the unit meets ANSI 119.1 standards and that the provisions of all other applicable Spalding County ordinances are met by the proposed placement of the manufactured home, the administrative officer will issue the permit for placement of the manufactured home.
V.
Manufactured home space: An area of land within a planned manufactured home community designed to accommodate one (1) manufactured home.
W.
Manufactured housing: A general term used to describe a type of housing that is produced, either completely or partially in a factory, including manufactured homes, modular homes, and industrialized homes.
X.
Mobile home: An obsolete term used to describe a manufactured home.
Y.
Mobile home park: An obsolete term used to describe a planned manufactured home park. See definition of planned manufactured home community.
Z.
Modular home: A factory-fabricated single-family dwelling that is constructed in one (1) or more sections and complies with the definition of industrialized home.
Z'.
Mother-in-law suite: An accessory structure to a dwelling, single-family detached that meets the following development standards:
1.
Shall be located in the rear yard only and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty (750) heated square feet.
2.
Shall contain only one (1) bedroom, one (1) bath and no separate utilities.
3.
Shall utilize its own independent septic system.
4.
Shall be ancillary to an existing principle dwelling and built after or during construction of the principle dwelling.
5.
Only family members as defined in article 2, section 202(EE) may be domiciled in the suite.
AA.
Multi-section home: An obsolete term used to describe a manufactured home finished in two (2) or more sections.
BB.
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards: The national building code for all manufactured homes built since June 15, 1976, written and administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; also known as the "HUD Code."
CC.
Planned apartment home community: A lot used or intended for use as a residential area occupied by apartment homes and conforming to an approved development plan; with appropriate and adequate community services, recreational facilities, utilities, streets, and sidewalks provided by the developer.
DD.
Planned manufactured home community: A lot used or intended for use as a residential area occupied by manufactured homes; and conforming to an approved development plan with appropriate and adequate community services, recreational facilities, utilities, streets, and sidewalks provided by the developer; where the resident owns or rents the manufactured home and rents the manufactured home space. All manufactured homes located within a manufactured home community must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq., and all manufactured home communities shall be designed in accordance with the applicable provisions of article 9 of this ordinance.
EE.
Pre-fabricated home: A general term used to describe any home constructed in a factory setting including manufactured homes, modular homes, and industrialized homes.
EE'.
Recreational vehicle: A vehicle designed as a temporary dwelling for travel or recreational uses. Also referred to as, camping trailers, travel trailers, camper pick-up coaches, and motorized homes.
EE".
Residential occupancy: Stay at a dwelling, for any length of time, when such dwelling is the occupant's primary address of domicile.
FF.
SBCCI: Southern Building Code Congress International.
GG.
Sectional home: A general term used to describe any home constructed in a factory setting, especially manufactured homes.
HH.
Single-wide: An obsolete term used to describe a mobile home or manufactured home having a width of between eight (8) and sixteen (16) feet.
II.
Site-built home: See definition of conventional construction.
JJ.
Stick-built home: See definition of conventional construction.
KK.
Trailer: An obsolete term used to describe a manufactured home.
LL.
Trailer court: An obsolete term used to describe a planned manufactured home community. See definition of planned manufactured home community.
MM.
Trailer park: An obsolete term used to describe a planned manufactured home community. See definition of planned manufactured home community.
NN.
Travel trailer: A vehicle designed as a temporary dwelling for travel or recreational uses, not more than eight (8) feet in width and not more than thirty (30) feet in length.
OO.
Travel trailer park: A lot on which are parked two (2) or more travel trailers for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
PP.
Wall, curtain: A nonbearing wall between columns or piers and which is not supported by girders or beams, but is supported on the ground.
(Res. of 8-20-96, §§ 1—3; Res. of 10-1-96, § 2; Res. of 11-19-96, §§ 1, 2; Res. of 1-21-97, §§ 1—4; Res. of 3-4-97, §§ 1—5; Res. No. 98-26, §§ 1—6, 10-6-98; Res. No. A-00-18, §§ 1, 2, 10-16-00; Res. No. A-00-19, § 2, 10-16-00; Res. No. A-00-25, § 1, 12-21-00; Res. No. A-03-03, § 1, 3-17-03; Res. No. A-03-12, § 1, 10-6-03; Res. No. A-03-29, § 1, 11-3-03; Res. No. A-03-32, §§ 2, 3, 12-15-03; Res. No. A-04-20, § 1, 11-15-04; Res. No. A-05-04, §§ 2, 3, 6-6-05; Res. No. A-10-07, §§ 1—3, 9-23-10; Res. No. A-08-12, §§ 1, 2, 7-7-08; Res. No. A-11-08, §§ 1, 2, 4-2-12; Res. No. A-12-01, § 1, 5-7-12; Res. No. A-15-03, § 2, 5-4-15; Res. No. A-21-01, § 1, 6-21-21 )
