ARTICLE 16. - C-3 USED VEHICLE PARTS DEALERS, AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK REPAIR FACILITIES, JUNKYARDS, AND USED VEHICLE PROCESSING FACILITIES

Sec. 1601. - Purpose.
C-3 zoning districts are intended to establish and preserve small business areas for junkyards and any incidental uses customarily associated with junkyards.
Sec. 1602. - Boundaries of C-3 districts.
The official map (section 2301 of this ordinance) shows the boundaries of all C-3 districts within Spalding County. Article 23 also contains additional information concerning interpreting district boundaries, amending boundaries, etc.
Sec. 1603. - Permitted uses.
A.
The following principal uses are permitted in C-3 districts:
1.
Junkyards; provided that a two-hundred (200) foot buffer shall be placed along all side and rear property lines and that the property on which a junkyard is located shall not be located within five hundred (500) feet of a residential dwelling, other than the dwelling which belongs to the owner of the junkyard.
2.
Automobile and truck repair facility.
3.
Used vehicle processing facility.
4.
Outdoor advertising sign.
B.
The following principal uses are permitted as special exceptions in C-3 districts:
1.
Tower or antenna meeting the standards and development criteria established in the Spalding County Ordinance to Establish Standards for Telecommunications Antennas and Towers.
C.
The following accessory uses are permitted in C-3 districts:
1.
Those determined by the administrative officer to be customarily appurtenant to those uses permitted in this district.
2.
Tower, domestic or antenna, domestic.
3.
Shipping container, temporary.
4.
Mobile food service unit, temporary.
D.
The following accessory uses are permitted as special exceptions in C-3 districts:
1.
None.
E.
All accessory uses must meet the following standards:
1.
They must be located in the rear yard.
2.
They must be located at least five (5) feet from any property line.
3.
They may not be located in any front or side yard.
4.
Accessory buildings not attached to the principal building must be located at least twelve (12) feet from the principal building on the lot.
F.
All uses not permitted within C-3 districts by this section are specifically prohibited.
(Res. of 7-15-97, §§ 43—45; Res. No. A-19-02, § 23, 4-15-19; Ord. No. 2022-007, § 9, 10-3-22)
Sec. 1604. - Development standards for C-3 districts.
In addition to the development standards contained in Article 4 of this ordinance, the following standards are required within C-3 districts:
EXPAND
A. Minimum heated floor area for buildings: None.
B. Minimum lot area:
1. Unsewered areas: As specified by the Spalding County Health Department.
2. Sewered areas: None.
C. Minimum lot width: Two hundred (200) feet.
D. Minimum front-yard depth: One hundred (100) feet.
E. Minimum side-yard depth: Two hundred (200) feet.
F. Minimum rear-yard depth: Thirty-five (35) feet.
G. Maximum building height: Thirty-five (35) feet. This height limit does not apply to projections not intended for human habitation—Except for satellite, television, and radio antennas, to which this limit does apply. For buildings and structures with such projections, the minimum required yard must be increased one (1) foot for every two (2) feet (or part of two (2) feet) of height greater than thirty-five (35) feet.
  _____
H.
Minimum frontage width: Two hundred (200) feet.
I.
Sight distance: Within thirty (30) feet of the pavement edge, plants cannot be of a type which will exceed a height of thirty (30) inches at maturity and/or a trunk diameter of four (4) inches. There may be some flexibility in regard to the maximum trunk diameter when protected by a guardrail or some other suitable type barrier beyond thirty (30) feet from pavement edge. Almost any type of planted vegetation is permissible.
J.
Applicability to land and buildings: No building, structure or land may be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part of a building or structure may be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
K.
Every use must be on a lot: No building or structure may be erected or use established unless upon a lot as defined by this ordinance.
L.
Only one principal building per lot: Only one (1) principal building and its accessory buildings may be erected on any lot, except for planned developments or as otherwise provided.
M.
Open space not to be encroached upon: No open space may be encroached upon or reduced in any manner except in conformity with the yard, setback, off-street parking spaces, and other such required development standards contained in the ordinance. Shrubbery, driveways, retaining walls, fences, curbs, and buffers (see definition in Article 2) are not considered to be encroachments of yards. Open space areas as required by this ordinance must be permanently maintained as open space in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
N.
Reduction of yards or lot area: Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, a lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance may not be reduced, divided, or changed so as to produce a tract of land which does not comply with the minimum dimension or area requirements of this ordinance for the district in which it is located unless that reduction or division is necessary to provide land which is needed and accepted for public use.
O.
Lots with multiple frontage: In case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, front yard setback requirements apply to all lot lines abutting a street.
P.
Landlocked lots: In the case of a landlocked lot (lot without direct access to a public street or road) lawfully existing as of the effective date of this ordinance, the property owner is entitled to one (1) building permit, as long as all of the following requirements are met.
1.
No other principal building exists or is being constructed on the property.
2.
No other valid building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this ordinance and is currently valid.
3.
The property was and continues to be under single ownership since the effective date of this ordinance.
4.
The property owner has acquired a thirty-foot easement to a city-, county-, or state-maintained street or road, and the easement has been duly recorded and made a part of the property deed.
5.
In the event the property is divided, no additional building permits will be issued.
Q.
Reserved.
R.
Yards and other spaces: No part of a yard, other open space, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building may be included as a part of the yard, off-street parking, or loading space required for another building, except as specifically provided for in this ordinance.
S.
Reserved.
T.
Encroachment on public rights-of-way: No building, structure, service area, required off-street parking, or loading/unloading facility is permitted to encroach on public rights-of-way.
U.
Physical design standards: Minimum design standards for driveways, loading areas, and other such physical site improvements are contained in applicable development regulations of Spalding County. Consult the administrative officer for specific requirements.
V.
Off-street parking and service requirements: Minimum standards for off-street parking and service requirements are contained in the Spalding County Standard for Off-Street Parking and Service Facilities (Appendix G).
W.
Other applicable development regulations: Information concerning any other applicable development regulations may be obtained from the administrative officer.
X.
Signs: Minimum design and location standards are contained in the Spalding County Sign Ordinance (Appendix E). Consult that document for specific requirements.
Y.
Special development requirements:
1.
Street setbacks: All junkyards and the like shall be set back from all street or road right-of-way lines one hundred (100) feet.
2.
A solid or opaque fence or wall at least six (6) feet in height shall be erected along all property lines.
3.
The grade of the site shall not be greater than five (5) percent throughout the property.
4.
Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from adjacent properties.
(Res. of 10-7-97, §§ 26, 27)
