Part IV - PUBLIC SERVICES AND IMPROVEMENTS[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— System of county drainage, Ga. Code Ann., ch. 23-25.

CHAPTER 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 4.1. - Water districts.
Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph II of the Constitution, as amended, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized to district areas outside of municipalities in said county for the purpose of furnishing water services and is hereby given the authority to levy a tax upon the taxable property in each respective district to defray all costs of such water districts in each respective district." (1960 Ga. Laws, p. 1390, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § 1 of 1987 Georgia Laws, p. 3541.
Sec. 4.2. - Street improvements, etc.
Article XI of the Constitution, as amended, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "Within the unincorporated areas of Spalding County the Commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, shall have full power and authority to construct, pave, maintain and otherwise improve public streets, roadways and sidewalks, and to assess all or a portion of the cost of such construction, pavement, maintenance or improvement against the abutting property owners thereof, and to provide for the issuance and enforcement of execution for the collection of such assessments, and for the creation of liens thereby against such abutting property. In all such cases, however, the cost shall be determined and assessed under uniform rules and regulations as adopted from time to time by the governing authority of Spalding County and applied uniformly to all roads, streets, sidewalks and properties of the same class, and similarly situated, and further provided that such rules and regulations as initially adopted may be changed, rescinded, modified, and amended from time to time by the governing authority of Spalding County, with the effective date of any such change, rescission, modification or amendment being at least thirty (30) days after publication of notice of such change, rescission, modification or amendment one (1) time in the newspaper in which sheriffs' advertisements are published in Spalding County." (1964 Ga. Laws, p. 104)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § 1 of 1987 Georgia Laws, 3543.
Cross reference— Street improvements and assessments, § 4-1001 et seq.
CHAPTER 2. - FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. 1968 GA. LAWS, P. 1704

Sec. 4.11. - Constitutional authority.
Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph III of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The General Assembly of Georgia is hereby authorized to grant to the governing authority of Spalding County the authority to district areas outside the City of Griffin in said county for the purpose of providing fire protection services and systems of fire protection. The General Assembly is further empowered to authorize said county, or its governing authority, to levy a tax or taxes only upon the taxable property in such districts for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor, conditioned upon the assent of a majority of the qualified voters of any such proposed district voting in an election for that purpose held as provided by the General Assembly, and the levy of any such tax shall be made without the grant or allowance of any exemptions from taxation as set forth in Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV, or in any other provision, of the Constitution or as set forth by the laws of this state. Any other provision of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the General Assembly is further authorized to empower the governing authority of said county to issue bonds in an amount not exceeding ten (10) per centum of the assessed value of all of the taxable property located in any such district subject to taxation for bond purposes and any such bonds issued or debts incurred in and for any such district shall not affect the amount of bonds issued or debts incurred in and for any such district shall not affect the amount of bonds Spalding County may issue, or the amount of debts said county may incur, for other purposes under Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution, or under any other provision of the Constitution, or under the laws of this state, and such bonds as herein authorized may be issued in addition thereto. The General Assembly is further authorized to grant said county the authority to enter into contracts with private persons, private corporations, municipal corporations, public bodies, political bodies, political subdivisions and agencies of this state for the purpose of establishing and maintaining such districts and providing the fire protection services and systems as herein set out." (1968 Ga. Laws, p. 1704, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § 1 of 1987 Georgia Laws, 3691.
Cross reference— Description of fire district, § 3-2001.
ARTICLE B. 1970 GA. LAWS, P. 3227
Sec. 4.12. - Statutory authority.
Pursuant to Paragraph III, Section IV, Article VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945, as amended, the board of commissioners of Spalding County, Georgia, as the governing authority of said county, is hereby authorized to establish and administer within the areas of said county outside the City of Griffin, districts for the purpose of providing fire protection services and systems of fire protection. In establishing any such district, the governing authority of said county may prescribe such bounds for said district, from time to time, as the governing authority shall deem advisable. (1970 Ga. Laws, p. 3227, § 1)
Sec. 4.13. - Definition.
As used in this act, the term "fire protection" may include hydrants, fire stations and the equipment thereof, and such fire engines, material, equipment and supplies, together with personnel to operate the same, as may be necessary to furnish fire protection in any one (1) or more portions of the unincorporated areas of Spalding County. (1970 Ga. Laws, p. 3227, § 2)
Sec. 4.14. - Contracts.
If the board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, shall at any time determine that any areas, districts or sections of said county, not within the corporate limits of the City of Griffin, need the protection and services of a fire protection system, Spalding County may enter into one (1) or more contracts with any one (1) or more of the municipalities or cities now or hereafter located within said county, under which any such municipality or municipalities may provide whatever fire protection and services are needed or may provide for a separate district fire protection system. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 3)
Sec. 4.15. - Municipal authority.
In the event that the governing authority of Spalding County shall at any time request such fire protection and services, the City of Griffin or other such municipality to which such a request is directed, or the governing authority thereof, is hereby authorized and empowered, notwithstanding any limitations or provisions of its charter to the contrary, to furnish such fire protection and services in the unincorporated areas or portions of Spalding County by contract. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 4)
Sec. 4.16. - Negotiation and term of contracts.
If the board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, shall at any time determine that any areas, districts or sections of said county, not within the corporate limits of the City of Griffin, need the protection and services of a fire protection system, Spalding County may enter into one (1) or more contracts with private persons and private corporations, as well as with municipal corporations, public bodies, political subdivisions and agencies of this state, for the purpose of establishing and maintaining such districts and providing the fire protection services and systems as herein set out and authorized, and the governing authority of said county is hereby authorized to negotiate any such contract on such terms and conditions as the governing authority shall deem appropriate and in the best interests of said county and, upon approval of same by any grand jury of the superior court of said county, may execute any such contract for and in behalf of said county, provided however, that the term or period of any such contract shall not exceed forty (40) years. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 5)
Sec. 4.17. - Costs.
The costs for district fire protection shall be borne by the particular fire protection district which is to benefit and shall be paid by a tax levy only upon the taxable property in such district for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor, conditioned upon the assent of a majority of the qualified voters of any such proposed district voting in an election for that purpose held as hereinafter provided. The money collected under any such levy shall be used for fire protection purposes, including the payment of debts or bonds therefor as hereinafter provided, in the fire protection district only in which such taxes are levied and not in any other fire protection district of said county. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 6)
Sec. 4.18. - Referendums.
The board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority thereof, upon its determination of the description or bounds of any such fire protection district, may then adopt a resolution or order, directed and delivered to the judge of the probate court of Spalding County, to which will be attached a description or bounds of such proposed fire protection district, authorizing and directing said judge to issue the call for and hold an election in such proposed fire protection district for the purpose of determining whether a majority of qualified voters of any such proposed district voting in any such election assent to the levy of such a tax by the county only upon the taxable property in such district for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection for such district and construction and maintaining facilities therefor. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 7)
Sec. 4.19. - Taxes.
Spalding County is hereby authorized to provide fire protection services and systems of fire protection in any such fire district, established as aforesaid with the assent of a majority of the qualified voters voting in an election held in such district as herein provided, and the governing authority of said county may levy tax on all of the property, subject to ad valorem taxation and located in such district, for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor. The levy of any such tax shall be made without the grant or allowance of any exemptions from taxation as set forth in Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or under any other provision of said Constitution or as set forth by the laws of this state and any such levy shall not be in excess of five (5) mills. In all other respects such tax levy shall be made, assessed, collected and enforced by said county as may be now or hereafter provided by law for ad valorem taxation by the counties of this state. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 8)
Sec. 4.20. - Election—Conduct.
The judge of the probate court of Spalding County is hereby authorized to employ the necessary personnel and obtain the necessary ballots and materials to conduct each such election. He shall canvass the returns and declare and certify the results of each such election and he shall otherwise conduct each such election under the pertinent laws of Georgia as a special election and he is hereby empowered and authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations, cumulative of those as provided by law, in conducting such elections that he, within his sole discretion, may deem fair and equitable under the circumstances prevailing. The expenses of each such election shall be borne by Spalding County. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 9)
Sec. 4.21. - Same—Call; date; notice; list of voters.
Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of any such order or resolution of the governing authority of Spalding County, the judge of the probate court of said county shall issue the call for such election as aforesaid for the purpose of determining whether taxes shall be levied in such proposed fire protection district for the aforesaid purpose. The date of each such election shall be set by the judge of the probate court for a day not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days after the issuance of shall be published by the judge of the probate court once a week for two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Spalding County. The board of registrars of said county, when so directed by the judge of the probate court, shall have the duty to compile a list of voters or electors for each proposed fire protection district, and only those electors who are duly registered to vote in the general election and whose residency is inside the boundaries of said proposed fire district from the date of the call for such election through the date of such election, inclusive of both said dates, shall be qualified to vote in such election.
The ballot submitting such matter to the electors or voters in such election shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"For the levy of taxes not to exceed five (5) mills for fire protection purposes."
"Against the levy of taxes not to exceed five (5) mills for fire protection purposes."
If a majority of those persons voting in such election in any such proposed district vote for the levy of such taxes, then such district shall become a fire protection district of the county and the governing authority of Spalding County shall be authorized to levy such taxes in that district. If less than a majority of those persons voting in such election in any such proposed district vote for the levying of such taxes, then no such district shall be established and no such taxes shall be levied in that proposed district. The votes in each proposed fire protection district shall be counted separately, and the votes in each proposed district shall determine whether such taxes shall be levied in that particular district. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 10)
Sec. 4.22. - Rules.
The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby empowered within its discretion to formulate rules and regulations relative to the establishment and administration of fire protection districts. (1970 Ga. Laws 3227, Sec. 11)
Sec. 4.23. - Loans.
The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized to borrow such sums as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Act, to construct and maintain the projects hereinbefore authorized, to execute evidences of indebtedness therefor, and to secure the payment of such indebtedness by the pledge of tax revenues authorized hereunder therefor. (1970 Ga. Laws, 3227, § 12)
Sec. 4.24. - Bonds.
The governing of Spalding County is authorized and empowered to issue bonds hereby authorized in an amount not exceeding in the aggregate ten (10) per centum of the assessed value of all the taxable property, located in any such district, subject to taxation for bond purposes, and any such bonds issued or debts incurred in and for any such district shall not affect the amount of bonds Spalding County may issue, or the amount of debts said county may incur, for other purposes under Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution, or under any other provision of the Constitution, or under the laws of this state, and such bonds as herein authorized may be issued in addition thereto. Such bonds for any such district, as herein authorized, shall be paid and retired only out of the revenues collected by the taxes, as hereinabove provided, not exceeding a levy of five (5) mills in the aggregate. (1970 Ga. Laws, 3227, § 13)
ARTICLE C. 1978 GA. LAWS, P. 3198 [6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, approved March 13, 1978, did not specifically amend this Code; hence inclusion of §§ 1—17 as §§ 4.25—4.41 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 4.25. - Statutory authority.
Pursuant to an amendment of Paragraph III, Section IV, Article VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945 (Ga. Laws 1968, p. 1704), which was ratified at the general election held on November 5, 1968, and continued in effect in the Constitution of Georgia of 1976 by virtue of Article XIII, Section I, Paragraph II thereof, the board of commissioners of Spalding County, Georgia, as the governing authority of said county, is hereby authorized to establish, administer and abolish and, from time to time, to discontinue, re-establish, reconstitute and administer, within the unincorporated areas of said county, districts for the purpose of providing fire protection services and systems of fire protection. In establishing any such district, or in discontinuing or abolishing any district and reestablishing another district, the governing authority of said county may prescribe such areas and bounds for such district and may change or redefine the areas and bounds for the establishment or reestablishment of any such district, from time to time, as the governing authority shall deem advisable. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 1)
Sec. 4.26. - Definition.
As used in this act, the term "fire protection" may include hydrants, fire stations and the fixtures and equipment thereof, and such fire engines, material, equipment, appliances and supplies, together with personnel to operate the same, as may be necessary to furnish fire protection in any and all of the unincorporated areas of Spalding County. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 2)
Sec. 4.27. - Municipal authority.
If the board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, shall at any time determine that any areas, districts or sections of said county not within the corporate limits of any municipality need the protection and services of a fire protection system, Spalding County may enter into one or more contracts with any one or more of the municipalities, now or hereafter located within the State of Georgia, under which any such municipality or municipalities may provide whatever fire protection services are so determined to be needed or may provide therefor a separate fire protection system. In the event that the governing authority of Spalding County shall at any time request such fire protection or services, the City of Griffin or other such municipality within the State of Georgia to which such a request is directed, or the governing authority thereof, is hereby authorized and empowered, notwithstanding any limitations or provisions of its charter to the contrary, to furnish such fire protection and services in the unincorporated areas of Spalding County under and by virtue of such contract, pursuant to the pertinent laws of Georgia. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 3)
Sec. 4.28. - Contracts.
If the board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority of said county, shall at any time determine that any areas, districts or sections of said county not within the corporate limits of any municipality need the protection and services of a fire protection system, Spalding County may enter into one (1) or more contracts with private persons and private corporations, as well as with municipal corporations, public bodies, political subdivisions and agencies of this state, for the purpose of establishing, administering and maintaining such districts and providing the fire protection services and systems as herein authorized. The governing authority of said county is hereby authorized to negotiate any such contract on such terms and conditions as the governing authority shall deem appropriate and in the best interests of said county and may execute any such contract for and on behalf of said county; provided, however, that the terms or period of any such contract shall not exceed twenty (20) years. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 4)
Sec. 4.29. - Costs.
The costs for district fire protection shall be borne by the particular fire protection district, as established hereunder, which is to benefit therefrom and shall be paid by a tax levied only upon the taxable property in such district for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor, conditioned upon the assent of a majority of the qualified voters of any such proposed district voting in an election for that held as hereinafter provided. Money collected under any such levy shall be used for the aforesaid purposes in the fire protection district only in which such taxes are levied and not in any other fire protection district of said county. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 5)
Sec. 4.30. - Taxes.
Spalding County is hereby authorized to provide fire protection services and systems of fire protection in any such fire protection district, established or reconstituted as aforesaid, with the assent of a majority of the qualified voters in an election held in such district as herein provided. The governing authority of said county may levy a tax on all of the property, subject to ad valorem taxation and located in such district, for the purpose of providing such services and systems of fire protection and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor. The levy of any such tax shall be made without the grant or allowance of any exemptions from taxation as set forth in Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or under any other provisions of said constitution or as set forth by the laws of this state and any such levy shall not be in excess of five (5) mills. In all other respects such tax levy shall be made, assessed, collected and enforced by said county as may be now or hereafter provided by law for and valorem taxation by the counties of this state. Such five-mill limitation on the aforesaid tax levy shall not include the amount of any tax levy made to pay or retire bonds or debts issued or incurred as hereinafter provided in sections 4.36 and 4.37 of this article. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 6)
Sec. 4.31. - Election—Authority to hold.
The board of commissioners of Spalding County, as the governing authority thereof, upon its determination of the area, limits or bounds of any such fire protection district established or reconstituted hereunder, may then adopt a resolution or order, directed and delivered to the judge of the probate court of Spalding County, or any other official as may be hereafter authorized and empowered by the laws of Georgia to hold and conduct special elections in Spalding County, to which will be attached a description or bounds of such proposed fire protection district, authorizing and directing said judge or official to issue the call for and hold an election in such proposed fire protection district for the purpose of determining whether a majority of the qualified voters of such proposed district, voting in any such election, assent to the levy of such a tax by the county, only upon the taxable property in such district, for the purpose of providing such services and fire protection for such district and constructing and maintaining facilities therefor. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 7)
Sec. 4.32. - Same—Conduct.
The judge of the probate court of Spalding County, or other official as may be hereafter authorized to hold and conduct special elections in Spalding County, is hereby authorized to employ the necessary personnel and obtain the necessary ballots, materials and supplies to conduct each such election. He shall canvass the returns and declare and certify the results of each such election and he shall otherwise conduct each such election, under the pertinent laws of Georgia, as a special election. The judge of the probate court is hereby empowered and authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations, cumulative of those as provided by law, in conducting such elections that he, within his sole discretion, may deem necessary, fair and equitable under the circumstances prevailing. The expenses of each such election shall be borne by Spalding County. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 8)
Sec. 4.33. - Same—Call; date; notice; list of voters.
Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of any such order or resolution of the governing authority of Spalding County, the judge of the probate court, or the official holding and conducting such special election, shall issue the call for such election for the purpose of determining whether taxes shall be levied in such proposed fire protection district for the aforesaid purposes. The date of each such election shall be set by said official for a day not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days after the issuance of the call. The date and purpose of the election shall be published by the official calling such election once a week for two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Spalding County. The board of registrars of said county, when so directed by the official calling such election, shall have the duty of compiling a list of voters or electors in each such proposed fire protection district; and only those electors who are duly registered to vote in such special elections and whose residency is inside the boundaries of said proposed fire protection district from the date of the call for such election through the tenth day preceding the date be qualified to vote in such election. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 9)
Sec. 4.34. - Same—Ballot.
The ballot submitting such matter to the electors or voters in such election shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"For the levy of taxes not to exceed five (5) mills for fire protection services."
"Against the levy of taxes not to exceed five (5) mills for fire protection services."
If a majority of those persons voting in such election in any such proposed district vote for the levy of such taxes, then such district shall become a fire protection district of the county, under and by virtue of the provisions of this act, and the governing authority of Spalding County shall be authorized and empowered to assess, levy and collect such taxes in that district. If less than a majority of those persons voting in such election in any such proposed district vote for the levy of such taxes, then no such district shall be established and no such taxes shall be levied in that proposed district. The votes in each proposed fire protection district shall be counted separately and votes in each proposed district shall determine whether such taxes shall be levied in that particular district. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 10)
Sec. 4.35. - Rules and regulations.
The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby empowered within its discretion to formulate and issue rules and regulations relative to the establishment, discontinuance, reestablishment and administration of fire protection districts. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 11)
Sec. 4.36. - Bonds—Authority to issue.
The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized to issue bonds as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this act, to construct and maintain the projects and facilities to provide fire protection services hereunder, to borrow money and execute evidences of indebtedness therefor, and to secure the payment of such bonds or indebtedness by the pledge of tax revenues authorized hereunder therefor. (1978 Ga. Laws, 3198, § 12)
Sec. 4.37. - Same—Amount.
The governing authority of Spalding County is hereby authorized and empowered to issue bonds in an amount not exceeding ten (10) per centum of the assessed value of all of the taxable property located in any such district as established or reconstituted hereunder, subject to taxation for bond purposes. Any such bonds issued or debts incurred in and for any such district shall not affect the amount of bonds Spalding County may issue or the amount of debts said county may incur for other purposes under Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976 (being Paragraph I, Section VII, Article VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945) or under any other provisions of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or under the laws of this state. Such bonds as are herein authorized may be issued in addition thereto. Such bonds for any such district, as herein authorized, shall be paid and retired only out of revenues collected from taxes levied only on the property subject to and valorem taxation and located in such district, and the levy of any such tax shall be made without the grant or allowance of any exemption from taxation as set forth in Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia or under any other provision of said constitution or as set forth by the laws of this state. The amount of any such levy shall not be limited or restricted by any provision herein and may be in excess of the five (5) mills hereinbefore authorized to be levied in Section 4.30 if the governing authority of Spalding County deems it appropriate. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 13)
Sec. 4.38. - Existing fire protection district.
The governing authority of Spalding County is authorized and empowered to continue to administer the existing fire protection district established under and by virtue of the aforesaid act approved March 21, 1970 (Ga. Laws 1970, p. 3227), if it elects to do so; and the governing authority of said county is hereby authorized and empowered to continue to establish and administer other districts, as may hereafter be established under said 1970 act; provided, however, that the governing authority of said county, before enacting any resolutions or ordinances establishing, discontinuing, reestablishing or administering any fire protection district, shall state in such resolution as to whether it is acting under this act or under the aforesaid 1970 act. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 14)
Sec. 4.39. - Validity.
If any section or portion of this act shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction or if the provisions of any part of this act as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not be construed to affect the portions of this act not so held to be invalid or unconstitutional or the application of this act to other circumstances not so held to be invalid or unconstitutional. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the General Assembly of Georgia to provide for separable and divisible parts of this act and this legislative body does hereby adopt any and all parts hereof as may not be held invalid or unconstitutional. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 15)
Sec. 4.40. - Effective date.
This act shall become effective upon its approval by the governor or upon its becoming law without his approval. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 16)
Sec. 4.41. - Conflicting laws repealed.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed. (1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3198, § 17)
