CHAPTER 4. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Cross reference— Education, App. II.

Sec. 5.61. - Creation; composition; qualifications of members.
Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof the following provisions set out herein as sections 5.61 through 5.69:
"The administration of the Griffin-Spalding County school system shall be vested in a board to be known and designated as the Griffin-Spalding County board of education. Said board shall consist of ten (10) members, each of whom shall be a person of good moral character and at least twenty-five (25) years of age at the time of assuming office as a member of said board. Each of the ten (10) districts hereinafter created and described shall be represented by one member of such board, who shall have been a resident of the district he represents for at least six (6) months before his election or appointment to said board." (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment given in this section was continued in effect by § 1 of 1987 Georgia Laws, p. 3545.
Sec. 5.62. - Boundaries of districts.
There are hereby created ten (10) such single-member districts and the boundaries of each such district are hereafter designated and described as follows:
(a)
District 1. Beginning at the intersection of Solomon Street and North Hill Street; and running north along Hill Street to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south and southwest along the city limits to its intersection with the Central of Georgia Railroad Line; and running north and northwest along the Griffin-Chattanooga Line of the Central of Georgia Railroad System to its intersection with the city limits; and running south along the city limits to its intersection with Georgia Highway 16 (West Taylor Street); and running east along West Taylor Street to its intersection with Expressway North; and running north along Expressway North to its intersection with West Solomon Street; and running east along West Solomon Street to its intersection with North Hill Street, the point of beginning.
(b)
District 2. Beginning at the intersection of North Hill Street and Solomon Street; and running north along North Hill Street to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south and east along the city limits to its intersection with Georgia Highway 16; and running east and north along Georgia Highway 16 to its intersection with the northeast boundary of the East Griffin (1980) Census Designated Place (Tract 9908, Block 107) and running south and east along the northeast boundary of East Griffin (1980) Census Designated Place to its intersection with High Falls Road; and running west along High Falls Road and East Solomon Street to its intersection with North Hill Street, the point of beginning.
(c)
District 3. Beginning at the intersection of South Eighth Street and West Solomon Street and running east along Solomon Street to its intersection with High Falls Road; and running east along High Falls Road to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south and west along the city limits to its intersection with South Sixth Street Extension (Maple Drive); and running north along South Sixth Street Extension (Maple Drive) to its intersection with Wesley Drive; and running west and south along Wesley Drive to its intersection with Maddox Road; and running west along Maddox Road to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running north and west along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with South Hill Street; and running north along South Hill Street to its intersection with South Eighth Street; and running north along South Eighth Street to its intersection with West Solomon Street.
(d)
District 4. Beginning at the intersection of South Eighth Street and West Solomon Street and running west along West Solomon Street to its intersection with Expressway North; and running south along Expressway North to its intersection with Georgia Highway 16 (West Taylor Street); and running west along Georgia Highway 16 to its intersection with U.S. Highway 19-41; and running south along U.S. Highway 19-41 to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running east, south, and north along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with South Hill Street; and running north along South Hill Street to its intersection with South Eighth Street; and running north along South Eighth Street to its intersection with West Solomon Street.
(e)
District 5. Beginning at the intersection of the city limits of Griffin and North Hill Street; and running south and west along the city limits to its intersection with Central of Georgia Railroad; and running north along the Macon-Atlanta Line of the Central of Georgia Railroad System to its intersection with Dobbins Mill Road; and running east along Dobbins Mill Road to its intersection with Jordan Hill Road; and running north and east along Jordan Hill Road to its intersection with North Second Street Extension (Road Route S2083); and running south and east along Road Route 52083 to its intersection with McIntosh Road and North Second Street Extension; and running south and west along North Second Street Extension to its intersection with Cabin Creek Trail (Road Route P352); and running south and east along Road Route P352 to its intersection with Jackson Road (Georgia Highway 16); and running south and west along Jackson Road to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running north and west along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with North Hill Street; and running south along North Hill Street to the point of beginning.
(f)
District 6. Beginning at the intersection of Jackson Road (Georgia Highway 16) and the northeast boundary of the East Griffin (1980) Census Designated Place (Tract 9908, Block 107); and running north and east along Jackson Road to its intersection with Road Route P352; and running north and west along Road Route P352 to its intersection with North Second Street Extension; and running north along North Second Street Extension to its intersection with McIntosh Road and Road Route 52083; and running north along Road Route S2083 to its intersection with Southern Railroad; and running north and east along Southern Railroad to its intersection with Smoak Road; and running north along Smoak Road to with Teamon Road; and running east along Teamon Road to its intersection with Georgia Highway 155; and running north along Georgia Highway 155 to its intersection with the Spalding-Henry County line; and running, east, south, and west along the Spalding County boundary line to its intersection with Walker's Mill Road; and running north and east along Walker's Mill Road to its intersection with Rehoboth Road; and running north and west along Rehoboth Road to its intersection with Barrow Road; and running north along Barrow Road to its intersection with Newton Road; and running west along Newton Road to its intersection with High Falls Road and the eastern boundary of East Griffin (1980) Census Designated Place (Tract 9908, Block 107); and running north and west along the boundary of East Griffin (1980) Census Designated Place to its intersection with Jackson Road (Georgia Highway 16), the point of beginning.
(g)
District 7. Beginning at the intersection of High Falls Road and the city limits of Griffin; and running east along High Falls Road to its intersection with Newton Road; and running east along Newton Road to its intersection with Barrow Road; and running south along Barrow Road to its intersection with Rehoboth Road; and running south and east along Rehoboth Road to its intersection with Walker's Mill Road; and running south and west along Walker's Mill Road to its intersection with the Spalding-Lamar County line; and running west along the Spalding County line to its intersection with State Highway 3 (South Hill Street Extension); and running north along State Highway 3 to its intersection with South Side Drive; and running west along South Side Drive to its intersection with Kennedy Drive; and running north along Kennedy Drive to its intersection with O'dell Road; and running west along O'dell Road to its intersection with U.S. Highway 19-41; and running north along U.S. Highway 19-41 to its intersection with the Griffin city limits; and running north, east and south along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with Maddox Road; and running east along Maddox Road to its intersection with Wesley Drive; and running north and east along Wesley Drive to its intersection with South Sixth Street Extension (Maple Drive); and running south along South Sixth Street Extension (Maple Drive) to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running east, north, west and south along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with High Falls Road.
(h)
District 8. Beginning at the intersection of State Highway 3 (South Hill Street Extension) and South Side Drive and running south along State Highway 3 to its intersection with the Spalding-Pike County line; and running west, north, and east along the Spalding County line to its intersection with Fayetteville Road; and running east along Fayetteville Road to its intersection with Cheatham Road, and running south along Cheatham Road to its intersection with Vaughn School Road; and running south and west along Vaughn School Road to its intersection with New Salem Road; and running east along New Salem Road to its intersection with West McIntosh Road; and running east along West McIntosh Road to its intersection with New Salem Road; and running east along New Salem Road to its intersection with Ellis Road; and running east along Ellis Road to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with Georgia Highway 16; and running east along Georgia Highway 16 to its intersection with U.S. Highway 19-41; and running south along U.S. Highway 19-41 to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin at Boyd's Row (a public street); and running east and south along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with State Highway 362 (Meriwether Street); and running southwest along State Highway 362 to its intersection with Carver Road; and running south along Carver Road to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south and east along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with U.S. Highway 19-41; and running south along U.S. Highway 19-41 to its intersection with O'dell Road; and running east along O'dell Road to its intersection with Kennedy Drive; and running south along Kennedy Drive to its intersection with South Side Drive; and running east along South Side Drive to its intersection with State Highway 3 (South Hill Street Extension).
(i)
District 9. Beginning at the intersection of the westerly projection of Mud Bridge Road and the Spalding-Fayette County line; and running east along Mud Bridge Road to its intersection with Coleman Road; and running south and east along Coleman Road to its intersection with Sidney Road; running south along Sidney Road to its intersection with Birdie Road; and running east along Birdie Road to its intersection with Steel Road; and running south and east along Steel Road to its intersection with Vineyard Road; and running east along Vineyard Road to its intersection with Central of Georgia Railroad; and running south along the Main Line of Central of Georgia Railroad System to its intersection with the Griffin-Chattanooga Line of the Central of Georgia Railroad System; and running west along Central of Georgia Railroad to its intersection with the city limits of Griffin; and running south along the city limits of Griffin to its intersection with Ellis Road; and running west along Ellis Road to its intersection with New Salem Road; and running west and north along New Salem Road 4 to its junction with West McIntosh Road; and running west on West McIntosh/New Salem Road and continuing north and west on New Salem Road to its intersection with Vaughn School Road; and running north and east along Vaughn School Road to its intersection with Cheatham Road; and running north and west along Cheatham Road to its intersection with Fayetteville Road; and running west along Fayetteville Road to its intersection with the Spalding-Fayette County line; and running north along the Spalding-Fayette County line to its intersection with the westerly projection of Mud Bridge Road, the point of beginning.
(j)
District 10. Beginning at the intersection of the westerly projection of Mud Bridge Road and the Spalding-Fayette County line; and running east along Mud Bridge Road to its intersection with Coleman Road; and running east along Coleman Road to its intersection with Sidney Road; and running south along Sidney Road to its intersection with Birdie Road; and running east along Birdie Road to its intersection with Steel Road; and running south and east along Steel Road to its intersection with Vineyard Road; and running east along Vineyard Road to its intersection with Dobbins Mills Road; and running east along Dobbins Mill Road to its intersection with Jordan Hill Road; and running north and east along Jordan Hill Road to its junction with North Second Street Extension and Road Route 52083; and running east and south along Road Route 52083 to its intersection with Southern Railroad; and running north and east along Southern Railroad to its intersection with Smoak Road; and running north along Smoak Road to its intersection with Teamon Road; and running east along Teamon Road to its intersection with Georgia Highway 155; and running north and east along Georgia Highway 155 to its intersection with the Spalding-Henry County line; and running west, north and south along the Spalding County boundary line to its intersection with the westerly projection of Mud Bridge Road, the point of beginning. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.63. - Terms of members.
At the first election for members of said board of education, the term of members elected from District Nos. 1, 4, 7, 8, and 10 shall be for a term of two (2) years from December 31st of the year of their election. The term of such members from District Nos. 2, 3, 5, 6 and 9 shall be for a term of four (4) years from December 31st of the year of their election. All members so elected shall hold office until the successors have been duly elected (or appointed as hereinafter provided) and take office. The term of each member of the said Griffin-Spalding County board of education elected after the first election of such members shall be for a term of four (4) years from December 31st of the year of his election, and until his respective successor is elected and takes office. (1982 Ga. Laws, 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.64. - Notice of candidacy; filing fee.
Each candidate for election as a member of the Griffin-Spalding County board of education shall qualify by filing written notice of his candidacy with the election superintendent of the County of Spalding. Each such candidate, desiring to have his name placed on the ballot, shall file his notice of candidacy during the days and within the same time and manner as provided by law for a candidate, seeking nomination to run for election to the House of Representatives of the General Assembly of Georgia, qualifying in a general primary election, and in the event of change in the law such notice shall be filed at and within the same times and dates, and in the same manner, as may be hereafter provided by law for a candidate, other than the nominee of a political party nominated in a primary, seeking election (or nomination) as a member of the General Assembly of Georgia in a general primary election. Each such candidate shall accompany his notice of candidacy with an affidavit stating such information as is required by law for candidates in a general primary election and such other information as may be prescribed by the Spalding County election superintendent with whom the candidate files his notice of candidacy. The qualifying fee to be paid by each candidate at the time of filing such notice of his candidacy shall be equal to the per diem compensation then being paid to a member of such board of education for attending a regular monthly meeting of said board. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.65. - Election of members.
Each member of said board qualifying from any of the aforesaid districts shall be elected by a majority vote of the electors, residing in such district and voting in such election. In the event no such candidate shall receive a majority of the votes cast, a run-off election between the candidates receiving the two (2) highest number of votes shall be held on the date and in the manner as now or hereafter provided by law for holding such run-off elections in the general primary for election of members of the General Assembly of Georgia. Only the electors entitled to vote in the special election, as held contemporaneously with the general primary election, shall be entitled to vote in any run-off election resulting therefrom. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.66. - Election schedules; conduct of elections.
The first election hereunder for the ten (10) members of said board of education shall be held by the election superintendent of Spalding County, Georgia, during the year 1984, on the same date and during the same hours that the general primary election is held in the State of Georgia. Beginning with the year 1986, and biennially there after, there shall be an election of five (5) members to the Griffin-Spalding County board of education. Each such election shall be a special election and shall be held in the same manner, except as herein this amendment set out, as provided by law for conducting special elections in the State of Georgia. The election superintendent of Spalding County is hereby authorized to employ the necessary personnel and make necessary arrangements for conducting each such special election. He shall canvass the returns and declare and certify the results of each such election and he shall otherwise conduct each such election, or runoff election, under the pertinent laws of Georgia as a special election. He is further hereby empowered and authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations, cumulative of those provided by law, in conducting any such election, or run-off election, that he, within his sole authority and discretion, may deem fair and equitable under the circumstances prevailing. The expenses of any such election, or run-off election, shall be borne by Spalding County. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.67. - Vacancies.
The death or resignation of a member of said board, or his physical or mental disability to perform his duties, or the removal of his residence for a continuous period of two (2) months from the district from which he qualified, or the failure of such member to attend any three (3) consecutive meetings of the board unexcused by the majority vote by the remaining members of such board, and the occurrence of any one or more of such events, shall be deemed to create a vacancy on said board with respect to the office held by such member. Any such vacancy on the board shall be filled by the majority vote of the remaining members at a regular monthly meeting or at any special meeting, duly called and held for that purpose, with the person designated to fill such vacancy having been a resident, for the six (6) months next preceding, of the particular district with respect to which such vacancy occurred; however, if any such vacancy shall occur more than two (2) years and eight (8) months before the term of office of the member creating such vacancy shall expire, said board may fill such vacancy only for the period ending December 31 of the next succeeding calendar year in which an election for board members is to be held, at which such election a member of said board shall be elected, as herein provided, to fill the remaining two (2) years of the unexpired term. Any person filling such vacancy shall serve as a member of said board until his successor is elected (or appointed) and takes office. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.68. - Effect on other legislation.
Any provision of a constitutional amendment merging the Spalding County school system and the City of Griffin school system into one (1) school district coextensive with the limits of Spalding County which was ratified at the general election in 1952 and which is found in Georgia Laws 1952, page 554, which is in conflict with the provisions of this amendment shall be void and of no force and effect. Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6A, 7, and 8 of the act creating the Griffin-Spalding County school system, approved February 25, 1953 (Georgia Laws 1953, page 2563), as amended by an act approved November 30, 1953 (Georgia Laws 1953, page 2007) and an act approved March 4, 1955 (Georgia Laws 1955, page 2775) shall be void and of no force and effect. An act relating to the election of the members of the board of education of the Griffin-Spalding County school system, approved March 27, 1972 (Georgia Laws 1972, page 2418), shall be void and of no force and effect. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Sec. 5.69. - Changes in certain provisions.
The provisions herein pertaining to the Griffin-Spalding County school system, including the composition of the Griffin-Spalding County board of education, the members of the board, their term of office, methods of selecting such board members, whether elections shall be partisan or nonpartisan, residence requirements, compensation, manner of such elections or appointments and the method for filling vacancies, but not excluding any other provisions herein pertaining to said school system, may hereafter be changed by local law, conditioned upon approval by a majority of the qualified voters voting thereon in a referendum in the school district. (1982 Ga. Laws, p. 2680, § 1)
Secs. 5.70—5.80. - Reserved.
