CHAPTER 7. - ANTI-DRUG COMMISSION[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Chapter 7, §§ 5.121—5.136, is derived from 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, and has been included at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 5.121. - Short title.
This act may be cited as the "Griffin-Spalding County Anti-Drug Commission Act." (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 1)
Sec. 5.122. - Anti-drug commission.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the "Griffin-Spalding County Anti-Drug Commission, " which shall be deemed to be a public corporation and by such name, style, and title, may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity; provided, however, that the commission shall have and enjoy any and all immunities as are now or hereafter granted to it or authorized by the constitution and laws of this state. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 2)
Sec. 5.123. - Term of existence or duration.
The commission shall have the existence hereunder for and during a term of five (5) years, beginning on July 1, 1988, and terminating on June 30, 1993, at which time such commission shall hereby be dissolved and shall thereafter be nonexistent. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 3)
Sec. 5.124. - Composition.
(a)
The commission shall be composed of twenty-four (24) members, to fill the twenty-four (24) respective posts, as follows:
EXPAND
Post Members
1. The mayor of the City of Griffin;
2. The chairman of the board of commissioners of Spalding County;
3. The mayor of the City of Orchard Hill;
4. The mayor of the City of Sunny Side;
5. The sheriff of Spalding County;
6. The chief of police of the City of Griffin;
7. The superintendent of the Griffin-Spalding County School System;
8. The chairman of the Board of Health of Spalding County;
9. The area director of McIntosh Trail Mental Health, Mental Retardation, and Substance Abuse Services Unit of the Georgia Department of Human Resources;
10. The district attorney of the Griffin Judicial Circuit or any successor judicial circuit that embraces or includes the superior court of Spalding County;
11. The chairman of the Board of Midway Recovery Systems in the City of Griffin;
12. The president of the Griffin-Spalding County Medical Association;
13. The president of the Griffin-Spalding County Pharmacy Association;
14. The president of the Griffin Ministerial Association;
15. The president of the Griffin Ministerial Alliance;
16. The president of the Griffin-Spalding County Civic Improvement League;
17. The president of the Coalition of the Griffin-Spalding County Parents & Teachers Association;
18. The Griffin District Post Commander of this Georgia State Patrol;
19. The president of the Griffin-Spalding County Chamber of Commerce;
20. The president of the student body of Griffin High School;
21, 22. One (1) member shall be appointed to each of these two (2) posts by the governing authority of the City of Griffin for such term of office as such board may desire during the five-year period of existence of such commission; and
23, 24. One (1) member shall be appointed to each of these two (2) posts by the governing authority of the County of Spalding for such term of office as such board may desire during the five-year period of such commission.
  (b)
Each of the officers in posts 1 through 20 shall serve as a member of such commission only during his or her respective term of office and each shall be succeeded as a member of such commission by his or her respective successor in office during the five-year term of existence of said commission, with the right and privilege of any such officer, should he or she deem it inappropriate for any reason or cause to serve on such commission, to designate a member to serve in his or her place on said commission. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 4)
Sec. 5.125. - Vacancies.
(a)
Any vacancy in the above designated post 21 or 22 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person appointed by the governing authority of the City of Griffin.
(b)
Any vacancy in the above-designated post 23 or 24 occurring by the death, resignation, or otherwise of such member shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose seat has been vacated by a person appointed by the governing authority of the County of Spalding.
(c)
If any of the above-designated offices of members of posts 1 through 20 should become vacant or be discontinued or become nonexistent for any cause or reason whatever, the grand jury of the superior court, of Spalding County shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy. (1988 Ga. Laws, 4053, § 5)
Sec. 5.126. - Officers.
Annually, the commission shall elect one of its members to serve as chairman of the commission and another of its members to serve as vice-chairman of the commission. The board may also elect a clerk or secretary of such commission, who need not be a member of the commission and who shall serve at the will of the commission. The commission may designate, appoint, or employ such other officers, agents, and employees as the commission may deem proper. The chairman shall preside at all meetings of the commission and shall serve as its chief executive officer. For and during the absence, disqualification, or disability of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall serve as chairman. If the chairman's seat is vacated, the vice-chairman shall assume the duties of the chairman until such time as the chairman's vacancy is filled by the election of another by the commission. If the vice-chairman's seat is vacated, the commission shall elect another of its members to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term of office. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 6)
Sec. 5.127. - Meetings.
The commission shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting quarter-annually at such time and place as the commission may from time to time designate. The time, date, and place of any such regular meeting may be changed as the members of the commission may deem meet and proper. The commission may hold such other regular, special, or additional meetings as it may deem necessary or proper. No notice shall be required to be given for any regular meeting, being any meeting designated to be held regularly by resolution of the members of the commission, such as quarter-annual, bimonthly, monthly, semimonthly, or weekly meetings or other such meetings held at regular periodic intervals. The commission is authorized to provide for the holding of special meetings, to provide for the time, place, and manner of holding and calling special meetings, and to provide for giving notice and waiver of notice at the time, place, and purpose of such meetings, all as the members of said commission, in their sole discretion, shall deem proper. A majority of the members then serving on the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the members of the commission present at any meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum can be obtained. Notice of any adjourned meeting need only be given by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. All resolutions adopted and all business transacted by the commission shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the members present at the meeting. From time to time, the members of the commission may fix an agenda for any meeting or meetings and may adopt such rules of order which they shall deem appropriate which shall govern the conduct and procedure of their meetings. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 7)
Sec. 5.128. - Operating budgets.
It is anticipated that the primary source of capital to defray the costs and expenses of the commission will be borne jointly by the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding with each such entity contributing an equal amount to the commission for such purpose on or before the first day of July of each of the five (5) years of the existence of the commission and beginning on July 1, 1988. The commission shall make a written request to the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding for operating funds pursuant to an operating budget made by the commission. The first such request for funds shall be submitted to the respective governing authorities of the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding on or before April 15, 1988; and each of the four (4) succeeding annual requests shall be submitted on or before April 1 of each of the next four (4) years. The amount of each such contribution shall be entirely discretionary with the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding. In addition to any such annual contribution, both the City of Griffin and the County of Spalding are hereby authorized to make such additional contributions to the commission as each such entity may deem appropriate, solely within the sound discretion of such entity making the contribution. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 8)
Sec. 5.129. - Compensation.
From funds granted to or acquired by the commission, the members of the commission shall fix and determine the amount of, and the time and manner of paying, compensation to its members, officers, agents, and employees, all within their sound discretion. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 9)
Sec. 5.130. - Purpose and authorizations.
Said commission is created for the purpose of taking all such actions and doing all such things, as it shall deem meet and proper, to deter and control, with the intent to ultimately eliminate, the unlawful use, consumption, possession, sale, transfer, delivery, dispensing, handling, trafficking, manufacturing, and growing of dangerous drugs or controlled substances, as defined by the laws of Georgia; and said commission is hereby authorized:
(1)
To work and cooperate with, and to seek the cooperation of, the City of Griffin and all other municipalities of the State of Georgia; the County of Spalding and all other counties or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia; the State of Georgia, including each of its departments, agencies, entities, or instrumentalities; and the United States of America, including each of its departments, agencies, entities, or instrumentalities, in the furtherance of the purpose of the commission;
(2)
To prepare, publish, and disseminate information in support of its purpose;
(3)
To serve as the community clearing-house for information and research relative to dangerous drugs and controlled substances;
(4)
To expend, use and disburse its funds and properties, pursuant to its powers and authorizations herein provided, to accomplish the above-stated purpose of the existence of such commission;
(5)
To provide programs such as drug prevention programs, drug treatment programs, and such other programs that it may deem meet and proper in the fulfillment of its purpose and objectives; and
(6)
To do any and all other things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authorizations granted to it. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 10)
Sec. 5.131. - Additional powers.
The commission shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To enter into agreements with the City of Griffin, with the County of Spalding, or with any other political subdivision or municipal corporation of the state in the exercise of its charge;
(4)
To receive and accept gifts and grants of money and property from the private or public sectors of our society and to expend, use, or disburse all such money and property granted only in the course of business of the commission or for other public purposes;
(5)
To make contracts, leases, and conveyances and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient for the purpose of exercising its powers and performing its duties and functions as herein set out;
(6)
To make loans with, and accept grants of loans of money or property of any kind from, the United States of America, or any agency or instrumentality thereof; the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality thereof; the City of Griffin, the County of Spalding, or any other municipality or political subdivision of the State of Georgia, upon such terms and conditions as such governmental entity, agency, municipality, county, or political subdivision may require or impose;
(7)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders of such promissory notes evidencing such indebtedness;,
(8)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to private corporations which is not in conflict with the purposes of the commission; and
(9)
To do all things necessary or convenient to execute and carry out the powers expressly given and provided in this act. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 11)
Sec. 5.132. - Tax-exempt status of the commission.
The properties of the commission, both real and personal, are hereby declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private benefit and income; and all such properties of the commission shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 12)
Sec. 5.133. - Rules and regulations.
It shall be the duty of the commission to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the commission and the conduct of its business and for the operation of any project sponsored by the commission. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 13)
Sec. 5.134. - Obligations of the commission.
No debt or obligation whatsoever incurred by the commission shall be construed to be a debt or obligation of either the City of Griffin or the County of Spalding. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 14)
Sec. 5.135. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against the commission may be brought in the state court of Spalding County or the superior court of Spalding County, and such courts shall have the exclusive, original jurisdiction of any such actions. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 15)
Sec. 5.136. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing provisions of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to the powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing. (1988 Ga. Laws, p. 4053, § 16)
Secs. 5.137—5.140. - Reserved.
