CHAPTER 7. - DEALERS OF PRECIOUS METALS AND GEMS

Sec. 6-7001. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the term:
(1)
Dealer in precious metals or gems means:
(A)
Any person engaged in the business of purchasing precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems from persons or sources other than manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals or gems; or
(B)
A person engaged in any other business if, in conjunction with such business, precious metals or gems or goods made from persons or sources other than manufacturers, manufacturers' representatives, or other dealers in precious metals or gems where such purchase is for resale in its original form or as changed by remounting, melting, re-forming, remolding, or recasting or for resale as scrap or in bulk.
(2)
Gems means any precious or semiprecious stone which is cut and polished.
(3)
Numismatic coins means coins whose value as collectors' items exceeds the value of the content of the precious metals in the coins.
(4)
Person means an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trust, association, or any other legal entity however organized.
(5)
Precious metals means gold, silver, or platinum or any alloy containing gold, silver, or platinum.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § I, 11-7-11)
Sec. 6-7002. - Purpose/legislative intent.
It is hereby declared to be within the public welfare for this county to impede the sale of stolen property by requiring dealers of precious gems and dealers of metals, (hereinafter referred to as "dealers") within the county to post electronically and in a timely fashion the information obtained from pledges and sellers in a format available to and usable by law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § II, 11-7-11)
Sec. 6-7003. - Records and information to be recorded upon receipt of property.
Every dealer within the county shall secure from every person from whom he receives any precious metals and gems, (hereinafter referred to as "metals and gems") whether by purchase or through pledge, trade, pawn or exchange, the following:
(a)
Government-issued photo identification card, such as a driver's license, military identification card, state identification card, or passport;
(b)
The name, address, telephone number, race, sex, height, weight, date of birth, and a Social Security or driver's license number;
(c)
A digital photograph clearly showing a frontal view of the subject's face (digital images shall be labeled with the date and time of the transaction and stored in such a manner that they are safe from corruption);
(d)
The fingerprint of the right hand index finger, unless such finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger available on the right hand shall be obtained with a notation of the exact finger printed;
(e)
Written description of property or item received, including serial number or other identifying marks, if available, and digital photograph of property or item, labeled with date and time of transaction.
The dealer shall maintain the above information, digital photographs, and fingerprint for a period of three (3) years and make the same available to law enforcement personnel upon request.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § III, 11-7-11)
Sec. 6-7004. - Required format of report to police.
Every dealer located within the county shall make a computer-generated daily report, in such format as prescribed by the Sheriff of Spalding County, of all transactions that occurred during the twenty-four-hour period, ending at 9:00 p.m. on the date of the report. A report shall be made for each day the dealer transacts business. Daily reports shall be filed electronically by posting to a law enforcement website designated by the sheriff of this county. Where temporary technological problems prevent posting the daily report electronically, a printed, typed, or legibly handwritten report shall be delivered to the sheriff's department in lieu thereof.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § IV, 11-7-11)
Sec. 6-7005. - Violations and penalties.
Any person who willfully and intentionally fails to obtain the information and maintain the records, digital photographs, and fingerprints, or to file the daily reports required by this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), incarceration not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § V, 11-7-11)
Sec. 6-7006. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall do anything prohibited by this chapter as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, or who shall fail to do anything required by this chapter as it now exists or as it may hereafter be amended, is hereby declared to be in violation of this article and the regulations or county ordinances herein set forth.
(b)
Each and every day that any such violation exists shall be deemed in a separate offense.
(c)
Any such violation of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, as prescribed by the law of Georgia, shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed the maximum fine or the maximum imprisonment, or both, as prescribed by the pertinent laws of Georgia and as more particularly set out in section 1-1007 of this Code, which such section is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(d)
The imposition of any such fine or imprisonment, or both, for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such violators shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within the time as prescribed by the court having jurisdiction of such matter and in the absence of any such completion time being fixed by the court, within a reasonable time after such violations occur.
(e)
The application of any fine, imprisonment or other penalty shall not be construed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or to postpone any action required.
(f)
The remedies herein set out for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be exclusive, but shall be cumulative of all other remedies, civil or criminal, provided by the laws of Georgia, or by the ordinances of Spalding County.
(Ord. No. 2011-05, § VI, 11-7-11)
