ARTICLE A. - ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES

Sec. 2-3001. - County manager.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. Section 36-5-22, there is created the position of county manager for Spalding County. The county manager shall be the chief administrative officer and head of the administrative branch of the county government. The county manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Spalding County, who shall determine and prescribe his or her compensation and term of office; provided, however, that no employment contract with such officer shall extend for a term of more than four (4) years. Said board may contract with the county manager on such terms as it may deem reasonable and prudent. No member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed county manager during the term of office for which he or she is elected or for a period of one (1) year after terminating his or her office as a commissioner of Spalding County. The county manager shall devote all of his or her working time and attention to the affairs of the county and shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the efficient administration of all of the affairs of the county over which such officer has jurisdiction. The employment contract of a county manager may be terminated or suspended for cause by the board of commissioners upon giving the county manager at least seven (7) days' notice in writing before the hearing of the charges against him or her and an opportunity for a hearing of such charges before the board at a closed meeting unless both parties, the county manager, and the board of commissioners agree for such hearing to be open to the public. The board of commissioners by ordinance may provide the particular causes or grounds for the termination or suspension of any and all of its appointees, including, but not limited to, the county manager, the clerk of said board, the county attorney, special counsel, the county physician, auditors, accountants, engineers, surveyors, other professionals, and its appointees to any and all boards and committees created by a resolution of the board or an ordinance of Spalding County.
(b)
No person shall be chosen as county manager before such person shall have attained twenty-five (25) years of age. Such person shall be of good character and of proven executive ability and experience. The county manager shall be chosen by the board of commissioners primarily on the basis of such person's executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to such person's actual experience in, or such person's knowledge of the accepted practices with respect to the duties of, such public administrative office. At the time of such person's appointment he or she need not be a resident of the county or state, but during such person's tenure of office, such person shall reside within Spalding County.
(c)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. Section 36-5-22, of the board of commissioners shall determine and prescribe, from time to time, the duties and responsibilities of the county manager; and said board is further authorized, in its sole judgment, to require any county manager to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond as approved by the board, payable to Spalding County, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. The monetary amount of said bond shall be determined solely by the board of commissioners. Said bond shall be delivered to the board of commissioners at a time specified by the board, and, upon receipt thereof, such bond shall be filed by the chairman of the board of commissioners in the office of the probate court of Spalding County.
(d)
The county manager shall not engage in or be concerned with local partisan politics or any local political campaign. The county manager shall not contribute to any local candidate's campaign fund or solicit funds for local political purposes from any other person. The county manager shall not be eligible for election as a member of the board of commissioners of Spalding County for a period of one (1) year after his or her termination of service as county manager.
(1992 Ga. Laws, Act No. 888, § 1)
Editor's note— Act No. 888 of 1992, § 1, amended Ga. 1873, p. 289, as amended. Although that act was not included in this section, the editor has included § 1 of Act No. 888 as 2-3001. See also § 2.14 of Division I of this publication.
Sec. 2-3002. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2012-02, adopted 1-9-12, repealed § 2-3002, which pertained to deputy county manager and derived from Ord. No. 2010-03, § 1, 10-4-10.
Secs. 2-3003—2-3010. - Reserved.
