Part X - JUDICIAL
CHAPTER 1. - MAGISTRATE COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— A resolution of June 21, 1983, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of the substantive provisions of §§ 1—7 of said resolution as Ch. 1 of Part X, §§ 10-1001—10-1007, is at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Additional costs in magistrate court cases for county law library maintenance, § 7.81.

Sec. 10-1001. - Established; jurisdiction.
There is hereby established a magistrate court which shall be known as the "Magistrate Court of Spalding County," whose jurisdiction and power shall be as provided by the laws of the State of Georgia.
(Res. of 6-21-83, § 1)
Sec. 10-1002. - Location.
Offices and courtrooms of the magistrate court shall be located in the Spalding County Courthouse in the area formerly housing the Small Claims Court of Spalding County. Provided, however, that office space for use outside of regular business hours shall be as provided at the Spalding County Sheriff's Department.
(Res. of 6-21-83, § 2)
Sec. 10-1003. - Chief magistrate.
(a)
Appointment; election. As provided by state law, the judges of the Superior Court of Spalding County have appointed a chief magistrate, who shall serve the balance of the present term of justice of the peace, said term to expire December 31, 1984. The chief magistrate taking office on January 1, 1985, shall be chosen by election as provided by law.
(b)
Salary. The salary of the chief magistrate shall be as provided for the small claims court judge, as set by legislation, and such salary shall continue in effect to the end of the present term of the chief magistrate. Said salary may be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners of Spalding County from time to time, and may be changed as provided by law.
(Res. of 6-21-83, § 3)
Sec. 10-1004. - Part-time magistrates; appointments; compensation; eligibility for benefits.
(a)
The judges of the Superior Court of Spalding County have authorized two (2) other magistrates to serve Spalding County. Such number may be altered by local law or by the judges of the Superior Court of Spalding County.
(b)
Of those magistrates so authorized hereinabove, one shall serve as magistrate for the balance of the present term of the justice of the peace, said term to expire December 31, 1984, and the other shall serve as magistrate for the balance of the present term of justice of the peace, said term to expire February 8, 1987. Successor magistrates shall be selected as provided by law.
(c)
Each magistrate shall be paid an annual salary of five thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($5,250.00) each, payable in equal monthly installments. In addition, each magistrate other than the chief magistrate shall receive an expense allowance of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month.
(d)
Magistrates other than the chief magistrate shall be considered as part-time magistrates, and as such part-time officers of the county, shall not be eligible for such benefits as are available to full-time officers and employees of Spalding County, as outlined in the county's personnel ordinance and policies.
(Res. of 6-21-83, § 4)
Sec. 10-1005. - Constables; appointments; compensation; eligibility for benefits.
(a)
There is hereby authorized one (1) full-time constable and one (1) part-time constable to perform the duties of office as provided by law. Constables shall be appointed by, and shall serve at the pleasure of, the chief magistrate. Compensation of said constables shall be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Spalding County, and shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
(b)
The full-time constable shall be eligible for, shall receive, all benefits and privileges accorded to any full-time employee of Spalding County.
(c)
The part-time constable shall not be eligible for such benefits as are available to full-time officers and employees of Spalding County.
(Res. of 6-21-83, § 5; Res. of 7-5-83)
Sec. 10-1006. - Clerk of court; appointment; compensation; eligibility for benefits.
(a)
There is hereby authorized one (1) clerk of magistrate court to be appointed by, and to serve at the pleasure of, the chief magistrate. Compensation of said clerk shall be fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners, and shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
(b)
The clerk shall be a full-time employee, and as such, shall be eligible for, and shall receive all benefits and privileges accorded to any full-time employee of Spalding County. (Res. of 6-21-83, § 6)
Sec. 10-1007. - Other personnel.
(a)
There is hereby authorized one (1) part-time clerical employee for the magistrate court, to be appointed by, and to serve at the pleasure of the chief magistrate. Compensation of said clerical employee shall be fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners, and shall be paid in like manner as compensation for other part-time employees of Spalding County. Said part-time clerical employee shall not be eligible for such benefits as are available to full-time officers and employees of Spalding County.
(b)
Nothing herein shall prohibit the board of commissioners from authorizing additional part-time or full-time personnel for the magistrate court as may be necessary from time to time, or of altering the number or status of other personnel as hereinbefore authorized from time to time as may be necessary, and so long as such amendments do not conflict with state law. (Res. of 6-21-83, § 7)
