Organization of the Code

Article 1. - Adoption, purpose and applicability.
This article provides for the adoption of the Unified Development Code, sets out its purpose and intent, describes the lands and development to which the Code applies, shelters approved permits from changes in the regulations, and provides for the continuation of preexisting uses, structures, lots and signs that are not in conformity with the provisions of this Code.
Article 2. - Use of land and structures.
This article defines the zoning districts in the county and identifies the specific uses to which land and structures may be put in the various zoning districts, including certain uses or structures for which special approval is required in order to be allowed. In addition, this article identifies specific uses within each zoning district to which restrictions may apply, which are presented in article 3 of this Code.
Article 3. - Restrictions on particular uses.
The purpose of [this] article 3 is to provide land use and development regulations for specific uses that are applicable to sites throughout Oconee County. Unless otherwise noted, these standards are intended to be applied within all zoning districts where the particular uses are allowed, whether by right or through special use approval.
Article 4. - Lot and building standards.
This article sets out the standards that control the size of lots, the placement and size of buildings and structures on a lot, and the intensity of development on a lot.
Article 5. - Subdivisions and planned developments.
This article presents the different ways that land can be subdivided and developed, ranging from traditional subdivisions, to open space subdivisions where green space and natural features are preserved by reducing lot sizes, to master planned developments which allow a wider variety of housing types in a well-planned mixed-use environment while also preserving green space and natural features.
Article 6. - Parking and loading requirements.
This article sets out the requirements and restrictions on the provision of automobile parking spaces for each development to accommodate its residents, employees, customers and visitors, and for adequate truck parking to serve any business or industrial building, hospital, institution, or hotel. The provisions of this article apply equally to each designated use without regard to the zoning district in which it is located.
Article 7. - Sign regulations.
This article provides for the types of signs that may be placed on a property, and regulates such characteristics as their size, number, placement, and timing (for temporary events).
Article 8. - Landscaping and buffers.
The purpose of this article is to improve the aesthetic qualities of the county and to protect and preserve the appearance, character and value of its neighborhoods and business areas by:
a.
Providing for quality and consistency in the design of landscaping and screening; and
b.
Providing for the separation of incompatible types of land use.
Article 9. - Environmental protection.
This article sets out the minimum requirements and standards for the protection of the natural environment within the county, including restrictions on the use of land near certain rivers and streams, within water supply watersheds, within groundwater recharge areas susceptible to pollution, and in wetlands in order to:
a.
Protect the drinking water quality of the rivers, streams, reservoirs and aquifers that supply water to the residents of the jurisdiction and the state;
b.
Protect the natural habitat of animal and plant life relative to water resources; and
c.
Protect valuable water-related and other natural resources, to help control erosion and river sedimentation, for contribution to drought management, and to help absorb flood waters.
Article 10. - Project design and construction standards.
This article sets out the minimum requirements and standards for construction of subdivisions and other land development projects, including general principals of design and layout and requirements for such public facilities as streets and utilities.
Article 11. - Erosion control and stormwater management.
This article contains the requirements that relate to the impact of rainfall events on the natural and manmade environment, including the erosion and siltation effects of site grading and land disturbance activities, the control of stormwater flows and the potentially damaging effects of flooding.
Article 12. - Procedures and permits.
This article describes the process through which a rezoning or special use may be approved on a property, the approval process for construction of subdivisions and other land development projects, and how special districts can be established to fund such facilities as street lights in a neighborhood.
Article 13. - Appeals.
This article describes the process for addressing unusual situations or unique problems that may arise from the strict interpretation or enforcement of this Development Code, including appeals from an administrative decision, for a special exception, and for unique hardships restricting reasonable use of a property.
Article 14. - Administration and enforcement.
This article sets out the structure, procedures and responsibilities of the various administrative officers for administering, amending and enforcing this Development Code, and set out penalties for violations.
Article 15. - Interpretation and definitions.
This article describes how figures, words and phrases used in this Development Code are to be interpreted, and provides a glossary of all definitions specifically used in the text of this Development Code.
