ARTICLE 98-9. - PARKING AND LOADING

Sec. 98-9.1. - Intent.
The intent of city council in adopting these standards is to:
(1)
Allow flexibility in addressing vehicle parking, loading and access requirements;
(2)
Create an appropriate range of parking and loading space standards that establishes minimum and maximum ratios for parking and loading spaces; and
(3)
Ensure that off-street parking, loading, and access requirements are met without adversely affecting nearby uses, particularly surrounding neighborhoods.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.2. - Off-street parking included in permitted uses.
The respective uses permitted in each zoning district shall be deemed to include off-street parking of vehicles accessory or incidental to any use permitted within such district.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.3. - Off-street parking and loading spaces required.
Every building on a lot, every addition erected or building moved on to a lot and every use of a lot following the date of adoption of this article shall be accompanied by off-street parking and loading spaces in compliance with section 98-9.11, minimum and maximum off-street parking and loading ratios. Those ratios are deemed to be the minimum necessary to accommodate the demand for parking and loading associated with the proposed use of a lot. The property owner shall be responsible for providing sufficient parking and loading spaces and vehicle maneuvering space appropriate to the specific use or uses on the lot prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.4. - Continuing obligation.
A.
The property owner or leasee shall permanently maintain the parking and loading spaces in compliance with this article. It shall be unlawful for a property owner or leasee to diminish or discontinue the vehicle parking or loading spaces required by this article without first establishing alternate vehicle parking and loading spaces in compliance with the standards of this article.
B.
Should an addition be made to a building, an expansion of a use or a change in use be proposed, parking and loading spaces in an amount that maintains the property in compliance with section 98-9.11, minimum and maximum off-street parking and loading ratios, shall be provided. No addition to an existing building shall be built or a use of property expanded that reduces the number of spaces, area or usability of existing parking or loading spaces unless such building or any addition or expansion of a use complies with the parking and loading standards of this article.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.5. - Maximum paved surfaces.
As many business owners equate abundant parking supply with increased sales, paved surface maximums are hereby established to guard against increased stormwater runoff, heat islands and unsightly seas of asphalt. The building official shall evaluate the availability of all paved surfaces, whether striped or not, serving to prevent excessive pavement on a development site.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.6. - Relaxation of parking and loading standards.
Deviation from the parking or loading standards, or both, may be considered by the building official upon presentation of an inventory of parking or loading usage patterns by the applicant. Such inventory shall document the use of parking or loading facilities, or both, on similar properties. The inventory shall report the number of parking or loading spaces present on the property, number occupied, time and date of the inventory, address of the property, use of the property and building floor area. Such inventory shall be verifiable by performance of an independent inventory by the building official. Should the inventory indicate that an alternate parking and/or loading ratio is appropriate, the standards of this section shall be adjusted accordingly, but only for that property.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.7. - Sharing of off-street parking spaces.
A.
Applicants wishing to use shared parking as a means of reducing the total number of required spaces may submit a shared parking analysis using the Urban Land Institute (ULI) Shared Parking Model (latest edition).
B.
The findings of the shared parking analysis must be provided in a form established by the building official.
C.
Reductions in the total number of required spaces for shared parking shall not be permitted unless the building official determines that a reduction is appropriate on a case-by-case basis through the use of the ULI Shared Parking Model (latest edition).
D.
Uses providing shared parking must have either mutually exclusive or compatibly overlapping normal hours of operation. The building official shall determine whether hours of operation are compatibly overlapping on a case-by-case basis using the ULI Shared Parking Model (latest edition).
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.8. - Design standards for off-street parking spaces and aisles.
The following design standards shall apply to off-street parking and aisles:
A.
Minimum parking space dimensions. The minimum dimensions for 90 degree parking spaces shall be nine feet wide and 18 feet deep. Compact spaces shall measure a minimum of 120 square feet with a minimum width of eight feet. Twenty percent of the total parking spaces may be designated as compact spaces. Each compact space shall be clearly marked.
B.
Parking lot aisles. Aisles designed for two-way traffic shall have a minimum width of 24 feet. Aisles designed for one-way traffic shall have a minimum width of 14 feet for 45 degree parking, 18 feet for 46 to 60 degree parking and 22 feet for 61 to 90 degree parking. Minimum dimensions for parking lot aisles for angled parking are provided in the Google Images graphic reprinted below:
C.
Stacking lane. A stacking lane shall be required for drive-up windows adequate in length to prevent vehicle queuing on a public street.
D.
Interior aisles shall connect each parking space to a public street or a private street approved by the city.
E.
Standards for landscaped islands are found in section 98-10.9, landscaping standards for parking lots.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.9. - Design standards for loading spaces.
The following standards shall comprise the design standards for off-street loading spaces:
A.
Required dimensions. Each loading space shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and 30 feet in length provided that loading spaces serving a wholesale or industrial use shall be a minimum of 12 feet wide and 50 feet in length.
B.
Access. All off-street loading spaces shall have access via an alley, or if no alley is present, from a public or private street. Such access shall be two-way and have a minimum dimension of 24 feet.
C.
Loading space to be restricted. All non-residential properties shall accommodate a minimum of one loading space. Adequate maneuvering space shall be designed to ensure that delivery truck drivers are not required to back into the street. No parking space established to achieve compliance with the standards of this article shall be used as a loading space.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.10. - Standards for off-street parking and loading spaces.
A.
Surfacing. All off-street parking and loading spaces and access and interior driveways shall be designed to ensure proper drainage and to provide curb and gutter. All such areas shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, pavers, pervious concrete or porous asphalt and maintained in good condition free of weeds, dust and debris. All parking spaces shall be marked.
B.
Lighting. All parking and loading areas and driveways shall be properly lit for the safety of pedestrians and motorists in compliance with the Illuminating Engineer Society's current illumination recommendations. Lighting shall be designed to prevent spillover onto adjacent property or the public right-of-way. Lighting shall also be shielded to achieve "Dark Sky" objectives that require lighting to be directed downward.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.11. - Minimum and maximum off-street parking and loading ratios.
The ratios in table 9.1, parking and loading minimum and maximum ratios, are the minimum necessary to fulfill the off-street parking and loading standards for allowed uses. A maximum ratio is also given in certain instances to provide for variation in these ratios as appropriate to the individual development and to allow the community to benefit from reduced impervious surface. The parking and loading requirements for any use not specifically named in table 9.1 shall be determined by the building official who shall reference the parking or loading ratios for the named use most closely related to the proposed use.
EXPAND
Table 9.1 Parking and Loading Minimum and Maximum Ratios
Use Parking ratio Loading space ratio
Adult day care centers One space for every four adults receiving care, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift None
Any commercial use not otherwise named Minimum: one space for every 400 square feet of gross floor area Maximum: one space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area As determined by the building official
Apartments Minimum: one and one half spaces per dwelling unit and one additional space for every four units Maximum: two spaces per dwelling unit and one additional space for every four units. N/A
Assisted living facilities One space for every four adults receiving care, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Automobile repair shops Minimum: one space for every service bay, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift Maximum: four spaces for every service bay, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift None
Automobile sales One space for every 800 square feet of showroom space, excluding inventory, and one space for every 200 square feet of office space None
Banks and other financial institutions One space for every 200 square feet of floor area available to customers, plus one space per teller window None
Barber and beauty shops One space for every employee, plus one space for every employee station None
Bed and breakfast inns Two spaces for the inn operator, plus one space for every guest room None
Boarding and rooming houses One space for every two resident beds, plus one space for every two employees One space
Bowling lanes Minimum: two spaces for every lane, plus one space for every 200 square feet of entertainment area Maximum: four spaces for every lane, plus one space for every 100 square feet of entertainment area One for every 50 lanes or fraction thereof
Business schools and trade schools One space for every employee plus one space for each three students based on the maximum number of students attending classes at any time One space for the first 10,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 20,000 square feet
Child care learning centers One space per 500 square feet of floor area None
Child caring institutions One space for every eight children, plus one space for every employee None
Climate controlled storage facilities One space for every 40 rental units and one space for each employee. See subsection 98-5.3.2.13, climate-controlled storage facilities. One space for every 200 rental spaces or major fraction thereof
Colleges and universities One space for every professor and every employee, plus one space for every four seats in an assembly hall, plus one space for every four students One space for the first 30,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Convenience store with fuel sales Minimum: one space for every 400 square feet of gross floor area Maximum: one space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area None
Dormitories and related housing One space for every two residents, plus one space for every three full-time employees One
Duplexes, triplexes and quadruplexes Two spaces per dwelling unit N/A
Elementary and middle schools One space for every teacher and other full-time employees, plus one space for every four seats in the largest auditorium or gymnasium One space for the first 30,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Family child care learning homes One space for every four children under care, plus two spaces for residents of the dwelling None
Fast food drive-in restaurants One space for every 75 square feet of indoor and outdoor dining area, plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift One space
Funeral homes and mortuaries The greater of one space for every three seats in an assembly area or one space for every 50 square feet of floor area available to the public, plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift, plus one space for every vehicle used by the business None
Furniture and appliance stores One space for every 400 square feet of floor area available to the public, plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Gas stations Four spaces for each service bay None
Golf courses, public and private 50 spaces per 9 holes, w/out club facilities. 50 spaces per 9 holes, plus one space per 1,000 square feet w/club facilities None w/out club facilities; one space w/club facilities
Grocery stores and specialty food stores Minimum: one space for every 150 square feet of floor area, excluding storage areas Maximum: one space for every 75 square feet of floor area, excluding storage areas Two spaces for the first 10,000 square feet of floor area and one space for each additional 50,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
Halfway house One space for every four residents and one space for every two support staff present during the largest shift One space for the first 10,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 20,000 square feet
High schools One space for every faculty member, plus one space for every three employees, plus one space for every ten students One space for the first 30,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Hospitals One space for every four beds, plus one space for every staff member on the largest shift One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Hotels and motels Minimum: one space for every two rooms when a shuttle is available, otherwise one space for every room, plus one space for every four employees on the largest shift Maximum: one space for every room, plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift One space for the first 60 rooms, plus one additional space for each additional 100 rooms or fraction thereof
Indoor recreation facilities One space for every 200 square feet of floor area One space for the first 30,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Laboratories, scientific and related One space for every 400 square feet of floor area One space for the first 5,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Libraries, museums and similar uses The greater of one space for every 400 square feet of floor area available to the public or one space for every three seats in the largest assembly room One space for the first 5,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Manufacturing The greater of one space for every 2,0000 square feet of gross floor area or major fraction thereof, or one space for every two employees on the largest shift; plus one space for each company vehicle operated from the premises One space for the first 10,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one space for each additional 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Medical offices and clinics One space for 250 square feet of floor area One space for the first 5,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Medical or dental clinics One space for every examination room, plus one space for every employee One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Mini-warehouses One space for every 5,000 square feet of storage units, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift One space for every 200 rental spaces or major fraction thereof
Mixed use dwellings and live-work units Two spaces per dwelling unit or live-work unit N/A
Mobile home parks One space for every dwelling unit N/A
Nursing homes, personal care homes and hospice facilities One space for every four beds, plus one space for every four employees on the largest shift, including nurses and visiting doctors One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 50,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Offices Minimum: one space for every 300 square feet of gross floor area Maximum: six spaces for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area None
Outdoor amusement facilities One space for every four fixed seats or one per 35 square feet of floor area used for moveable seats, plus one space 100 square feet of ground area identified for recreation One space for the first 5,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one additional space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Outdoor festivals One space per 500 square feet of ground area identified for festivals, including music festivals One space for the first 5,000 square feet of ground area, plus one for each additional 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Outdoor recreation facilities Tennis court: three spaces per court; basketball court: four per court; playing fields: 50 spaces per field; driving range: two spaces per tee; miniature golf: 20 spaces per 18 holes; swimming pool: 20 spaces, plus one space for every 50 square feet of pool area None
Personal care homes, group and congregate One space for every four adults receiving care, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Personal care homes, family One space for every four adults, plus one space for every two support staff present during the largest shift None
Places of assembly; clubs and lodge The greater of one space for every four seats in the main assembly hall or one space for every 35 square feet of floor area where fixed seating is not present or 6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area None
Places of worship One space for every four seats in the main assembly hall, or where no fixed seats are used, one space for every 50 square feet of floor area in the largest assembly hall None
Recycling center One and one-half spaces for 1,000 square feet of building floor area and one space for every outdoor recycling collection container Section 18.6.1
Restaurants and taverns Minimum: one space for every 200 square feet of indoor and outdoor dining area, plus one space for every four employees on the largest shift Maximum: one space for every 100 square feet of indoor and outdoor dining area, plus one space for every two employees on the largest shift One space for the first 3,000 square feet of floor area, plus one space for each additional 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Retail stores Minimum: one space for every 200 square feet of sales floor area available to the public Maximum: one space for every 100 square feet of sales floor area available to the public One space for the first 5,000 square feet, plus one space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Retirement home One space for every four residents, plus one space for each staff or visiting doctor N/A
Roadside stands Four spaces, plus one for every 200 square feet of ground area None
Salvage or junk yard One per employee on greatest shift, plus four per acre None
Service and repair establishments One space for every 300 square feet of floor area One space
Shopping centers One space for every 200 square feet of floor area, including common areas available to the public up to 15,000 square feet; one space 250 square feet for centers exceeding 15,000 square feet One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Single family detached dwellings Two spaces per dwelling unit N/A
Theaters One space for every two seats, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift None
Townhouses and condominiums Two spaces per dwelling unit N/A
Veterinary clinics One space for every examination room, plus one space for every employee One space for the first 5,000 square feet of floor area, plus one for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Warehouses Minimum: one space for every 2,000 square feet of gross floor area for the first 10,000 square feet, plus one space for every 4,000 square feet for the remaining space. Office parking shall be calculated based on office parking rates. Maximum: one space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area for the first 10,000 square feet, plus one space for every 2,000 square feet for the remaining space. Office parking shall be calculated based on office parking rates. One space for the first 10,000 square feet of gross floor area plus one space for each additional 30,000 square feet or fraction thereof
Wholesale stores Minimum: one space for every 300 square feet of floor area available to the public, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift Maximum: one space for every 150 square feet of floor area available to the public, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift One space for the first 6,000 square feet of gross floor area, plus one for each additional 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.12. - Miscellaneous parking provisions.
A.
A parking plan for all developments other than single family detached residential developments shall be submitted to the building official and fire chief with the construction drawings. These officials shall review the parking plan to ensure conformance with all applicable provisions of this article and fire and life safety codes. A certificate of occupancy for the development shall only be issued upon compliance with the approved parking plan.
B.
No parking lot shall be used for the sale, repair, dismantling, servicing or long term storage of any vehicle or equipment unless such uses are permitted in the zoning district in which the lot is located. The sale of vehicles is addressed in subsection 98-5.3.2.37, vehicle sales, that restricts the sale of vehicles to designated vehicle sales lots.
C.
Standards for landscaping of parking lots that are adjacent to a public right-of-way are addressed in section 98-10.9, landscaping standards for parking lots.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.13. - Accessible parking.
All new development and any planned alteration of parking lots (re-striping, re-surfacing, etc.) as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 2010 shall comply with 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design. Any alterations made after March 15, 2012 shall comply with the 2010 Standards to the maximum extent feasible. The accessible parking ratios in table 9.2, accessible parking ratios, shall be met as concerns accessible parking; one of every six accessible parking spaces, or fraction of six, shall be "van-accessible."
EXPAND
Table 9.2 Accessible Parking Ratios
Total number of parking spaces in parking facility
(lot or garage) Minimum total number of accessible parking spaces Minimum number of van accessible parking spaces
1—25 1 1
26—50 2 1
51—75 3 1
76—100 4 1
101—150 5 1
151—200 6 1
201—300 7 2
301—400 8 2
401—-500 9 2
501—1,000 2% of total spaces 2% of total spaces/6
1,001 and greater 20, plus 1 for every 100, or fraction thereof, over 1,000 2% of total spaces/6
  (Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
Sec. 98-9.14. - Access standards.
A.
Driveway access to non-residential lots.
1.
Limits on access. Any non-residential lot having a street frontage of 300 feet or less on the street from which access is proposed shall be limited to a maximum of one driveway that accommodates entry and exit to the lot. An additional entrance and exit drive for lots having a frontage in excess of 300 feet on a single street from which access is proposed may be approved upon demonstrating to the building official and chief of police the necessity of such access. Properties having a frontage in excess of 600 feet on a single street shall be entitled to a second driveway.
2.
Driveway placement. No driveway shall be located within 30 feet of any intersection or within five feet of any property boundary.
3.
Driveway width. The maximum width of any driveway, as measured at the "throat width," shall not exceed 30 feet except that a bona fide truck stop may exceed this maximum upon written approval by the police chief.
4.
Consolidation of access drives. Multiple driveways on properties with more than one driveway access for each 200 linear feet of frontage shall be consolidated when renovation of the building or buildings comprising more than 50 percent of the floor area or resurfacing of the parking lot involving more than 50 percent of the surface area of the parking lot is proposed. Permits for subsequent building or buildings renovation or parking lot resurfacing following the effective date of this chapter shall not be granted for a period of two years from the date of issuance of the initial building or resurfacing permit.
5.
Interparcel access. All commercial properties shall accommodate interparcel access. Vehicle access between and among all adjoining commercial properties via internal access networks shall be created when new development or parking lot resurfacing is proposed. Such access shall be accomplished by granting an access easement as described in subsection a. Access easements to each adjoining property owner. The benefit of such access is reduced traffic congestion, improved customer convenience and enhanced traffic flow and safety.
a.
Access easements. Recorded easements shall permit vehicle access between adjacent, commercial properties intended for tenant and customer use. Respective parking spaces may be limited to the use of the individual property owner. The granting of such easements shall become effective only upon the granting of a reciprocal easement by the adjoining property owner. Consenting owners shall extend the driveway pavement on their property to the point of access at the common property boundary.
b.
Relief. Whenever the adjoining land use would create a documented adverse impact on the property to which the easement would pertain, and such adverse impact outweighs the benefit of the reduced impact on the public street, city council may waive the requirement for such access.
B.
Driveway access to residential lots.
1.
Driveway width. Driveways accessing a one-car garage or a single parking pad on a lot containing a single family detached dwelling shall have a maximum width of ten feet. Driveways accessing a two-car garage or a tandem parking pad shall have a maximum width of 18 feet at the garage or parking pad and a maximum width of 12 feet at the street with a flare in the pavement extending no further than 20 feet from the garage or tandem parking pad.
2.
Driveway placement. No driveway shall be located within 20 feet of any street intersection or within five feet of any property boundary.
(Ord. No. 1166 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-5-22)
