ARTICLE IV. - UTILITIES AND SANITARY TAX COLLECTION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 82.

Sec. 90-161. - Billing procedures and liability for payment for services.
(a)
The city clerk of the city shall cause readings to be made by the designated employees of said city for all electric and water meters measuring consumption of such utility services provided by the city on at least a monthly basis. From the information provided by said meter readings the city clerk shall determine the quantities of water and electrical energy which have been supplied through each such meter since the previous readings, shall calculate therefrom the amounts due the city for such water, electrical and sewer services for the current billing cycle and shall add thereto the sanitary tax to which each user is subject. The city clerk shall, on or before the first day of each calendar month, prepare statements for the most recent meter reading cycle showing the amount of the charges imposed by the city for such water, electricity, sewer services and sanitary tax for each consumer of such services, and shall mail such statements to each such consumer. All bills for such utility services shall be due and payable without penalty by the final date for payment reflected thereon, and each such statement shall further reflect a service discontinuation date, all as shall be established by the city clerk for each such billing cycle. The final date for the payment of such utility services without penalty shall not be less than 15 days from the date of the mailing of such statement, and the service discontinuation date shall not be less than 16 days from the date of mailing such statement.
The bills for utility services shall clearly state in bold print the final date for payment of the bill without penalty, and shall further notify the consumers of such services that:
(1)
If payment for such services is not received by the final date for payment, an additional service charge will be imposed on the consumer.
(2)
A customer service representative of the city is available during normal business hours to answer questions, address complaints and objections, and to correct any errors on the bills.
(3)
The bill is the only notice which will be provided as to the charges shown, and if full payment, together with any service charges due, is not made by the service discontinuation date shown on the bill, the utility services to the served premises will be discontinued and will only be reconnected when full payment plus reconnection charges have been paid.
The mayor and council shall from time to time establish by resolution a schedule of service charges to be imposed for any utility bills not paid on a timely basis, and the fees for the services provided by the city to reconnect utility services that have been discontinued because of nonpayment.
(b)
Every person who receives any services from the city for which a charge is imposed by the city shall be liable therefor at the rate of charge then in effect.
(c)
When a city customer desires to discontinue receiving such utility or other services, such customer shall file a written request for the termination of such services with the city. Each customer that applies for utility or other services from the city shall be liable for all charges for such services provided to the location for which such services are requested until such customer has filed a written request with the city that such services be terminated and such services have been terminated pursuant to such written request.
(Ord. No. 829, § 2(30B-1), 8-16-94; Ord. No. 936, § 1, 12-4-01; Ord. No. 963, § 1, 8-5-03; Ord. No. 1026, § 3, 3-3-09)
Note— Former § 90-161. See editor's note, art. II, div. 2.
Cross reference— Single meter requirements, § 90-33; electric and water meters, § 90-181 et seq.
Sec. 90-162. - Discontinuation of services.
If full payment for water, electrical and sewer services and the sanitary tax has not been received by the city before the service discontinuation date shown on the monthly statement provided to each consumer of such utility services, the city clerk shall as soon thereafter as is practically possible cause all such utility services and all trash and garbage collection services to be discontinued and terminated to any premises which are serviced thereby. After the discontinuation of said service, same shall only be restored for the defaulting consumer when all outstanding bills, and all service fees and reconnection charges have been paid.
(Ord. No. 829, § 2(30B-2), 8-16-94; Ord. No. 936, § 1, 12-4-01; Ord. No. 1026, § 3, 3-3-09)
Note— Former § 90-112. See editor's note, art. II, div. 2.
Cross reference— Authority to temporarily discontinue utilities, § 2-85.
Sec. 90-163. - Right to restoration of utility services.
(a)
The city shall not refuse to supply utility services to any premises solely because of an unpaid indebtedness for utility services provided to a prior renter or lessee of such premises, who no longer occupies the premises.
(b)
The city shall not provide utility services to any consumer who has an outstanding unpaid indebtedness to the city for previously provided utility services until such time as such unpaid indebtedness is fully paid and satisfied.
(c)
Once utility services have been discontinued to any owner occupied premise, such services will not be provided in the name of any new owner or owners until all existing indebtedness for previously provided utility services, including all accrued service charges and penalties, have been fully paid.
(Ord. No. 829, § 2(30B-3), 8-16-94; Ord. No. 936, § 1, 12-4-01; Ord. No. 1026, § 3, 3-3-09)
Note— Former § 90-113. See editor's note, art. II, div. 2.
Sec. 90-164. - Lien rights.
In any instance where the owner of the real property serviced by water, electrical, or sewer services is also the person who incurred any unpaid charges due for the furnishing of any of such services, in addition to the right of the city to discontinue such services, the unpaid charges shall be a lien on such real property, and if collection of such unpaid charges cannot be effectuated by the discontinuation of such services, the city clerk shall issue executions against the real estate so served, with such executions to be enforced in the same manner as city taxes.
(Ord. No. 829, § 2(30B-4), 8-16-94; Ord. No. 1026, § 3, 3-3-09)
Note— Former § 90-114. See editor's note, art. II, div. 2.
Sec. 90-165. - Security deposits.
The mayor and council shall from time to time establish by resolution a schedule of security deposits to be procured by the city clerk from consumers of city utility services, to be maintained and held by the city clerk to insure the payment of all charges due for the furnishing of said services. The security deposit schedules so established from time to time shall be applicable to services to be initiated after the effective date thereof, and shall not be construed to require any additional deposits for services already then in existence. The amount of said deposit shall not be utilized or applied to billings for services made during the continuation of such services, but shall be refunded to the consumer upon the discontinuation of such utility services and after the payment in full of all charges due the city therefor.
In dealing with such security deposits the city clerk shall be authorized in his or her discretion:
(1)
To accept in lieu of a cash deposit from a renter or lessee of a single-family residential premises seeking utility services a written guaranty of payment to the city for all utility services provided said premises when duly executed and delivered by the then record owner or owners of subject premises with a satisfactory credit history with the city. The written guaranty shall be in form and content satisfactory to the city clerk and shall specifically provide that the city shall not be required to restore any further utility services to said premises after any discontinuation thereof until all amounts due for such services as covered by said written guaranty are fully paid. Further, said written guaranty shall provide that in addition to the right of the city to discontinue further utility services, any unpaid charges shall be a lien on said real property, and if collection of such unpaid charges cannot be effectuated by the discontinuation of such services, the city clerk shall be authorized to issue executions against the real estate so served, with such executions to be enforced in the same manner as city taxes.
(2)
Homeowners or building owners will not have to pay a deposit if they present proof of ownership of the premises to be served, and have good credit history with the city, or their most recent utility supplier. The term "good credit history" shall mean at least 18 months of timely payment of such person's utility account, without any late payment being assessed.
(Ord. No. 829, § 2(30B-4), 8-16-94; Ord. No. 936, § 1, 12-4-01; Ord. No. 952, § 1, 11-12-02; Ord. No. 955, § 3, 12-17-02; Ord. No. 1026, § 3, 3-3-09)
Note— Former § 90-115. See editor's note, art. II, div. 2.
Sec. 90-166. - Comprehensive utility turn-on inspection.
It is found and declared that there is in the city the existence of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are not in compliance with the applicable state minimum standard codes as adopted by ordinance or operation of law as well as the fire, life safety, or other codes relative to the safe use of real property and real property improvements adopted by ordinance in the city; and which constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this city; and that a public necessity exists for the inspection of such dwellings, buildings, or structures. It is further found and declared that there exist in the city dwellings, buildings, or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation and not in compliance with applicable codes; which have defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; or where other conditions exist rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city.
In furtherance of the aforesaid and to address said issues the following shall apply to all potential utility customers.
(1)
Before any utility services shall be provided to any customers within the city a utility turn-on inspection shall be completed by the city manager or his designee.
(2)
The parameters of the utility turn-on inspection shall be developed and promulgated by the city manager or his designee in order to address the aforesaid safety concerns.
(3)
Any issues revealed by said utility turn-on inspection shall be remedied by the applicant or property owner, as the case may be, and reinspected before utility services will be provided by the city.
(4)
The only exception to the aforesaid utility turn-on inspection requirement shall be that a comprehensive utility turn-on inspection shall not be required more than once every two years.
(Ord. No. 1077, 5-20-14)
Secs. 90-167—90-180. - Reserved.
