ARTICLE V. - SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS

Sec. 6-66. - Eligibility for a temporary special event alcohol permit.
(a)
A temporary special event alcohol permit may be issued to any person, firm or corporation for an approved special event. The person, firm or corporation must make application and pay the fee that may be required by this article and shall be required to comply with all the general provisions of this chapter and the licensing and regulations for consumption on the premises establishment with the exception of the full service kitchen requirement.
(b)
The special event must meet the following criteria before the issuance of a permit to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages:
(1)
The special event must receive approval from the Dawson County Sheriff's Office on crowd control and security measures.
(2)
The special event must receive approval from the Dawson County Sheriff's Office on traffic control measures.
(3)
The premises at which the special event is to take place must be within a commercial zone and approved by the director; if the proposed location is not within a commercial zone, the approval must be obtained from the board of commissioners.
(4)
The premises where the special event shall occur shall meet the distance from certain uses requirements of this chapter.
(c)
Any employee or volunteer of the special event permit holder working the special event in any position dispensing, selling, serving, taking orders or mixing alcoholic beverages shall be required to obtain an employee permit for the special event. Employees or volunteers dispensing, selling, serving, taking orders or mixing alcoholic beverages must be 18 years of age or older. Employees of caterers must comply with the regulations established in this article of this chapter and must be 21 years of age or older as pursuant to O.C.G.A. ยง 3-11-4.
(d)
The sheriff or fire chief, director or code enforcement official may immediately revoke any temporary permit for a special event if continued alcohol sales may endanger the health, welfare or safety of the public.
(e)
As a condition on the issuance of a temporary special event permit, the permit holder shall agree in writing to indemnify and hold Dawson County harmless from any claim, demand or cause of action that may arise from activities associated with the special event.
(f)
The director shall issue the temporary special event permit to the applicant upon compliance with the terms hereof.
(g)
In the event that a special event alcohol permit is denied by the director, the applicant may appeal the decision to the county commission.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-67. - Bona fide nonprofit civic organizations.
(a)
A bona fide nonprofit civic organization is one which is exempt from federal income tax pursuant to the provisions subsection (c), (d) or (e) of 26 USC section 501.
(b)
Upon the filing of an application and the payment of a special temporary event permit application fee, a bona fide nonprofit civic organization may obtain a permit authorizing the organization to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises or to sell wine at retail for off-premises consumption, or both, for a period not to exceed three days, subject to any law regulating the time for selling such beverages.
(c)
No more than 12 permits may be issued to such an organization in any one calendar year.
(d)
Permits are valid only for the location specified in the permit. No permit may be issued unless the sale of alcoholic beverages is lawful in the place for which the permit is issued. Said permit is subject to the restrictions set forth in section 6-66.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-68. - Other restrictions.
The provisions of sections 6-22 through 6-33 shall apply to sales at special events of malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits, and any references therein to malt beverages or wine shall also include distilled spirits for purposes of this article.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-69. - Reserved.
