ARTICLE V. - ROADS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY ORDINANCE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 7-21-2011, §§ 1.01—1.04, 2.01—2.06, 3.01—3.10, 4.01—4.05, 5.01, 5.02, VI, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence inclusion as §§ 42-11—42-114, 42-121—42-126, 42-131—42-140, 42-151—42-155, 42-161, 42-162, 42-163 was at the discretion of the editor. Attachments A and B are not set out herein but are available for review in the offices of the county.

DIVISION 1. - USE OF PUBLICLY-OWNED OR MAINTAINED ROADS OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 42-111. - General.
The following activities shall be prohibited to ensure a safe traveling environment for the motoring public on roadways in Dawson County and to protect Dawson County roadways from deterioration caused by persons using Dawson County roads and rights-of-way in a damaging manner:
(a)
The operation of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment that gouge, rip, break, create structural degradation, depress or otherwise deface or damage a public road;
(b)
The continued ingress or egress to or from a public road at a particular location that causes a build-up of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals or other materials, which present hazards to other persons using the public road or public rights-of-way; and
(c)
Using Dawson County's roads or rights-of-way for purposes that include, but are not limited to, turning, causing or allowing to be turned around any farm, mowing, weeding, field preparation, harvesting, earthmoving equipment or implement that results in damage to the right-of-way or the roadway.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 1.01)
Sec. 42-112. - Truck routes.
(a)
Street routes with truck restrictions. All motor vehicles having a gross vehicular weight in excess of 36,000 pounds, including the load thereon, or having an overall length in excess of 30 feet or having in excess of three axles, except vehicles designed to carry passengers, are prohibited from using any road within the unincorporated county authorized and designated as not allowing truck traffic by ordinance, except when the terminal, parking lot, repair garage or headquarters, or place of pickup or delivery of the restricted motor vehicle is not on a designated no truck route, ingress to and egress from such places shall be made by the most direct route available between the terminal, parking lot, repair garage, headquarters, or place of pickup or delivery and nearest designated truck route. The designation shall be appointed by the board of commissioners after recommendation by the public works department and/or the Georgia Department of Transportation in accord with the terms hereof.
(b)
Limited load street, bridges and culverts. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any road in the county if the weight of the vehicle with or without load is in excess of the weight designated by ordinance and if signs indicating such limitations are posted. Further, it shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle over a bridge or culvert in the county over the weight capacity shown on said bridge and/or culvert. The driver and/or owner shall be liable to the county for any damages caused by driving an overweight vehicle over any road, bridge and/or culvert so marked. This civil liability is in addition to any fine or punishment that may be assessed for violation of this article.
(c)
Inspection authorized. Any person driving or in charge or control of any of the restricted vehicles defined in subsection (a) when upon roads designated with truck restrictions shall present for inspection by the Dawson County Sheriff's Office a log book, weight slips, delivery slips or other written evidence of the destination and point of origin to justify the presence of the restricted vehicle on a road designated as allowing no trucks.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 1.02)
Sec. 42-113. - Street excavation.
(a)
No county road or right-of-way shall be cut or excavated in any way, except with written permission of the public works director and the Dawson County Manager after written request has been made accurately describing the excavation to be done and the location. The excavation of the right-of-way for the purpose of installing a driveway and or a culvert pipe shall follow the rules and regulations set forth in the Dawson County Driveway Ordinance. Applicant shall further provide evidence that a utility locate has been obtained via a utility protection center (UPC) ticket number.
(b)
A detailed plan (drawing) of the project shall be shown on a separate sheet and attached to the encroachment application (see attachment A) and shall be made a part of the application/permit.
(c)
The issuance of a right-of-way encroachment permit shall not constitute an easement. A right-of-way encroachment permit is for a use on the right-of-way only. Any and all damage caused upon the right-of-way because of installation or relocation of the utility or other encroachment shall be at the sole expense of the applicant or applicant's authorized agent. If Dawson County or its authorized agent makes improvements or changes to the right-of-way, then the applicant or applicant's authorized agent shall be required to relocate the utility or encroachment at the expense of applicant or applicant's authorized agent. If relocation of the utility or encroachment requires installation outside of the right-of-way, then Dawson County or its authorized agent shall bear the cost of relocating the encroachment or utility.
(d)
Dawson County or its authorized agent shall not be required to bear the expense to relocate any utility or other encroachment if right-of-way is provided for such utility or encroachment.
(e)
All utilities installed perpendicular to the county right-of-way shall be placed at a minimum of three feet below top of roadbed, dry bored, and in casings (NO CUTTING INTO ROADWAY EXCEPT IN EMERGENCY REPAIRS OF EXISTING UTILITIES). Utilities running parallel with County right-of-way or roadway shall be placed in accordance with the Dawson Specifications for County Road Resolution as amended. If county right-of-way is ditch to ditch, then the applicant shall obtain its own right-of-way or easement for the placement of utilities. All underground utilities shall be marked before beginning work. It is the responsibility of the applicant/utility owner to verify the limits of the right-of-way for the location of the facilities authorized hereby.
(f)
The utility or encroachment covered hereby shall be installed in accordance with the attached plan and subject to all Dawson County regulations for the control and protection of county-maintained roads and county right-of-way. All disturbed areas of right-of-way shall be repaired and replaced. All work shall be guaranteed for 18 months. Any deficiency found upon inspection shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of said utility company.
(g)
If the county undertakes to improve or relocate any portion of a county maintained road, then the applicant/utility owner shall be solely responsible for the expense of removing or relocating the utility. If the applicant fails to remove or relocate its facilities, upon due notice from the county, the applicant/utility owner shall be liable for any extraordinary costs or damages incurred by the county as a result thereof.
(h)
The Dawson County Public Works Department and the Dawson County Sheriff's Office Dispatch Center shall be notified at least 48 hours before any excavation begins. All work shall commence within six months of the date of approval of permit. Work, other than maintenance, shall be completed within one year of the date of approval of permit and shall be inspected by the public works department and approved by the public works director upon completion. Failure of approval by the public works director may result in the execution of the performance bond by Dawson County for the project.
(i)
In emergency situations if the public works director cannot be notified, then notification shall be given to the Dawson County Sheriff's Office Dispatch Center immediately and notification shall be given to the public works director in writing (attachment B) within 24 hours or as soon as possible the next business day.
(j)
Any road excavated pursuant to this article shall be replaced and restored to reasonably the same condition as prior to the excavation, including the re-grassing of the shoulders if damaged thereby, within 30 days of the beginning of the excavation work for each area. The public works department shall be notified when the construction activity is completed. A request for construction inspection shall be required before release.
(k)
Notice of the completion of the excavation restoration work required in subsection 42-113(j) of this article shall be made to the public works director, who shall inspect the restoration to ensure proper completion.
(l)
The applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless Dawson County from loss by reason of damage or injury to person or property caused by or resulting from cutting or removing trees upon the right-of-way or from any other cause associated with the issuance of a permit, exclusive of damage caused by or resulting from intentional misconduct of Dawson County's representatives. Applicant shall defend, at applicant's sole cost and expense, any lawsuit or claim resulting from any activity related to a permit. Applicant shall keep in force during the term of this permit a liability insurance policy or a bond in the sum of $10,000.00.
(m)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business or corporation to conduct an excavation along any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way within Dawson County without the prior consent and or notification of Dawson County as prescribed in this article.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 1.03)
Sec. 42-114. - Accessing of public roadways.
(a)
Any person, firm or corporation that seeks access to a public roadway by the installation of a temporary or permanent driveway or the temporary use of an existing driveway for purposes of excavating soil or other earth materials and/or the harvesting of timber shall make application to the Public Works Department of Dawson County and the construction or modification if necessary of the driveway, either temporary or permanent, shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations enumerated in the Dawson County Driveway Ordinance.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation that creates a temporary driveway or accesses a public road or right-of-way from an existing driveway for the excavation of soil or other earth materials and/or the harvesting of timber shall, in addition to returning the completed driveway permit as required in the Dawson County Driveway Ordinance, post a bond surety or letter of credit in the amount of $10,000.00 per each mile of roadway where access to the county road is established. Additionally, a map showing the proposed route trucks will travel along county roadways shall be required. Temporary driveways created for the purpose of access for the construction of a residential or commercial structure shall be exempt from this regulation.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 1.04)
Secs. 42-115—42-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OBSTRUCTION IN RIGHT-OF-WAY

Sec. 42-121. - [Purpose.]
The purpose of this section of the ordinance is to prevent a potentially hazardous situation from existing upon Dawson County rights-of-way that endangers the motoring public or impedes Dawson County from conducting maintenance work on the highways, roads or streets or the adjacent rights-of-way and maintaining the drainage coming from the roads.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.01)
Sec. 42-122. - [Object obstruction.]
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business or corporation to park or place or allow to be parked or placed anything in or protruding onto the right-of-way with the exception of approved mailboxes as described in division 4 of this article. Examples of violations include, but are not limited to, the following: brick enclosed or non-collapsible mail boxes, garbage cans, agricultural equipment, irrigation equipment, vehicles, trailers, solid waste, structures, fences, hardscaping (grass is acceptable), or other personal property. Hardscape is defined as decorative or ornamental materials or objects including but not limited to, large rocks, boulders, timbers, trees, fencing, sculptures, terracing, signs, light poles or stanchions, vehicles, tractors, wagons, implements or other similar display items.
(a)
Every owner or operator of any motor vehicle, trailer or equipment that comes to rest upon or within a public right-of-way because of a mechanical failure shall remove or cause to be removed the personal property from the public right-of-way without unnecessary delay. It shall be registered with the Dawson County Sheriff's Office and shall not exceed five days.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.02)
Sec. 42-123. - [Road damage.]
Any person, firm, business or corporation shall be prohibited from obstructing, injuring or damaging a Dawson County public road, right-of-way, street or highway by moving or causing to be moved, pushed or plowed any snow, dirt, gravel or similar material or debris from private property onto or across any Dawson County maintained public road, street or highway right-of-way.
(a)
No person shall deposit any trash, garbage, debris, brush, soil, salt, calcium chloride or other foreign matter onto any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way other than county personnel for maintenance purposes. No person shall cause water to be discharged onto any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way if the discharge contains sediment, trash, or other debris in an amount sufficient to cause deposit of such material onto the publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way or if the flow rate of the discharge exceeds the discharge rate allowed in the Dawson County Storm Water Ordinance within any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way.
(b)
No owner of any interest in real property shall permit to be discharged from such premises onto any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way water containing sediment, trash, or other debris in an amount sufficient to cause deposit of such material within the publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way.
(c)
No person shall alter any publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way drainage system in any manner causing water to be discharged across the traveled surface of the publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way nor shall a diversion of or the filling in of any drainage ditch, culvert or pipe parallel to or underneath a public road be created so as to restrain or redirect the flow of water. All driveway installations shall insure that runoff enters the roadway drainage system on the side of the publicly owned or maintained road or right-of-way abutting the installation. The creation or erection of any dam, berm, ditch or wall that restrains the natural flow of water and results in the redirecting of water onto the road surface or right-of-way of any public road whether by design or lack of maintenance shall also be prohibited. All drainage ditches, culverts or pipes installed within or adjacent to the public right-of-way shall be maintained and kept clear of debris by the property owner whose property the drainage ditch, culvert or pipe services. A permit shall be required for the instillation of any drainage ditch, culvert or pipe within the public rights-of-way in Dawson County. Permits shall be issued by the public works department after application and review.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.03)
Sec. 42-124. - [Right of removal.]
Any employee of the Dawson County Public Works Department, the Dawson County Marshal's Office and or any authorized law enforcement officer may remove or cause to be removed any agricultural equipment, irrigation equipment, vehicle, trailer, solid waste, structure, fence, hardscaping or other such personal property parked or placed within or upon a Dawson County public right-of-way. The provisions of this article shall not apply to public employees or agents during the course and scope of their duties, nor to employees or agents of any public utility during the course and scope of their duties.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.04)
Sec. 42-125. - [Notice.]
Notice shall be given to the person, firm, business or corporation responsible for the obstruction, injury or damage or posted at the place of residence within Dawson County. If not, it shall be posted on the obstruction, specifying the place and extent of the violation and requiring removal of the obstruction within 15 days of the notice being received. If the obstruction obstructs and prevents the use of the highway or public right-of-way for vehicles or is determined to cause an imminent danger to the health and safety of the public, then Dawson County shall immediately cause the obstruction to be removed at the expense of the owner or person or entity causing the obstruction.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.05)
Sec. 42-126. - [Exemptions.]
Garbage containers and additional refuse may be placed in the Dawson County right-of-way for pickup, but are not to be placed on the asphalt or traveled part of the roadway. These containers or refuse may only be placed along the public right-of-way on the day of garbage removal and must then be removed from the Dawson County right-of-way the same day the garbage has been removed.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 2.06)
Secs. 42-127—42-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MOVING HOUSES AND OTHER STRUCTURES ALONG COUNTY ROADWAYS

Sec. 42-131. - [Purpose.]
The purpose of this section is to ensure notice to Dawson County as of the movement of houses and other structures along public roadways maintained by the county and to ensure the reestablishment of the roadway, right-of-way, and any structure contained therein that may have been moved, removed or damaged as a result of the movement of a house or structure along the public roadway.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.01)
Sec. 42-132. - [Permit required.]
Any person, firm or corporation who moves a house or other structure that exceeds the width of one travel lane of any public roadway within Dawson County or requires the removal or relocation of power or other overhead utility lines or structures situated above any pubic roadway or right-of-way shall obtain a permit from the Dawson County Public Works Department at least 15 days before the move. The permit shall include the name and address and phone number of the owner of the home or structure, the name address and phone number of the mover of the house or structure, the date, time, and estimated duration of the move, the address of the original location of the home or structure, the location destination of the home or structure including the address and county. The owner or mover shall also provide evidence that an escort if applicable has been procured from the Dawson County Sheriff's Office or other law enforcement entity.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.02)
Sec. 42-133. - [Permit application.]
Any person, firm or corporation who engages in moving a house or other structure under the conditions established in section 42-132 shall provide with the completed permit application to the Dawson County Public Works Department the following information:
(a)
A map showing the route of the move and any alternate routes;
(b)
A description of the house or structure being moved including the total height, width, and length of the house or structure including the vehicle used to move the house or structure;
(c)
A detailed description of any and all modifications that may take place to the public roadway or right-of-way including, but not limited to, grading of rights-of-way, the filling of ditches, the relocation of utility poles or the dismantling of any structure contained therein or associated with the road or right-of-way excluding standard traffic signs and mail boxes along the route in question; and
(d)
A bond or letter of credit in the amount of $10,000.00 made payable to Dawson County for any damage to public roadways, rights-of-way, and any structure contained therein or associated with the road or right-of-way not repaired by the owner or mover after notice is given by the public works department to the owner/mover as to the unsatisfactory condition of the public roadway, rights-of-way or any structure contained therein.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.03)
Sec. 42-134. - [Expiration.]
Moving permits shall expire ten days after issuance. Unless otherwise shown on the permit or further limited by specific rules hereinafter provided, the applicant shall insure that the movement of a permitted vehicle or load will take place only on Monday through Saturday from 30 minutes after sunrise until 30 minutes before sunset Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time, whichever is in effect for the period of the year during which the movement occurs. Permitted loads for weight up to 125,000 pounds without any dimensions exceeding legal limit may have continuous movement, except that no permitted vehicle or load shall be moved during inclement weather such as foggy weather or during snow or icy conditions or during the following legal holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.04)
Sec. 42-135. - [Law enforcement escort.]
An escort by an authorized law enforcement agency shall be required if the structure width of the structure being moved exceeds the width of two travel lanes of the road the structure is traveling.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.05)
Sec. 42-136. - [Private escort.]
A private escort vehicle (an automobile or pickup truck) shall be required for all loads that exceed the width of one travel lane of the road the structure is traveling and shall be equipped with a revolving or flashing amber warning light located on top of the vehicle. The operator shall have obtained a permit from the appropriate state agency for the use of the light as required by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-8-92, 40-8-93 and 40-8-95. Escort vehicles and the vehicle transporting the permitted load shall also be equipped with two-way radios, in good working order, so that the driver shall have continuous radio contact with the driver of the permitted load and other escorts of the same load. The rear escort vehicle driver shall advise the driver of the load and the front escort, when applicable, as to the traffic conditions behind the movement. When four or more vehicles accumulate, the escort vehicles and permitted load shall pull over and allow the traffic to pass. The driver of the front and rear escort vehicles shall maintain sufficient separation between the vehicles and the permitted load so as to provide adequate warning of the presence of the oversized load. As a condition of the issuance of a permit, Dawson County, when it deems necessary in the interest of public safety, may require the use of a front or rear escort or both.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.06)
Sec. 42-137. - [Oversized load signage.]
On all loads over legal width or height or length, a sign containing the wording "OVERSIZED LOAD" shall be mounted on the front of the escort vehicle (for a front escort) and to the rear of the escort vehicle (for a rear escort). The letters shall be black on an orange or yellow backboard and shall be at least eight inches high and four inches wide. The backboard shall be at least one foot high and six feet wide.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.07)
Sec. 42-138. - [Liability.]
Immediately after any house or structure has been moved along a public roadway any and all traffic signs or mail boxes removed shall be replaced in the original location. If any traffic sign or mail box removed along the path of a moving house or structure is damaged and cannot be replaced, then the mover of the house or structure shall notify the sheriff's office or other escort immediately and the Dawson County Public Works Department within one business day. All other modifications caused by the owner or mover to the public roadway, the right-of-way, or any other structure contained therein or associated with the public road or right-of-way shall be returned to the preexisting condition within seven days of the completion of the move within Dawson County along the public roadway.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.08)
Sec. 42-139. - [Inspection.]
The Dawson County Public Works Department shall inspect the route taken by the moved house or structure within ten days of the completion of the move inside Dawson County to determine if satisfactory repairs have been made. If repairs have not been made, then the public works department shall notify the applicant in writing of any deficiencies noted. The public works department shall grant, after written notice is given, the applicant ten calendar days to correct the deficiencies noted. The public works department may, if deficiencies have not been addressed, call the bond or letter of credit in order to effect the repair of the public roadway, right-of-way or any structure contained therein or associated with the public road or right-of-way.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.09)
Sec. 42-140. - Federal and state laws and regulations.
All persons, firms, and corporations who are regulated by this article shall comply with the applicable laws and regulations of the United States and the State of Georgia, including, but not limited to, those of the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission, the department of motor vehicle safety, and O.C.G.A. Title 32.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 3.10)
Secs. 42-141—42-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MAILBOX AND SUPPORT STRUCTURE REGULATIONS

Sec. 42-151. - [Purpose.]
The purpose of this section is to ensure a safe traveling environment for the motoring public on the roadways in Dawson County. No mailbox or newspaper delivery box (hereafter referred to as "mailbox") and its support structure that interferes with the safety of the traveling public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the roadway shall be allowed to exist in a Dawson County public right-of-way.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 4.01)
Sec. 42-152. - [Mailbox installation.]
A mailbox installation that conforms to the following criteria shall be considered acceptable, unless the installation interferes with the safety of the traveling public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the Dawson County roadway. A mailbox installation that does not conform to the provisions of this article is considered an unauthorized encroachment.
(a)
No mailbox shall be permitted if access is obtained from the lanes of a roadway with more than two lanes of travel or if access is otherwise prohibited by law or regulation. Mailboxes
shall be located on the right hand side of the roadway in the direction of the delivery route. The bottom of the box shall be set at an elevation established by the U.S. Postal Service (between three and one-half and four feet above the roadway surface). On curbed roads, the roadside face of the mailbox shall be set back from the face of curb at a distance between 12 and 18 inches. On roadways without curbs or all-weather shoulders and that carry low-traffic volumes (residential subdivisions) operating at low speeds (25 miles-per-hour or less), the roadside face of a mailbox shall be offset four feet behind the edge of pavement. If a mailbox is located on a Dawson County roadway where posted speed limits exceed 30 miles-per-hour, then the roadside face of a mailbox shall be offset a minimum of six feet behind the edge of the pavement. If a mailbox is located at a driveway or lane entrance, it shall be placed on the far side of the driveway in the direction of the delivery route. If a mailbox is located at an intersecting road, it shall be located a minimum of 100 feet beyond the center of the intersecting road in the direction of the delivery route.
(b)
Mailboxes shall be made of light sheet metal or plastic construction conforming to the requirements of the U.S. Postal Service. Newspaper delivery boxes shall be made of light sheet metal or plastic construction of minimum dimensions suitable for holding a newspaper. Lightweight newspaper boxes may be mounted below and to one side of the mailbox support. A mailbox support structure shall consist of a single 4″ × 4″ square or four and one-half-inch diameter round wooden post, metal post with a structural strength no greater than a two-inch diameter standard strength steel pipe, injection molded plastic, vinyl or like material that will bend, sheer, fracture or otherwise give way at the ground when struck by a vehicle, and be embedded no more than 24 inches into the ground. A metal post shall not be fitted with a base anchor plate, but may have attached an anti-twist device that extends no more than ten inches below the ground surface. A mailbox support shall not be cemented in the ground. The post-to-box attachment should be of sufficient strength to prevent the box from separating from the post top if the installation is struck by a vehicle. If multiple (cluster) mailboxes are installed at a single delivery location, then the minimum spacing between the centers of support posts shall be three-fourths the height of the posts above the ground line. Mailboxes shall not be encased in a steel, rock, concrete or brick structures, nor be placed upon or attached to any other ornamental structures including pieces or parts of farm equipment, tractors, vehicles, wagons, trailers, implements, milk cans, buckets, drums, wheels or similar materials likely to result in vehicle damage, passenger injury or death if struck by a vehicle.
(c)
Any mailbox that had been established before the adoption of this article shall be deemed grandfathered unless a mailbox creates a safety hazard to the traveling public and shall then be considered an unauthorized encroachment and shall be removed by the responsible person, firm, business or corporation upon written notification by the Dawson County Public Works Department. At the discretion of the Dawson County Public Works Department, based on an assessment of the hazard to the public, the person, firm, business or corporation shall be granted not less than 24 hours or more than 15 days to remove an unacceptable mailbox. After the specified removal period has expired, the unacceptable mailbox shall be removed by the Dawson County Public Works Department at the expense of the responsible person, firm, business or corporation.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, §§ 4.02—4.05)
Secs. 42-153—42-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 42-161. - [Fines.]
Any person, firm, business or corporation violating any portion of this article for the first time or who fails to remove an unacceptable mailbox within the specified timeframe listed herein or who fails to abate any obstruction, injury, or damage within 15 days of the notice being received shall be guilty of an misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to $1,000.00. Adjudication of this article shall be through the Magistrate Court of Dawson County. If any private company or person at the request of Dawson County, the Dawson County Sheriff's Office, Dawson County Marshal's Office, Dawson County Public Works Department, or other law enforcement is required to mitigate any obstruction, repair any roadway, or otherwise, then that person or entity shall be responsible for all costs incurred in addition to any fine assessed by the court.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 5.01)
Sec. 42-162. - [Corrective action.]
It shall be an affirmative defense to any infraction that the property owner, or person or entity violating this article completed the required corrective action within 15 days following notice of the need to take corrective action by Dawson County. No infraction shall be initiated against a property owner, or person or entity until 15 days following notice of the need to take corrective action from Dawson County. Dawson County, at its option, may make demand for a property owner or person or entity to comply with the provisions of this article or may take necessary action to correct or remove the violation, with the costs of such action(s) being charged against the property owner or person or entity violating this article being due and owing to Dawson County upon completion of corrective action or removal work by Dawson County.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § 5.02)
Sec. 42-163. - Enforcement.
This article may be enforced by any authorized law enforcement officer of Dawson County including, but not limited to, the Dawson County Marshal's Office and the Dawson County Sheriff's Office.
(Ord. of 7-21-2011, § VI)
Secs. 42-164—42-183. - Reserved.
