ARTICLE VII. - HANDICAP PARKING SPACES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— At the discretion of the editor, Arts. 2 and 4 of Ord. of 6-16-2011 have been codified as herein set out in §§ 42-213—42-218. Said provisions did not expressly amend the Code.

Sec. 42-213. - Definitions.
Handicap parking space means any area on public or private property that has been designated as reserved for use by persons with disabilities as follows:
(1)
By blue metal reflective sign that is at least 12 inches in width and 18 inches in length and erected at a height of seven feet from the bottom of the sign to the ground surface and in such manner that the sign will not be obscured by a vehicle parked in the space and bearing the following words: "Permit Parking Only," "Tow-Away Zone," and the international symbol for accessibility. The warnings required in this subparagraph shall be centered on the sign, printed in white, and shall occupy not less than 75 percent of the surface area of the sign. The sign required by this subparagraph shall be the official authorized sign for parking place designations for persons with disabilities in the State of Georgia and within Dawson County. In addition, parking spaces that are required by O.C.G.A. § 30-3-6 shall be designated as "For Disabled Persons With Ambulatory Assistive Devices Only"; or
(2)
If the parking place is on private property, was constructed solely from concrete, was used by the public or finished prior to July 1, 1987, and is designated by having imprinted and maintained in reflective paint upon each such place the words "Tow-Away Zone" or "Parking Only for Persons with Disabilities" or the universal symbol of accessibility, that designation shall be deemed to meet the requirements of subsection (1) of this section until such time as the concrete lot is renovated, repaired, or remodeled, at which time a sign shall be erected that shall comply with the requirements of subsection (1) of this section.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 2, § 1)
Sec. 42-214. - Handicapped parking laws.
The provisions of O.C.G.A §§ 40-6-220—40-6-228 entitled "Uniform Rules of the Road—Handicapped Parking Laws" are hereby incorporated herein by reference as and for the handicapped parking laws of Dawson County as if recited in this section.
The sign designations for handicapped parking places shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 40-6-221(2).
Notwithstanding the failure of the property owner to properly mark and sign handicap parking places in accordance with law, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any motor vehicle in any area on public or private property that has been clearly designated and reserved for use by handicapped persons in vehicles displaying a valid handicapped parking permit.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 2, § 2)
Sec. 42-215. - Offenses and penalties.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle in a parking place for persons with disabilities unless there is displayed on the driver's side of the dashboard or hung from the rearview mirror of the parked vehicle a valid unexpired parking permit for persons with disabilities or unless there is attached to the vehicle a specially designated license plate for disabled veterans or other disabled persons authorized under O.C.G.A. § 40-2-74 or 40-2-74.1 and unless such person is the person to whom such permit or license plate was issued; the person to whom such permit or license plate was issued is a passenger in the vehicle; or such vehicle is being used for the transportation of disabled passengers on behalf of the institution to which such permit was issued.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle in a parking place for persons with disabilities except for the purpose of allowing a disabled person to enter or get out of such vehicle while in such parking place. However, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent an ambulance or emergency vehicle from stopping in a parking place for persons with disabilities.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle in a parking place for the nonambulatory as provided by a business pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-225 except for the purpose of allowing a nonambulatory permanently disabled person to enter or get out of such vehicle while in such parking place. However, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent an ambulance or emergency vehicle from stopping in a parking place for the nonambulatory.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle in any area directly connecting with a parking place for persons with disabilities which area is clearly designed and designated for access to such parking place for persons with disabilities.
(e)
No person shall park a vehicle so as to block any entrance or exit ramp used by persons with disabilities on public or private property.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 2, § 3)
Sec. 42-216. - Violations; exception for authorized emergency vehicles.
Enforcement of this article shall be through the Magistrate Court of Dawson County by the issuance of a citation that shall be left with the vehicle or delivered to the person in possession thereof.
(1)
Fine amount. The violation of improperly parking in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities shall be punished by a $100.00 fine for each violation.
(2)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (1) of this section, any vehicle that is illegally parked in a parking place for persons with disabilities that is marked by a sign bearing the words "Tow-Away Zone" as described in section 42-213 of this article on public or private property may be towed away or caused to be towed away by a proper law enforcement agency or the official security agency of the property at the expense of the owner of the vehicle or, if the vehicle is leased or rented, at the expense of the person responsible for payment on the lease or rental agreement.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 2, § 4)
Sec. 42-217. - Enforceability of properly placed signs.
The disregard or disobedience of the instruction of any sign placed in accordance with the provisions of this article by the driver of a vehicle shall be deemed prima facie evidence of a violation of law without requiring proof by whom and by what authority such sign has been erected.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 2, § 5)
Sec. 42-218. - Repealer.
All resolutions or ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with the terms of this article are hereby repealed.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011, Art. 4)
Secs. 42-219—42-230. - Reserved.
