ARTICLE IX. - AGRIBUSINESS SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE BY THE DRINK

Sec. 6-90. - Type of agribusiness establishment where permitted.
(a)
Description. An agribusiness alcohol sales license allows an agribusiness to sell malt beverages and wine for consumption by the drink on the premises. A facility with such a license does not need to obtain a separate consumption on the premises license.
(b)
Definition. For purposes of this article, an "agribusiness" that may qualify for an agribusiness alcohol license is any holder of a Dawson County Business License that:
(1)
Is in an area zoned within the R-A zoning class; and
(2)
Is a venue that is held out to the public for social, celebratory or entertainment purposes; and
a.
May be rented for a fee for such social, celebratory, or entertainment purposes; or
b.
Ordinarily engages in agricultural activity and sells agricultural products during such social, celebratory, or entertainment activity.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-91. - Restrictions on sale of alcohol.
(a)
Except as expressly stated in this article, agribusiness licensees shall be subject to all of the general restrictions that apply to holders of licenses for sales by the drink for consumption on the premises of the alcohol type (malt beverages, wine, distilled spirits) that is proposed to be sold, other than the minimum qualifications for applying for such licenses.
(b)
Agribusiness licensees shall be exempt from any requirement to derive at least 50 percent of the establishment's total annual gross sales from food.
(c)
All buildings are subject to building and fire department inspections and requirements. Additional site plans or a designated areas map may be required by either the county planning department or fire department.
(d)
"Brown bag" events are allowed in accordance with section 6-112.
(e)
All caterers must hold a Dawson County Caterers License and Event Catering Permit as defined in this chapter.
(f)
Poured alcoholic beverages shall be transported from point of dispensing to the consumer by permitted employees only. Permitted employees are those who have applied for and received an employee pouring license authorizing such employees to take orders and transport alcoholic beverages to customers.
(g)
Any event outside of the normal business location defined on business license for that location must obtain separate special event permit.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-92. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Beer and/or wine shall not be sold or distributed for consumption on the premises except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight Monday through Thursday; Friday 10:00 a.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Saturday; Saturday 10:00 a.m. through 1:00 a.m. on Sunday; and Sunday 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight.
(b)
No beer and/or wine shall be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the governing authority.
(Ord. of 5-6-2021(1))
Sec. 6-93. - Reserved.
