PART I - LOCAL ACTS AND LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 73), page 3689, part 2. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. In addition, the title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 2-1. - Created; status as governing authority.
There is created the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County to be elected and organized as provided for in this Act. The board of commissioners shall be the successor to the Office of Commissioner of Dawson County and shall continue to have the obligations and liabilities of the Commissioner of Dawson County as existed immediately prior to January 1, 1997. The board of commissioners shall constitute the governing authority of Dawson County and shall exercise the powers, duties, and responsibilities vested in and upon said officers by the provisions of this Act. The term "board," whenever used in this Act, shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County, including the chairperson and all members.
Sec. 2-2. - Composition.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Dawson County shall consist of a chairperson and four district commissioners. The four district commissioners shall be residents of their respective commissioner districts described in subsection (b) of this section, but shall be elected by the electors of the entire county as provided in section 2-3 of this Act. The chairperson shall be elected at large as provided in section 2-3 of this Act.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, other than the chairperson, Dawson County is divided into four commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The four commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: dawccsb3 Plan Type: Local User: Staff Administrator: Dawson.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms "tract" and "block group" (BG) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a tract description which are underneath a BG heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a block group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dawson County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Dawson County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(c.1)
Commissioner districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as commissioner districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 533), page 4330, § 1)
Sec. 2-3. - Persons eligible to hold office.
(a)
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code Section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.] or any other general law.
(b)
In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must be 21 years of age or older, must have resided in that district for at least 12 months prior to election thereto, and must receive a majority of the votes cast for that office by the electors of the entire county. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall thereupon become vacant.
(c)
The chairperson of the board must be 25 years of age or older, must have resided in Dawson County for at least 12 months prior to election to such office, may reside anywhere within Dawson County, and must receive a majority of the votes cast for such office by the electors of the entire county. The chairperson must continue to reside within Dawson County during that person's term of office or that office shall thereupon become vacant.
Sec. 2-4. - Terms of office and manner of election.
(a)
The first chairperson and members of the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County shall be elected at the statewide general election which shall be conducted on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November 1996. Those members of the board elected thereto from commissioner districts 1 and 3 in 1996 shall take office on the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 1998, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. The chairperson and those members of the board elected thereto from commissioner districts 2 and 4 in 1996 shall take office on the first day of January immediately following that election and shall serve for initial terms of office which expire December 31, 2000, and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. Those and all future successors to the chairperson and members of the board whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the statewide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office on the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of four years. Members of the board shall serve for the terms of office specified therefor in this subsection and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
The chairperson and all members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
The Commissioner of Dawson County who is in office on January 1, 1996, or any person filling a vacancy in such office, shall serve out the remainder of that person's term of office until the regular expiration of the term of office on December 31, 1996.
Sec. 2-5. - Filling of vacancies.
(a)
In the event of a vacancy occurring on or after January 1, 1997, in the membership of the board, whether the vacancy is in the office of chairperson or any other member, for any reason other than expiration of term, that vacancy shall be filled as provided in this section.
(b)
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board of commissioners when at least 180 days remain in the unexpired term of office, the election [of] Superintendent of Dawson County, within 15 days after the vacancy occurs, shall issue the call for a special election to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. Such special election shall be called and conducted as provided in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.] as now or hereafter amended. Any person elected in a special election to fill such a vacancy shall take office immediately upon certification of the results of such special election and qualification. If such vacancy is in the office of chairperson of the board of commissioners, the vice chairperson of the board shall exercise the powers and duties of the chairperson for the period beginning on the date the vacancy occurs and ending on the date the successor chairperson takes office for the unexpired term following the special election provided for in this subsection.
(c)
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board of commissioners when less than 180 days remain in the unexpired term of office, the remaining members of the board of commissioners shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. Any person appointed by the board to fill a vacancy as provided in this subsection shall possess the residency and other qualifications required for the office and shall take office immediately upon appointment and qualification. If such vacancy is in the office of chairperson of the board of commissioners, the vice chairperson of the board shall exercise the powers and duties of the chairperson for the period beginning on the date the vacancy occurs and ending on the date the successor chairperson takes office for the unexpired term following his appointment as provided for in this subsection.
(d)
A vice chairperson serving as chairperson shall not be authorized to vote as a member of the board of commissioners during such service unless the vice chairperson's vote would affect the outcome of any vote or issue before the board.
Sec. 2-6. - Oath and bond.
Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, the chairperson and commissioners shall subscribe an oath before the judge of the probate court of said county for the true and faithful performance of their duties and that they are not the holders of any public funds unaccounted for. In addition, the chairperson and each commissioner shall further give a satisfactory surety bond to the judge of the probate court of the county and payable to the judge of the probate court or that judge's successor in office and filed in the office of the judge of the probate court, in the sum of $10,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office. The costs of said bonds shall be paid out of the county treasury.
Sec. 2-7. - Compensation.
(a)
Commissioners, other than the chairperson, shall be paid a salary in accordance with the Summary of Compensation Recommendations attached to the Ordinance adopted on June 4, 2015 and shown below in subsection (d). Such compensation shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Dawson County.
(b)
The chairperson shall serve in such capacity on a part-time basis and shall be paid a salary in accordance with the Summary of Compensation Recommendations attached to the Ordinance adopted on June 4, 2015 and shown below in subsection (d). Such compensation shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of Dawson County.
(c)
The chairperson and the commissioners may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out their duties. Expenses may be reimbursed only after the submission of receipts for said expenses to the county clerk and the approval by majority vote of the board of commissioners at a regularly scheduled meeting. The chairperson and commissioners shall be entitled to compensation for serving on any other boards or authorities for which their membership is provided by law.
(d)
The compensation referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this section is as follows:
EXPAND
Chairman Base Salary (2010 Census) Adjusted plus Local Supplement Adjustment $12,000.00
Incentive Component (completion of initial commissioner training Association of County Commissioners of Georgia currently referenced as "core curriculum") ($100.00 per month) $1,200.00
Local Incentive Component (completion of at least one of the Associationof County Commissioners of Georgia training tracks beyond core trainingcurrently referenced as "Lifelong Learning Academy Specialty Certification") ($100.00 per month) $1,200.00
Called Meeting Fee- Maximum 72 ($100.00 per meeting) (shall not include regular meeting or regularly scheduled work session) $7,200.00
Commissioners—all Districts Base Salary (2010 Census) Adjusted plus Local Supplement Adjustment $9,600.00
Incentive Component (completion initial commissioner training Association of County Commissioners of Georgia) ($100.00 per month) $1,200.00
Local Incentive Component (completion of at least one of the Associationof County Commissioners of Georgia training tracks beyond core trainingcurrently referenced as "Lifelong Learning Academy Specialty Certification")($100.00 per month) $ 1,200.00
Called Meeting Fee-Maximum 72 ($100.00 per meeting) (shall not include regular meeting or regularly scheduled work session) $7,200.00
  Cost of Living Adjustments to the Base Salary and the Local Incentive Supplements shall apply as provided in the Georgia Code. Cost of Living Adjustment shall apply to the incentive payments, but shall not apply to the called meeting fees.
The commission shall review its compensation levels every four years approximately 18 months before the general election in which the commission chair is elected. Comparison of compensation levels with other counties of like characteristics remains the best measure of fair market value. The data is readily available and a citizen committee could be appointed to recommend adjustments or changes to the county's compensation plan. In the intervening years, the Georgia legislature will apply cost of living adjustments to the base salary and the same rates of adjustment should apply to the local supplement base. The incentive payments should be subjected to COLAs as well. COLAs for meeting fees should not be subjected to COLAs.
(Ord. of 2-16-2006, §§ I, II; Ord. of 6-4-2015(1), § I(Exh. A))
Editor's note— Per instructions of the County Attorney dated March 2, 2011, the salary recommendations attached to the resolution adopted on February 16, 2006, have been included in the above section. The editors have reworded subsections (a) and (b) accordingly.
Sec. 2-8. - Vice chairperson.
At the first regular meeting of each year, the board of commissioners shall elect from its members a vice chairperson. In the event of death, disqualification, or resignation of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall perform the duties and exercise the authority of the chairperson until a new chairperson is chosen as provided in this Act. The vice chairperson shall preside at meetings of the board of commissioners in the absence of the chairperson and shall serve for the calendar year in which elected. In the event of a vacancy in the office of vice chairperson, the board of commissioners shall elect a new vice chairperson to serve for the remainder of the calendar year.
Sec. 2-9. - Meetings.
The board of commissioners shall hold two regular meetings each month at the county seat, which meetings shall be open to the public. The time, date, and place of the meetings shall be determined by the board in the first meeting of the year. Any resolution passed by the board regarding the date, time, and place of its monthly meetings shall be published in the official county organ once a week for two weeks during a period of 30 days immediately following the passage of the resolution. The board of commissioners may hold such additional meetings as shall be necessary when called by the chairperson or any three commissioners, provided all members of the board of commissioners shall have been notified at least three days in advance of such special meeting which is open to the public. Any three commissioners or the chairperson and any two commissioners shall constitute a quorum. No official action shall be taken except upon the affirmative vote of at least three members of the board of commissioners and except upon compliance with Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.], relating to open meetings. The chairperson shall be entitled to vote on a question only if the chairperson's vote would affect the outcome of any vote or issue before the board. All regular and called meetings shall be conducted according to "Robert's Rules of Order."
Sec. 2-10. - Duties of chairperson.
The chairperson shall preside over the meetings of the board of commissioners. The duties of the chairperson shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Calling meetings of the board as provided in section 2-9;
(2)
Presiding at meetings of the board;
(3)
Representing the county government at ceremonial functions;
(4)
Being empowered to submit motions to the board of commissioners for action;
(5)
Appointing members and chairpersons to all committees of the board with the approval of the commission; and
(6)
Performing such other duties as shall be delegated to the chairperson by the board of commissioners or as provided by law or ordinance.
Sec. 2-11. - Legislation; powers vested in board.
The board of commissioners shall have the power and authority to fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, policies, rules, and regulations governing all matters reserved to its exclusive jurisdiction. Such policies, rules, and regulations, when so adopted with proper entry thereof made on the minutes of the board of commissioners, shall be conclusive and binding. The board of commissioners shall exercise only those administrative powers which are necessarily and properly incident to its functions as a policymaking or rulemaking body or which are necessary to compel enforcement of its adopted resolutions. The following powers are vested in the board of commissioners and reserved to its exclusive jurisdiction:
(1)
To levy taxes;
(2)
To make appropriations;
(3)
To fix rates and charges for services provided by the county;
(4)
To authorize the incurring of indebtedness;
(5)
To order work done where the cost is to be assessed against benefited property and to fix the basis for such assessment;
(6)
To authorize and provide for the execution of contracts;
(7)
To establish, alter, open, close, build, repair, or abolish public roads, bridges, and ferries, according to law; provided, however, that the chairperson shall have the authority to accept subdivision plats when the requirements, established by the board of commissioners, for subdivisions have been met;
(8)
To establish, abolish, or change election precincts and militia districts according to law;
(9)
To accept, for the county, the provisions of any optional statute where the statute permits its acceptance by the governing authority of the county;
(10)
To exercise all powers, duty, and authority formerly imposed upon or vested in the Commissioner of Dawson County in respect to zoning and planning;
(11)
To create and change the boundaries of special taxing districts authorized by law;
(12)
To fix the bonds of county officers where [the] same are not fixed by statute;
(13)
To enact any ordinances or other legislation which the county may be given authority to enact;
(14)
To determine the priority of capital improvements;
(15)
To call elections for the voting of bonds;
(16)
To exercise all of the power and authority formerly vested by law in the Commissioner of Dawson County together with the power and authority which may be delegated by law to the governing authority of the county, by whatever name designated;
(17)
To appoint retained legal counsel and an independent county auditor and provide for their compensation; and
(18)
To require all county officers to report on the general or specific conduct of the financial affairs of their respective offices.
Sec. 2-12. - Purchases.
A.
Purchases equal to or greater than $25,000.00. All purchases by Dawson County equal to or greater than $25,000.00 shall be advertised for two weeks in the county legal organ and shall be subject to sealed bid requirements. Any such advertisement shall indicate the nature of the proposed expenditure and shall indicate where and when sealed bids for such purchase or expenditure shall be accepted.
B.
Purchases and expenditures less than $25,000.00. All purchases and expenditures less than $25,000.00 shall be in accord with a purchasing policy approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-2-2007, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note— The ordinance adopted on August 2, 2007, § 2 repealed § 2-12 of 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 73), page 3689, part 2. Per instructions of the County Attorney dated March 2, 2011, § 1 of the August 2, 2007 ordinance has been included in § 2-12. See also Code § 2-105, implementing the last sentence of the language in § 1 of the August 2, 2002 ordinance.
Sec. 2-13. - Internal organization of county government; departments.
The internal organization of the county government shall be established and altered by the board of commissioners. Existing departments may be abolished and their functions transferred to other departments, additional departments may be created, and any two or more departments may be consolidated.
Sec. 2-14. - Clerk.
The board of commissioners shall appoint a clerk, who shall keep a proper and accurate book of minutes. The book of minutes of the board of commissioners shall contain all the acts, orders, and proceedings of the board of commissioners in chronological order. The minutes book of the board of commissioners shall be open to the public for inspection at all times during regular office hours; and certified copies of any entries in the minutes book shall be furnished by the clerk to any person requesting same upon payment of a reasonable fee, to be paid into the county treasury as are other funds, to be assessed by the board of commissioners in an amount sufficient to defray the cost of preparing same.
Sec. 2-15. - County manager.
The office of county manager is created. The county manager shall be appointed by the board of commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners. Any person appointed as county manager shall possess such qualifications as determined by the board of commissioners and shall receive such compensation, expenses, and benefits as fixed by the board. In conformity with policies and procedures established by the board of commissioners, it shall be the duty of the county manager to administer the affairs and day-to-day business of the county, to perform duties of an administrative nature, and to exercise such powers and responsibilities which may be determined by the board and which are not assigned to another person, office, or entity by law or ordinance.
Sec. 2-16. - Annual budget; required, contents.
The chairperson shall submit annually to the board of commissioners a proposed budget governing expenditures of all county funds, including capital outlay and public works projects for the following fiscal year. The board of commissioners shall thereafter hold a public hearing on the budget, giving notice thereof at least ten days in advance by publication of such notice and of the proposed budget in the official organ of Dawson County and by posting same at the courthouse door. The budget shall then be reviewed and adopted or amended by the board of commissioners prior to the beginning of the new fiscal year to which it applies, which budget, when so adopted or amended by the board of commissioners, shall constitute the board's appropriation of all funds for such year. The budget so adopted may be revised during the year only by formal action of the board of commissioners in a regular meeting, and no increase shall be made therein without provision also being made for financing same. The proposed budget submitted by the chairperson shall be accompanied by a report containing information and data relating to the financial affairs of the county pertinent to arriving at and establishing the annual budget. A copy of the budget and of each revision or amendment to same shall be transmitted by the chairperson to the grand jury of the Superior Court of Dawson County within ten days from the time such budget or amendment thereof is adopted by the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners may from time to time, upon a majority vote thereof, change the ending and beginning date of the fiscal year for the county or may operate on a calendar basis; provided, however, that in the event of such change, the budget shall be submitted at least two months prior to the beginning date of the next fiscal year or January 1, whichever shall apply, and shall be adopted at least one month prior to said beginning date. The procedures for budget preparation, submission to the governing authority, review by the governing authority, public review, notice, and hearings shall be as provided for in Chapter 81 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.].
Sec. 2-17. - Expenditures to be in accordance with budget.
No expenditures of county funds shall be made except in accordance with the county budget, or amendments thereto, adopted by the board of commissioners. The chairperson of the board of commissioners and the county manager shall enforce compliance with this provision by all departments of county government and to this end shall institute a system of allotments of all moneys appropriated and budgeted.
Sec. 2-18. - Annual audit.
The board of commissioners shall on or before the final day of the month following the end of each fiscal year employ a certified public accountant for the making of an annual continuous audit of county finances and financial records. The accountant so employed shall be paid out of county funds and shall perform a complete audit of the financial records of the county for the preceding year, pointing out any irregularities found to exist, and reporting the results of such audit to the board of commissioners. Each annual report submitted to the board of commissioners shall be made available for public inspection as are other records in such office. The board of commissioners shall cause to be published in the official organ of Dawson County and posted at the courthouse door a statement of the financial condition of the county as of December 31 and June 30 of each year. Said accountant shall transmit to the grand jury of the Superior Court of Dawson County a copy of each annual report furnished by said accountant to the board of commissioners.
Sec. 2-19. - Prior act repealed.
An Act creating the Office of Commissioner of Dawson County, approved February 5, 1952 (Ga. L. 1952, p. 2068 [1952 Ga. Laws, page 2068]), as amended, is repealed in its entirety.
ARTICLE II. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1003), page 4680. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. In addition, the title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Created; powers.
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)], there is created, effective September 1, 1998, the Dawson County Board of Elections and registration, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers and duties of the former Dawson County elections superintendent relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the Dawson County Board of Registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
Sec. 2. - Selection of members.
(a)
The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Dawson County and shall be selected in the following manner:
(1)
Two members of the board shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for president at the last election preceding such appointment received the largest number of votes in the county. Two members of the board shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate for president at such election received the next largest number of votes in the county. Each appointment shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committee voting at a regularly scheduled meeting of such executive committees or a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. In the event such appointments are not ratified by a majority of the members of such executive committees at least 60 days preceding the date on which such members are to take office, then the members of the respective executive committees may appoint such members by a two-thirds' majority of the membership of such executive committees at a regularly scheduled meeting or at a meeting duly called and held for such purpose. In the event the members of said executive committees fail to appoint such members at least 30 days preceding the date on which such members are to take office, such members shall be appointed by the commissioners; and
(2)
The fifth member of the board shall be the person who is serving as chief registrar of the county pursuant to Code section 2 on the date this Act first becomes effective in 1998 and shall be so certified as the fifth member by the commissioners. Successors to such member shall be appointed by the commissioners. The fifth member shall be the chairperson of the board.
(b)
The initial terms of office of the first members of the board shall expire December 31, 2002, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
Sec. 3. - Terms of members; removal.
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in subsection (b) of section 2 of this Act;
(2)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed such member and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, by the commissioners.
Sec. 4. - Notice of appointments.
(a)
The appointment of each member shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County no later than 30 days preceding the date on which such member is to take office, stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The Clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(b)
The Clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County shall record each such certification on the minutes of that superior court and shall certify the name of each member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for county registrars.
Sec. 5. - Filling of vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member, before the expiration of a term by reason of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under section 2 of this Act to make the appointment to the office upon expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner set forth in section 2 of this Act. If the vacancy in office under subsection (a) of section 2 of this Act is not filled within 60 days after it occurs, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the expired term by the commissioners.
Sec. 6. - Initial members and oath of office.
(a)
The first members of the board under this Act shall be appointed as provided in this Act to take office on September 1, 1998. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County.
(b)
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for county registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 7. - Powers to conduct elections and register voters.
(a)
The Dawson County Board of Elections and Registration shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The board is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40] and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
Sec. 8. - Elected officials ineligible to serve on board.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
Sec. 9. - County executive rules relative to primaries.
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee under the provisions of subsection (c) of Code section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-111(c)], with regard to the conduct of primaries, shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
Sec. 10. - Joint primaries, etc., not required; contracts with municipalities.
(a)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(b)
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipal corporation located within Dawson County for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within that municipal corporation.
Sec. 11. - Preparation of instructional material relative to elections.
With the approval of the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors of the county adequately with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
Sec. 12. - Organization of board.
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, may elect from among its membership a vice chairperson, shall determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such actions as are appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with general law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority vote of the members of the board.
Sec. 13. - Meetings.
(a)
The board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold regular monthly meetings at the principal office of the Dawson County Board of Elections and Registration or at the place of meeting of the commissioners. Any specially called meetings held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after notification of the time and place of the holding of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the person designated by the commissioners to provide public information. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be open to the public.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written record shall be made available for the public to review.
(2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 603), page 3874, § 1)
Sec. 14. - Executive officer of board; compensation of members.
(a)
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall be the chief executive officer of the board and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and the duly adopted resolutions of the board.
(b)
Compensation for the members of the board shall be fixed by the commissioners, but the first chairperson shall receive as a minimum the same annual compensation as was received by the chief registrar of the county on January 1, 1998, and such minimum may be increased by the commissioners to reflect the additional duties the chairperson will perform under this Act, and the other members of the board shall receive as a minimum for each day of service on the business of the board the same per diem as provided for registrars, other than the chief registrar, under Code Section 2-2-212 [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-212].
(c)
All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of Dawson County.
Sec. 15. - Employees.
The commissioners shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide the board with such proper and suitable administrative offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the commissioners shall deem appropriate. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the commissioners under the personnel system wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the commissioners to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this Act.
Sec. 16. - Poll workers.
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections. Such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided by the county executive committees of any political party whose [of which their] nominee for President of the United States received at least ten percent of the vote in Dawson County during the most recent general election for that office. It shall be the responsibility of any such political party to provide said list to the commissioners in a timely fashion and to supplement said list upon a reasonable request to do so.
Sec. 17. - Definitions.
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meaning as set forth in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act, and the term "commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Dawson County and "county" means "Dawson County."
Sec. 18. - Prior election official relieved of functions; transfer of documents and equipment to board.
Effective on the date the board can first take official action under section 6 of this Act, the judge of the probate court and the Board of Registrars of Dawson County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections and registration succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon the chairperson's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
Sec. 19. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 20. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
ARTICLE III. - INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AUTHORITY (LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT)[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 238), page 1143, § 1, being an amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. V, § IX. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Section catchlines have been editorially supplied. In addition, the title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Industrial development authority.
Article V, Section IX of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph which shall read as follows:
"A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Dawson County to be known as the Dawson County Industrial Building Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Dawson County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "authority."
"B.
The authority shall consist of five members. The board of commissioners shall appoint the members of said authority. The term of the first five members shall be as follows: two shall be appointed for a term of one year; two shall be appointed for a term of two years; and one shall be appointed for a term of four years. The successors of the original authority and each successor thereafter shall serve terms of four years. Members shall be eligible for reappointment. In case of a vacancy for any reason, the commissioner shall appoint a person to serve out the remainder of such unexpired term. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
"C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Dawson County.
"D.
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
"(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
"(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
"(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
"(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
"(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Dawson County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Dawson County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
"(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
"(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any matter that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
"(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
"(9)
To do any and [all] acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
"E.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Dawson County.
"F.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority.
"G.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing [a] rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761 [1937 Ga. Laws, page 761]) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8 [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Dawson County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce thereof against any property of Dawson County.
"H.
The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
"I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the authority shall have found and declared that:
"(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Dawson County.
"(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not, by virtue of establishing operations in said county, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
"J.
No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
"K.
Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Dawson County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
"L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Dawson County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
"M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
"N.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Dawson County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits."
Editor's note— The above amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) art. V, § IX was continued by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 204), page 4117, § 1.
ARTICLE IV. - COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS ACT OF 2008[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2008 Ga. Laws (Act No. 587), page 3802. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform and the same style of expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. In addition, the title of the act and the enacting clause have been deleted. Other additions for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Dawson County Community Improvement Districts Act of 2008."
Sec. 2. - Purpose.
The purpose of this Act shall be to provide for the creation of one or more community improvement districts within unincorporated Dawson County, and such districts shall be created for the provision of such of the following governmental services and facilities as may be provided for in the resolution activating each district created pursuant to this Act, or as may be adopted by a caucus of electors as defined in this Act:
(1)
Street and road construction and maintenance, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights, and devices to control the flow of traffic on streets and roads;
(2)
Parks and recreational areas and facilities;
(3)
Storm water and sewage collection and disposal systems;
(4)
Development, storage, treatment, purification, and distribution of water;
(5)
Public transportation;
(6)
Terminal and dock facilities and parking facilities; and
(7)
Such other services and facilities as may be provided for by general law.
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Agricultural" means the growing of crops for sale or the raising of animals for sale or use, including the growing of field crops and fruit or nut trees, the raising of livestock or poultry, and the operation of dairies, horse boarding facilities, and riding stables.
(2)
"Board" means the governing body created for the governance of each community improvement district authorized by this Act.
(3)
"Caucus of electors" means for each district the meeting of electors as provided in this Act at which the elected board members of the district are elected or at which the governmental services and facilities to be provided by the district are determined. A quorum at such caucus shall consist of those electors present, and a majority of those present and voting shall be necessary to take action. No proxy votes may be cast. Notice of any such meeting shall be given to said electors and equity electors by publishing notice thereof in the legal organ of Dawson County at least once each week for four weeks prior to such meeting.
(4)
"Cost of the project" or "cost of any project" means and includes:
(A)
All costs of acquisition by purchase or otherwise, construction, assembly, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation incurred in connection with any project or any part of any project;
(B)
All costs of real property, fixtures, or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including, but not limited to, the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates; the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates; the cost of preparation of any application therefor; and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment including all transportation equipment and rolling stock, furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project;
(C)
All financing charges and loan fees and all interest on bonds, notes, or other obligations of a district which accrue or are paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and during such additional period as the board may reasonably determine to be necessary to place such project in operation;
(D)
All costs of engineering, surveying, architectural, and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, surveyors, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project;
(E)
All expenses for inspection of any project;
(F)
All fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement; all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees; and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuances of any bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project;
(G)
All expenses of or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project;
(H)
All costs of plans and specifications for any project;
(I)
All costs of title insurance and examinations of title with respect to any project;
(J)
Repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and any other expenses of such loans;
(K)
Administrative expenses of the board and such other expenses as may be necessary for or incidental to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and
(L)
The establishment of a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the board may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument or agreement pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district may be authorized.
Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the purposes outlined in this paragraph shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the district.
(5)
"District" means the geographical area designated as such by the resolution of the governing body consenting to the creation of the community improvement district or as thereafter modified by any subsequent resolution of the governing body within which the district is or is to be located, or a body corporate and politic being a community improvement district created and activated pursuant to this Act as the context requires or permits.
(6)
"Electors" means the owners of real property used nonresidentially within the district which is subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board, as they appear on the most recent ad valorem real property tax return records of Dawson County or one officer or director of a corporate elector, one trustee of a trust which is an elector, one partner of a partnership elector, or one designated representative of an elector whose designation is made in writing. An owner of property that is subject to taxes, fees, or assessments levied by the board shall have one vote for an election based on numerical majority. An owner of multiple parcels has one vote, not one vote per parcel, for an election based on numerical majority. Multiple owners of one parcel have one vote for an election based on numerical majority which must be cast by one of their number who is designated in writing.
(7)
"Equitably apportioned among the properties subject to such taxes, fees, and assessments according to the need for governmental services and facilities created by the degree of density of development of each such property," with reference to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board, means that the burden of the taxes, fees, and assessments shall be apportioned among the properties subject thereto based upon the values established in the most recent ad valorem tax reassessment of such properties certified by the chairperson of the Dawson County Board of Tax Assessors, or with respect to fees and assessments may be apportioned among the properties subject thereto in direct or approximate proportion to the receipt of services or benefits derived from the improvements or other activities for which the taxes, fees, or assessments are to be expended, or with respect to fees and assessments may be apportioned in any other manner or combination of manners deemed equitable by the board, including, but not limited to, the recognition of differential benefits which may reasonably be expected to accrue to new land development in contrast to lands and improvements already in existence at the time of creation of the community improvement district.
(8)
"Equity electors" means electors who cast votes equal to each $1,000.00 of value of all owned real property within the district which is then subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board. The value of real property shall be the assessed value. In the event the owner shall be a corporation, trust, partnership, multiple owners, or any other entity, one person shall be designated as elector and such designation shall be made in writing.
(9)
"Forestry" means the planting and growing of trees for sale in a program which includes reforestation of harvested trees, regular underbrush and undesirable growth clearing, fertilizing, pruning, thinning, cruising, and marking which indicate an active tree farming operation. Such term does not include the casual growing of trees on land otherwise idle or held for investment, even though some harvesting of trees may occur thereon.
(10)
"Project" means the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of land, interests in land, buildings, structures, facilities, or other improvements, including operation of facilities or other improvements, located or to be located within or otherwise providing service to the district and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, or other property of any nature whatsoever used on, in, or in connection with any such land, interest in land, building, structure, facility, or other improvement; the creation, provision, enhancement, or supplementing of public services such as fire, police, and other services, provided that same do not conflict with or duplicate existing public services; and all for the essential public purposes set forth in Section 2 of this Act.
(11)
"Property owner" or "owner of real property" means any entity or person shown as a taxpayer for one or more parcels of real estate on the most recent ad valorem tax records of Dawson County within the district. Ownership as shown by the most recent ad valorem real property tax records of Dawson County shall be prima-facie proof of ownership. Multiple owners of one parcel shall constitute one property owner and shall designate in writing one of their number to represent the whole.
(12)
"Property used nonresidentially" means property or any portion thereof used for neighborhood shopping, planned shopping center, general commercial, transient lodging facilities, tourist services, office or institutional, office services, light industry, heavy industry, central business district, parking, or other commercial or business use or vacant land zoned or approved for any of the aforementioned uses which do not include residential.
(13)
"Residential" means a specific work or improvement undertaken primarily to provide single-family or multifamily dwelling accommodations for persons and families and such community facilities as may be incidental or appurtenant thereto.
(14)
"Taxpayer" means an entity or person paying ad valorem taxes on real property, whether on one or more parcels of property within the district. Multiple owners of one parcel shall constitute one taxpayer and shall designate in writing one of their number to represent the whole.
Sec. 4. - Creation.
Pursuant to Article IX, Section VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, there is created one or more community improvement districts to be located in the unincorporated area of Dawson County, Georgia, each of which shall be activated upon compliance with the conditions set forth in this section. Each district shall be governed by a board constituted by this Act. The conditions for such activation shall be:
(1)
The adoption of a resolution consenting to the creation of each community improvement district by the governing authority of Dawson County; and
(2)
The written consent to the creation of the community improvement district by:
(A)
A majority of the owners of real property within the district which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board of the district; and
(B)
The owners of real property within the district which constitutes at least 75 percent by value of all real property within the district which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board. For this purpose, value shall be determined by the most recent approved county ad valorem tax digest.
The written consent provided for in this paragraph shall be submitted to the Tax Commissioner of Dawson County, who shall certify whether subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph have been satisfied with respect to each such proposed district. No district or board created under this Act shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this Act until the foregoing conditions are met. A copy of such resolutions shall be filed with the Secretary of State, who shall maintain a record of all districts activated under this Act, and with the Department of Community Affairs.
Sec. 5. - Administration, appointment, and election of board members.
(a)
Each district created pursuant to this Act shall be administered by a board composed of seven board members to be appointed and elected as provided in this section. Two board members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Dawson County. Two board members shall be elected by vote of the electors; and three members shall be elected by the vote of equity electors. The members representing the electors and equity electors shall be elected to serve in post positions 1 through 5, respectively. Each elected board member must receive a majority of the votes cast for the post for which he is a candidate. Votes for posts 1 and 2 shall be cast by electors and votes for posts 3, 4, and 5 shall be cast by equity electors. The initial term of office for the members representing posts 1 and 4 shall be one year. The initial term of office for the members representing posts 2 and 5 shall be two years, and the initial term of office of the members representing post 3 shall be three years. Thereafter, all terms of office for the elected board members shall be for three years. The appointed board members shall serve at the pleasure of the governing authority of Dawson County.
(b)
The initial board members to be elected as provided in subsection (a) of this section shall be elected in a caucus of electors which shall be held within 90 days after the adoption of the resolutions and obtaining the written consents herein provided at such time and place within the district as the governing authority of Dawson County shall designate after notice thereof has been given to said electors as provided in this Act. Thereafter, there shall be conducted biennially, not later than 60 days following the last day for filing ad valorem real property tax returns in Dawson County, a caucus of said electors at such time and place within the district as the board shall designate in such notice for the purpose of electing board members to those board member positions whose terms expire or are vacant. If a vacancy occurs in an elected position on the board, the board shall, within 60 days thereof, call a special election to fill the same to be held within 60 days of the call unless such vacancy occurs within 180 days of the next regularly scheduled election, in which case a special election may, but need not, be called.
(c)
Board members shall be subject to recall as any other elected public official by the electors defined by this Act.
(d)
Board members shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. They shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as vice chairperson. They shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, any of whom may, but need not, be a member of the board or an elector.
(e)
Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.] shall not apply to the election of district board members. The district board may adopt such bylaws not inconsistent with this Act to provide for any matter concerning such elections.
Sec. 6. - Taxes, fees, and assessments.
(a)
The board may levy taxes, fees, and assessments within the district only on real property used nonresidentially, specifically excluding all property exempt from ad valorem taxation under the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia; all property used for residential, agricultural, or forestry purposes; and all tangible personal property and intangible property. Any tax, fee, or assessment so levied shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the aggregate assessed value of all such real property. The taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board shall be equitably apportioned among the properties subject to such taxes, fees, and assessments according to the need for governmental services and facilities created by the degree of density of development of each such property. The proceeds of taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board shall be used only for the purpose of providing governmental services and facilities which are specially required by the degree of density of development within the district and not for the purpose of providing those governmental services and facilities provided to the county as a whole. Any tax, fee, or assessment so levied shall be collected by Dawson County in the same manner as taxes, fees, and assessments are levied by Dawson County. Delinquent taxes shall bear the same interest and penalties as Dawson County ad valorem taxes and may be enforced and collected in the same manner. The proceeds of taxes, fees, and assessments so levied, less a fee to cover the costs of collection of one percent of such proceeds, but not more than $25,000.00 in any one calendar year, shall be transmitted by Dawson County to the board and shall be expended by the board only for the purposes authorized by this Act.
(b)
The board shall levy the taxes, fees, and assessments in subsection (a) of this section subsequent to the report of the assessed taxable values for the current calendar year and notify Dawson County in writing so that the district levy may be included on Dawson County's regular ad valorem tax bills.
(c)
If, but for this provision, a parcel of real property is removed from a district or otherwise would become nontaxable, it shall continue to bear its tax millage then extant upon such event for bonded indebtedness of the district then outstanding until said bonded indebtedness then outstanding is paid or refunded.
(d)
Each property owner paying taxes, fees, or assessments levied by the board for any public facility as set forth in Section 2 of this Act may receive a credit equal to the present value of all such taxes, fees, and assessments toward any impact fee as may be levied by Dawson County against such property for system improvements which are in the same category as said public facility in accordance with Chapter 71 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-71-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Development Impact Fee Act." Application for such development impact fee credit may be granted by legislative action of the governing authority of Dawson County in its discretion.
Sec. 7. - Boundaries of the districts.
(a)
The boundaries of each district shall be as designated as such by the governing authority of Dawson County as set forth in the resolutions required in Section 4 of this Act, or as may thereafter be added as provided in this Act.
(b)
The boundaries of a district may be increased after the initial creation of a district pursuant to the following:
(1)
Written consent of a two-thirds' majority of the owners of real property within the area sought to be annexed and which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board of the district; and
(2)
Written consent of owners of real property within the area sought to be annexed which constitutes at least 75 percent by value of the property which will be subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board. For this purpose, value shall be determined by the most recent approved county ad valorem tax digest; and
(3)
The adoption of a resolution consenting to the annexation by the board of the district; and
(4)
The adoption of a resolution consenting to the annexation by the governing authority of Dawson County.
Sec. 8. - Debt.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, each district may incur debt without regard to the requirements of Article IX, Section V of the Constitution of Georgia, or any other provision of law prohibiting or restricting the borrowing of money or the creation of debt by political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, which debt shall be backed by the full faith and credit and taxing power of the district but shall not be an obligation of the State of Georgia or any other unit of government of the State of Georgia other than the district.
Sec. 9. - Cooperation with local governments.
The services and facilities provided pursuant to this Act shall be provided for in a cooperation agreement executed jointly by the board and by Dawson County. The provisions of this section shall in no way limit the authority of Dawson County to provide services or facilities within the district; and Dawson County shall retain full and complete authority and control over any of its facilities located within its respective areas of any district. Said control shall include, but not be limited to, the modification of, access to, and degree and type of services provided through or by facilities of the county. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit or preempt the application of any governmental laws, ordinances, resolutions, or regulations to the district or the services or facilities provided therein.
Sec. 10. - Powers.
(a)
Each district and its board created pursuant to this Act shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this Act, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(1)
To bring and defend actions;
(2)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(3)
To make and execute contracts, agreements, and other instruments necessary or convenient to exercise the powers of the board or to further the public purposes for which the district is created, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, agreements for loans to finance projects, contracts with respect to the use of projects, and agreements with other jurisdictions or community improvement districts regarding multijurisdictional projects or services or for other cooperative endeavors to further the public purposes of the district;
(4)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character, or any interest therein, in furtherance of the public purposes of the district;
(5)
To finance by loan, grant, lease, or otherwise; to construct; erect; assemble; purchase; acquire; own; repair; remodel; renovate; rehabilitate; modify; maintain; extend; improve; install; sell; equip; expand; add to; operate; or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of the district or any other funds of the district, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships whether limited or general, or other entities, all of which the board is authorized to receive, accept, and use;
(6)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purposes and to execute bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its bonds, notes or other obligations, loan agreements, security agreements, assignments, and such other agreements or instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the board, to evidence and to provide security for such borrowing;
(7)
To issue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district and use the proceeds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project and otherwise to further or carry out the public purposes of the district and to pay all costs of the board incidental to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purposes;
(8)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, or county government or agency or to any other source, whether public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in furtherance of the district s public purposes and to accept and use the same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by such federal, state, or county government or agency or other source;
(9)
To enter into agreements with the federal government or any agency thereof to use the facilities or services of the federal government or any agency thereof in order to further or carry out the public purposes of the district;
(10)
To contract for any period, not exceeding 50 years, with the State of Georgia, state institutions, or any municipal corporation, county, or political subdivision of this state for the use by the district of any facilities or services of the state or any such state institution, municipal corporation, county, or political subdivision of this state, or for the use by any state institution or any municipal corporation, county, or political subdivision of this state of any facilities or services of the district, provided that such contracts shall deal with such activities and transactions as the district and any such political subdivision with which the district contracts are authorized by law to undertake;
(11)
To receive and use the proceeds of any tax levied by any county to pay the costs of any project or for any other purpose for which the board may use its own funds pursuant hereto;
(12)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of money and property of any kind and to administer trusts;
(13)
To use any real property, personal property, or fixtures or any interest therein or to rent or lease such property to or from others or make contracts with respect to the use thereof or to sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, or otherwise dispose of or grant options for any such property in any manner as it deems to be the best advantage of the district and the public purposes thereof;
(14)
To appoint, select, and employ engineers, surveyors, architects, urban or city planners, fiscal agents, attorneys, and others and to fix their compensation and pay their expenses;
(15)
To encourage and promote the improvement and development of the district and to make, contract for, or otherwise cause to be made long-range plans or proposals for the district in cooperation with Dawson County;
(16)
To adopt bylaws governing the conduct of business by the board, the election and duties of officers of the board, and other matters which the board determines to deal with in its bylaws;
(17)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of this state to public or private corporations which is not in conflict with the public purposes of the district, but not including the power of eminent domain;
(18)
To create, provide, enhance, or supplement public services such as fire, police, and other such services as may be deemed necessary, provided that said public services do not conflict with or duplicate existing Dawson County services; and
(19)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers conferred by this section.
(b)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are cumulative of and in addition to those powers enumerated in this section and elsewhere in this Act, and no such power limits or restricts any other power of the board.
(c)
The powers enumerated in each paragraph of subsection (a) of this section are conferred for an essential governmental function for a public purpose, and the revenues and debt of any district are not subject to taxation.
Sec. 11. - Bonds generally.
(a)
Notes or other obligations issued by a district other than general obligation bonds shall be paid solely from the property pledged to pay such notes or other obligations. General obligation bonds issued by any district shall constitute a general obligation of the district to the repayment of which the full faith and credit and taxing power of the district shall be pledged.
(b)
All bonds, notes, and other obligations of any district shall be authorized by resolution of its board adopted by a majority vote of the board members at a regular or special meeting.
(c)
Bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times not more than 40 years from their respective dates, shall bear interest at such rate or rates which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time, shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the board authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the board members of the district then in office and their successors.
(d)
The board shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted by this Act. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(e)
There shall be no limitation upon the interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates on any bonds, notes, or other obligations of any district; and the usury laws of this state shall not apply to bonds, notes, or other obligations of any district.
(f)
Bonds issued by a district may be in such form, either coupon or fully registered, or both coupon and fully registered, and may be subject to such exchangeability and transferability provisions as the bond resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or any indenture or trust agreement may provide.
(g)
All bonds issued by a district pursuant to this Act shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], the "Georgia Revenue Bond Law." The signature of the clerk of the Superior Court of Dawson County may be made on the certificate of validation of such bonds by facsimile or by manual execution, stating the date on which such bonds were validated; and such entry shall be original evidence of the fact of judgment and shall be received as original evidence in any court in this state.
(h)
In lieu of specifying the rate or rates of interest which such bonds are to bear and the principal amount and maturities of such bonds, the notice to the district attorney or the Attorney General, the notice to the public of the time, place, and date of the validation hearing, and the petition and complaint for validation may state that the bonds when issued will bear interest at a rate not exceeding a maximum per annum rate of interest which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time and that the principal amount will not exceed and the final maturity date will not be later than as specified in such notices and petition and complaint or may state that, in the event the bonds are to bear different rates of interest for different maturity dates, none of such rates will exceed the maximum rate which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time so specified; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting the right of a board to sell such bonds at a discount, even if in doing so the effective interest cost resulting would exceed the maximum per annum interest rate specified in such notices and in the petition and complaint.
(i)
The terms "cost of the project" and "cost of any project" shall have the meaning prescribed in this Act whenever those terms are referred to in bond resolutions of a board, in bonds, notes, or other obligations of the district, or in notices or proceedings to validate such bonds, notes, or other obligations of a district.
Sec. 12. - Authorized contents of agreements and instruments; use of proceeds of sale bonds, notes, and other obligations; subsequent issues of obligations.
(a)
Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this section and by Section 11 of this Act, the agreements or instruments executed by a board may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board.
(b)
The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by a district shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted by this Act, all or part of the cost of any project, or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance with this Act.
(c)
Issuance by a board of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other projects; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the board to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations on a parity with such prior issue.
(d)
In the event that any district shall be terminated in accordance with this Act, the board shall serve until December 31 of the year in which termination shall be approved for the purpose of concluding any ongoing matters and projects, but, if such cannot be concluded by December 31, then the governing authority of the county shall assume the duties of the administrative board and shall be expressly authorized to exercise the authority of the administrative board. In the alternative, the governing authority of the county may, by resolution, assume all rights and obligations of the district, either bonds or otherwise, and the district shall cease to exist upon the adoption of such resolution.
Sec. 13. - Construction; applicability of Chapter 5 of Title 10 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973"; notice, proceeding, publication, and referendum.
This Act shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. The offer, sale, or issuance of bonds, notes, or other obligations by a district shall not be subject to regulation under Chapter 5 of Title 10 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 10-5-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Securities Act of 1973." No notice, proceeding, or publication except those required hereby shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized hereby, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum.
Sec. 14. - Dissolution.
(a)
Any district activated under the provisions of this Act may be dissolved. The conditions for such dissolution shall be:
(1)
The adoption of a resolution approving of the dissolution of each community improvement district by the governing authority of Dawson County; and
(2)
The written consent to the dissolution of the community improvement district by:
(A)
Two-thirds of the owners of real property within the district that are subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board of the district; and
(B)
The owners of real property constituting at least 75 percent by value of all real property within the district that are subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board. For this purpose, value shall be determined by the most recently approved county ad valorem tax digest.
The written consent provided for in this paragraph shall be submitted to the Dawson County Tax Commissioner, who shall certify whether subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph have been satisfied with respect to each proposed district dissolution.
(b)
At the official caucus of electors at which board members are to be elected in the tenth year following creation of the district, and every tenth year thereafter, the question shall be put to the electors present to dissolve the community improvement district. Upon an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the electors present and voting, who shall represent at least 75 percent of the votes cast on the basis of value, the board shall send a ballot to each owner of property subject to taxes, fees, and assessments levied by the board for a vote on the dissolution. Upon receipt of ballots consenting to the dissolution from a majority of the property owners, who shall represent at least 75 percent of the assessed value of said properties, the board shall request dissolution by the governing authority and shall forward said ballots to the Dawson County Tax Commissioner for certification.
(c)
In the event that successful action is taken pursuant to this section to dissolve the district, the dissolution shall become effective at such time as all debt obligations of the district have been satisfied. Following a successful dissolution action and until the dissolution becomes effective, no new projects may be undertaken, no new obligations or debts may be incurred, and no new property may be acquired.
(d)
Upon a successful dissolution action, all noncash assets of the district other than public facilities or land or easements to be used for such public facilities, as described in Section 2 of this Act, shall be reduced to cash and, along with all other cash on hand, shall be applied to the repayment of any debt obligation of the district. Any cash remaining after all outstanding obligations are satisfied shall be refunded to Dawson County.
(e)
When a dissolution becomes effective, the county governing authority shall take title to all property previously in the ownership of the district and all taxes, fees, and assessments of the district shall cease to be levied and collected.
(f)
A district may be reactivated in the same manner as an original activation.
Sec. 15. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 16. - Effective date.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 17. - General repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
