ARTICLE VII. - RESPONSIBLE VENDOR PROGRAM

Sec. 6-191. - Intent.
It is the intent of the city council through the provisions of this article:
(1)
To eliminate the sale of alcoholic beverages to, and consumption of alcoholic beverages by underage persons;
(2)
To reduce intoxication and to reduce accidents, injuries, and deaths in the city which are related to intoxication; and
(3)
To encourage alcoholic beverage vendors to be prudent in their selling practices and to restrict or reduce the sanctions that may be imposed in administrative proceedings by the city against those vendors who comply with responsible practices in accordance with this article.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Sec. 6-192. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Colquitt city council or its authorized agent.
Vendor means a person who is licensed by the city to sell alcoholic beverages for on-the-premises consumption and/or for off-the-premises consumption.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Sec. 6-193. - Establishment of responsible vendors program.
The city manager shall establish or cause to be established a responsible vendors program designed to encourage vendors and their employees and customers to treat alcoholic beverages in a responsible manner. The program must include, without limitation, comprehensive instruction on the prevention of the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons not of legal age.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Sec. 6-194. - Evidence of compliance; certification; renewal; rules and regulations; enforcement personnel.
(a)
A vendor who seeks to qualify as a responsible vendor must provide to the city manager, pursuant to procedures adopted by the city, evidence of compliance with the requirements of this section. Upon satisfactory proof that the vendor has complied with the requirements, the city shall certify the vendor as a responsible vendor. Certification as a responsible vendor shall be renewed annually. At the time of renewal vendors must provide proof of compliance for each location at which they hold a license.
(b)
The city manager or his designee shall adopt rules and regulations for monitoring compliance by certified vendors and for revoking or suspending a vendor's certification for noncompliance with this section.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Sec. 6-195. - Requirements for certification.
In order to qualify for certification, the vendor shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Provide a course of instruction for its employees approved by the city manager or his designee which shall include subjects dealing with alcoholic beverages as follows:
a.
Laws regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages for on-the-premises consumption and/or for off-the-premises consumption;
b.
Methods of recognizing and dealing with underage customers; and
c.
The development of specific procedures for refusing to sell alcoholic beverage to underage customers; for assisting employees in dealing with underage customers; and for dealing with intoxicated customers;
(2)
Require each employee who is authorized to sell alcoholic beverages in the normal course of his employment to complete the employee training course set out in subsection (1) of this section within 30 days of commencing employment;
(3)
Require all such trained employees to attend additional meetings at least semiannually or such other schedule of meetings as may be approved by the city manager, which meetings shall include the dissemination of existing and new information covering the applicable subjects specified in this section and explaining the vendor's policies and procedures relating to those subjects;
(4)
Maintain employment records of the training of its employees required by this section; and
(5)
Post signs on the vendor's premises informing customers of the vendor's policy against selling alcoholic beverages to underage persons.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Sec. 6-196. - Compliance as defense to license suspension or revocation; mitigation of administrative penalties or fines.
(a)
The license of a vendor certified as a responsible vendor under this chapter shall be subject to a reduction in penalty for an employee's illegal sale of an alcoholic beverage to a person who is not of lawful drinking age if the employee had completed the applicable training prescribed by this chapter prior to committing such violation, unless the vendor had knowledge of the violation or should have known about such violation, or participated in or committed such violation. No vendor may use as a defense to decertification the fact that he was absent from the licensed premises at the time of noncompliance with this section.
(b)
The city shall consider certification by a vendor in the responsible vendors program in mitigation of administrative penalties or fines for an employee's illegal sale of an alcoholic beverage to a person who is not of lawful drinking age.
(Ord. of 3-11-22)
Secs. 6-197—6-224. - Reserved.
