ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-31. - Open meetings.
All meetings of the city council, its authorities, boards, commissions and committees shall be held in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq. The public shall at all times be afforded access to all meetings other than closed meetings as provided in section 2-35.
State Law reference— Meetings to be open to public, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-32. - Regular meetings.
The regular meetings of the city council shall be held at 7:00 p.m. on the second Tuesday of each month. All regular meetings shall be held in the city hall annex. A notice containing the information described in this section shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the general public at city hall. No official action may be taken on any issue at a work session which may be called by the mayor or three councilmembers.
State Law reference— Requirement to prescribe the time, place and dates of regular meetings of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-33. - Special meetings and rescheduled regular meetings.
A regular meeting may be canceled, rescheduled or moved to a new location by the mayor for any reason. Other special meetings may be scheduled by the mayor or at the request of three councilmembers. Whenever a rescheduled regular meeting or any other special meeting is to be held at a time or place other than the regularly scheduled time or place, written notice of the change shall be posted for at least 24 hours at the place of the regular meetings. This written notice shall include the purpose of the meeting. In addition, written or oral notice shall be given by the clerk at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ of the county and to each member of the council.
State Law reference— Due notice requirements for other than regular meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(d).
Sec. 2-34. - Emergency meetings.
When emergency circumstances occur, the city council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice to the public. When such meetings are to be held, the clerk shall provide notice to the legal organ of the county and to each councilmember as soon as possible. The notice shall include the subjects expected to be considered at the meeting. In addition, the minutes shall reflect the reason for the emergency meeting and the nature of the notice given to the media.
Sec. 2-35. - Closed meetings.
Closed meetings of the city council may be held for the purpose of conducting business excepted from public access requirements as authorized by O.C.G.A. §§ 50-14-2 and 50-14-3. Where a meeting of the council is devoted in part to matters within the authorized exceptions to public access requirements, any portion of the meeting not subject to any such exceptions shall be open to the public. No closed meeting shall be held except pursuant to a majority affirmative vote of the council taken in a public meeting. The minutes of the public meeting shall reflect the names of the councilmembers present, those voting for the closed meeting and the specific reasons for the closed meeting. Minutes of the closed meeting may be maintained by the city clerk at the direction of the mayor. Any such minutes shall be maintained in a confidential file and shall not be subject to disclosure, except that disclosures of such portions of minutes identifying real estate to be acquired by the council may only be delayed until such time as the acquisition of the real estate has been completed, terminated or abandoned, or court proceedings have been initiated. Voting on any issue shall not take place during a closed meeting but shall be done, if appropriate, in open session following the closed meeting.
State Law reference— Exemptions from open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3.
Sec. 2-36. - Agenda; citizen appearances.
The agenda for regular meetings of the city council shall be prepared on the Friday before the scheduled meeting. Citizens desiring to bring business before the council shall notify the city clerk by noon Thursday, the day before, in order to include the business on the agenda for consideration by the city council. The presiding officer at such meeting shall have the discretion to recognize any person attending a city council meeting.
(Mo. of 5-11-04)
Sec. 2-37. - Rules of procedure.
Rules of procedure shall be as prescribed by the city council, and in the absence of such rules, Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall govern.
Sec. 2-38. - Adoption of ordinances.
An ordinance may be introduced by the mayor or any councilmember and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. After introduction, the council will consider adoption or rejection at the same meeting.
(Ord. of 3-15-22)
Sec. 2-39. - Standing committees.
The following may be the standing committees of the city council:
Finance
Public safety
Public works
Recreation
The city council may appoint other committees as deemed necessary.
(Code 1976, § 3-205)
Secs. 2-40—2-70. - Reserved.
