DIVISION 7. - R-PUD, RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

Sec. 22-131. - Statement of purpose.
It is the intention of this section to provide areas of sufficient size and allowing reasonable flexibility in design and orientation for the establishment of a group of structures, which includes multiple dwellings designed in a planned unit development of more than one (1) building on a given development site. This includes but is not limited to cluster developments and zero lot line developments.
Therefore, the zoning ordinance regulations relative to area, height, bulk and placement may, in the planned unit development district, be modified by the planning commission and mayor and city council, in the case of a plan for a large scale development which, in the judgment of the planning commission and mayor and city council, provides adequate open space and improvements for circulation, recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed, provided that in no case may the density of the proposed planned unit development exceed thirteen (13) dwelling units per acre and provided further than the minimum site size for the residential planned unit development is two (2) acres.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.01, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-132. - General procedures for PUD (R-PUD) approval.
Any proposed property for PUD development must first be zoned to the R-PUD zoning classification. The PUD zoning procedure will generally follow the same procedures as other zoning requests. However, the applicant for PUD zoning shall submit a preliminary site development plan of the proposed development at the same time a petition for PUD zoning is made.
No rezoning for PUD will be granted to a petitioner until the preliminary site plan is reviewed by the planning commission and approved by the mayor and city council, respecting other property rezoning criteria established by the city.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.02, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-133. - Permitted uses.
In all R-PUD districts, no building or land, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected or used except for one (1) or more of the following specified uses:
(a)
Single-family detached dwellings, including manufactured homes.
(b)
Duplexes.
(c)
Townhouses (subject to the provisions of section 22-151 et seq.).
(d)
Multifamily dwellings.
(e)
Condominiums.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.03, 1-8-01; Ord. No. 644, § 5, 8-14-06)
Sec. 22-134. - Conditional uses.
Any use listed under section 22-118 of the R-3 zoning district.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.04, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-135. - Preliminary review.
Preliminary review is recommended as an aid to both the developer and to the city. Under this procedure, a developer provides the information which is described below and the planning commission then acts on the information provided. This review is intended to serve as a guide for the immediate inspection of the planning commission, subject to a thorough study and analysis. Changes and additions which may have to be made before a mutual agreement is reached can be made at such time without excessive engineering or other costs to the developer.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.05, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-136. - Procedure for preliminary approval.
An application shall be submitted to the planning commission by the owner or his/her authorized representative for approval of a preliminary site plan of any proposed development anticipated under the residential planned unit development (R-PUD) district provision of this chapter. Appropriate copies of the preliminary site plan at a scale not more than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following, shall be submitted with the application.
(a)
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded and the name of the present owner.
(b)
Names of owners of adjacent property.
(c)
A topographic map showing the general location of existing property lines, streets, alleys, buildings, easements, swamps, watercourses, and other physical site features which relate to the development.
(d)
The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal and storm drainage.
(e)
All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be appropriately indicated on the plan.
(f)
Date, North point and graphic scale.
(g)
Other information required by the planning commission to insure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
The developer shall furnish to the planning commission a statement indicating the proposed use to which the development will be put, along with a description of the type of residential building and number of units contemplated. Upon receiving approval of the preliminary site plan, the developer may proceed to develop the final plan. No building permit shall be issued until approval of the final plan is given.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.06, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-137. - Procedure for final plan approval.
An application in writing shall be submitted to the planning commission by the owner or his/her authorized representative for approval of the final plan for any proposed development anticipated under the residential planned unit development district of this chapter. Appropriate copies of the final plan, at a scale of not more than one hundred (100) feet to the inch, showing the following information shall be submitted with the application.
(a)
The title under which the proposed development is to be recorded, the legal description of the land to be developed, the name of the present owner, and the name and address of the technical author of the plan.
(b)
Names and owners of adjacent property and general information as to boundaries thereof as well as the existing zoning on such tracts.
(c)
A map showing the location of existing property lines, the adjoining streets, alleys, buildings, drains, easements, watercourses, and other physical site features which relate to the development.
(d)
The proposed method of water supply, sewage disposal and storm drains, and other engineering data required by the planning commission to clearly indicate the general design of said utility services. It shall be mandatory that the development use the city water and sewer services and that all streets in the development be paved in accordance with city standards.
(e)
The size and capacity of existing sewer, water, storm drains, and thoroughfares in the area.
(f)
The location and dimensions to the nearest foot of lots, building lines, alleys, easements, parks, and other public properties on the property to be developed. All lots in a preliminary plan shall be designated by consecutive numbers beginning with number one (1).
(g)
All proposed uses of the property to be developed shall be indicated on the plan.
(h)
Date, North point and graphic scale.
(i)
Proposed development restrictions and/or protective covenants to be imposed upon the property after development.
(j)
Bearings and distances of all courses of the exterior boundary of the proposed development and its area in acres to the third decimal place.
(k)
The developer shall furnish to the planning commission a statement indicating the proposed use to which the development will be put, along with a description of the type of residential buildings and number of units contemplated, so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards or congestion of population.
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.07, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-138. - Area, height and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, section 22-321.)
(Ord. No. 548, § 10.08, 1-8-01)
Secs. 22-139—22-150. - Reserved.
