PART I - LOCAL CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Part I consists of amendments to the various Georgia Constitutions which are applicable only to Henry County. Local amendments to the Constitution of 1945 are recognized as continuing in full force and effect by Art XIII, § 1 (para. II) of the 1976 Constitution. Article XI, § I para. IV of the 1983 Georgia Constitution provides for the repeal effective July 1, 1987 of certain local constitutional amendments unless they are reenacted prior to such date Provisions in the act which proposed a constitutional amendment which provide for approval by the General Assembly and/or the electorate (generally section 2 of such an act) are not printed.

CHAPTER 1-1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1-1. - Authority of county governing authority to regulate traffic and animals.
Article VI, Section I of the Constitution is hereby amended to add at the end thereof a new paragraph to read as follows:
"The governing authority of Henry County is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to traffic and animal control regulations, for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of said county for the purpose of protecting and preserving the health, safety, welfare, and morals of the citizens thereof as it may deem advisable, not in conflict with the general laws of this state and of the United States, and for the implementation and enforcement of all duties and powers now or hereafter vested in said governing authority; and to provide penalties for violations of such ordinances, setting the nature and amount of such penalties or punishments; and to have same enforced in the court which shall have jurisdiction in Henry County over such offenses."
(Ga. Laws 1980, P. 2303, Act. No. 258, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 4, 1980 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
CHAPTER 1-2. - BOARD OF EDUCATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Exemption from ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, § 1-4-3; publication of financial statement of school systems, § 2-2-2.

Sec. 1-2-1. - Size, election districts, terms of office, organization, etc.
Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution, relating to county boards of education, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The Board of Education of Henry County shall be composed of five (5) members, to be elected by the voters of their respective districts as hereinafter provided. For the purposes of electing such members, Henry County is hereby divided into five (5) education districts.
"Education district No. 1 shall be composed of militia district #498 (McDonough) and militia district #1477 (Flippen).
"Education district No. 2 shall be composed of militia district #641 (Lowes), militia district #723 (Hampton) and militia district #486 (Sixth).
"Education district No. 3 shall be composed of militia district #775 (Stockbridge), militia district #888 (Shakerag) and militia district #622 (Brushy Knob).
"Education district No. 4 shall be composed of militia district #491 (Loves), militia district #611 (McMullens) and militia district #638 (Beersheba).
"Education district No. 5 shall be composed of militia district #576 (Locust Grove) militia district #489 (Tussahaw) and militia district #767 (Sandy Ridge).
"The Board of Education of Henry County shall be composed of one member from each education district. Any person offering as a candidate to represent an education district on the board must reside in the district from which he offers and each member shall be elected by the voters within his district.
"In the event this amendment is ratified, it shall be the duty of the Ordinary of Henry County to issue the call for an election, which call shall be issued at least ten (10) days prior to the date of such election. The ordinary shall set the date for such election for either December 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20, 1958. Such election shall be for the purpose of electing the first members of the Board of Education of Henry County created under this amendment, and it shall be the duty of the ordinary to publish the date of the election and the purpose thereof at least once preceding the date of the election, in the official organ of Henry County. The members elected at such election shall take office January 1, 1959, and shall serve for a term of two (2) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Future elections shall be held every two (2) years, at the same time as elections for members of the General Assembly from Henry County are held, and the members elected shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election. All future members shall likewise serve for a term of two (2) years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
"At the first meeting in January, 1959, and at the first meeting in January each two (2) years thereafter, the members of the board shall elect a chairman for the next two (2) years. Any member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself as chairman.
"In the event of a vacancy on the board for any reason other than the expiration of a term of office, the remaining members of the board shall elect a person from the education district in which the vacancy occurs, who shall serve for the unexpired term. In the event a person who represents an education district moves his residence from such district, a vacancy shall exist from such district, and shall be filled in the same manner as other vacancies.
"The Board of Education of Henry County in office at the time of the ratification of this amendment is hereby abolished effective at the end of December 31, 1958, and the terms of all members of such board shall expire at that time.
"The compensation of the members of the Board of Education of Henry County shall be fixed by the General Assembly of Georgia in a local act for that purpose.
"The Board of Education of Henry County as provided for herein and the county school superintendent of Henry County shall be subject to all constitutional provisions and all statutory provisions relative to county boards of education and county school superintendents, respectively, unless such provisions are in conflict with the provisions of this amendment."
(Ga. Laws 1958, P. 436, Act. No. 77, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 4, 1958 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment. In McRae v. The Board of Education of Henry County, Civ. Action No. C-79-2064A, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia ruled that a 1966 amendment (Ga. Laws 1966, pp. 919—922) to the act compiled above violated the pre-clearance requirements of Section 5 of the Voting Acts Rights Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973(c)). Finding that the districts as set out in the act compiled above also violated such act, the court entered a redistricting order; such districts are now identical to the districts for the board of commissioners as compiled in Section 2-2-17.
CHAPTER 1-3. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Local acts relating to development authority, § 2-2-111 et seq.; salary of development authority, § 3-2-56.

Sec. 1-3-1. - Created, organization, etc.
Article V, Section IX, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the 'Henry County Development Authority' which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced within the limits of Henry County. The County and any municipality located therein may contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
"The members of the authority, their qualifications, terms and method of election or appointment, shall be prescribed by law by the General Assembly. The authority shall have such duties, powers, and authority as shall be prescribed by law and the General Assembly may pass all other necessary legislation for the implementation of this amendment.
"The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and the interest of the obligations of Henry County. The exemptions from taxation herein provided shall not include exemptions from sales and use taxes on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority.
"All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the authority, and all debentures and revenue bonds issued by the authority, shall be exempt from state and local taxation. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants nor lessees of the authority.
"Said authority is created for the purpose of developing, promoting and expanding for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits. The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia or Henry County. The authority is created for nonprofit purposes and all property acquired by the authority and any funds realized by the authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the authority is created.
"No building or facility acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the day of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all cost of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all indebtedness, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking."
(Ga. Laws 1966, P. 853, Act No. 58, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 8, 1960 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
CHAPTER 1-4. - LICENSES, TAXATION AND BUSINESS REGULATION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Tax for support of water and sewer systems authorize, § 1-5-2; special acts relating to licenses and taxation, Ch. 2-4, tax commissioner, § 2-2-81, ordinances relating to licenses and taxation generally, Ch. 3-3, excise tax on malt beverages and wine, § 3-14-17, licensing of malt beverages and wine, § 3-14-46 et seq.

Sec. 1-4-1. - Authority of county governing authorities or municipal corporations to grant ad valorem tax exemptions to certain tangible personal property (Freeport amendment).
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
"In order to encourage and enhance overall economic development, increase employment, promote industry and commerce, provide incentives for the location of new (or expansion of existing) manufacturing, processing, storage or transshipment facilities, the governing authority of Henry County or any municipal corporation within Henry County shall have the authority to provide for the exemption from all ad valorem taxation by such governing authority of tangible personal property transported into the territorial jurisdiction of such governing authority from outside the state in transit to a final destination outside the state and of tangible personal property grown, harvested, manufactured, processed or refined in Henry County and stored therein for shipment outside the state. Property shall not cease to be in transit within the exemption granted pursuant to this provision by virtue of the fact that while held, or while in storage, in Henry County such property is assembled, bound, joined, processed, disassembled, divided, cut, broken in bulk, packaged, labeled, repackaged or relabeled. Such tangible personal property shall not be exempt from State ad valorem taxation."
(Ga. Laws 1976, P. 1900, Act No. 216, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1976 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Sec. 1.4.1.A. - Filing deadlines.
Persons desiring to obtain exemption from ad valorem taxation for tangible personal property as defined in section 1-4-1 shall timely file an application for such exemption on forms provided by the Henry County Board of Tax Assessors. Such application shall include a schedule of inventory for which the exemption is sought. In order to be qualified for the exemption, applications shall be filed on or before April 1 of the tax year for which such exemption is sought. Applications filed after April 1 shall allow the applicant to exempt only a portion of qualified tangible personal property from taxation as follows:
EXPAND
Application Filing Date Percentage of Exemption Permitted
April 2—April 30 66.67%
May 1—May 31 58.33%
June 1 50%
After June 1 Exemption is waived
  An application will be considered filed on the date shown by the official postmark affixed by the United States Postal Service (not a private or commercial postage meter) or the date shown on the commercial carrier's transmittal form on the envelope or package containing the application, if the envelope or package is property addressed, postage prepaid, and the postmark or transmittal date is legible. Otherwise, the document will be deemed filed on the date the document was physically received in the office of the Henry County Board of Tax Assessors.
( Ord. No. 17-18, 12-5-17 )
Sec. 1-4-1.1. - Homestead exemption generally.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding after the following paragraph:
"The homestead of each resident of Georgia actually occupied by the owner as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such, but not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) of its value, is hereby exempted from all ad valorem taxation for state, county and school purposes, except taxes levied by municipalities for school purposes and except to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, provided, however, should the owner of a dwelling house on a farm, who is already entitled to homestead exemption, participate in the program of rural housing and obtain a new house under contract with the local housing authority, he shall be entitled to receive the same homestead exemption as allowed before making such contract. The General Assembly may from time to time lower said exemption to not less than one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00). The value of all property in excess of the foregoing exemptions shall remain subject to taxation. Said exemptions shall be returned and claimed in such manner as prescribed by the General Assembly. The exemption herein provided for shall not apply to taxes levied by municipalities",
a new paragraph to read as follows:
"For purposes of the application in Henry County of the exemption granted in the immediately preceding paragraph from ad valorem taxation for state, county, and school purposes, except taxes levied by municipalities for school purposes and except taxes to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, the amount of the exemption is hereby increased to four thousand dollars ($4,000.00)."
(Ga. Laws 1982, Act No. 124, P. 2517, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1982 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Sec. 1-4-2. - Homestead exemption for elderly—For state and county ad valorem taxes.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding after the following paragraph:
"Each person who is sixty-five (65) years of age or over is hereby granted an exemption from all state and county ad valorem taxes in the amount of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence if his net income, together with the net income of his spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by Georgia law, from all sources, except as hereinafter provided, does not exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this paragraph, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor or disability benefits under the Federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and his spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this paragraph. The value of the residence in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he, or through his agent, files an affidavit with the tax commissioner or tax receiver of the county in which he resides, giving his age and the amount of income which he and his spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner or tax receiver to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner or tax receiver shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner or tax receiver in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption including penalties necessary therefor. The increased exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1974.",
a new paragraph to read as follows:
"Each person who is sixty-five (65) years of age or over or who is disabled is hereby granted an exemption from Henry County ad valorem taxes in the amount of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence if his net income, together with the net income of his spouse who also occupies and resides at such homestead, as net income is defined by Georgia law, from all sources, except as hereinafter provided, does not exceed six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) for the immediately preceding taxable year for income tax purposes. For the purposes of this paragraph, net income shall not include income received as retirement, survivor, or disability benefits under the Federal Social Security Act or under any other public or private retirement, disability, or pension system, except such income which is in excess of the maximum amount authorized to be paid to an individual and his spouse under the Federal Social Security Act, and income from such sources in excess of such maximum amount shall be included as net income for the purposes of this paragraph. The value of the residence in excess of the above-exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. In order to qualify for the exemption provided for herein as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than two (2) physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or she or his or her agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Henry County, giving his or her age, or if disabled the certificate or certificates provided for herein, and the amount of income which he or she and his or her spouse received during the last taxable year for income tax purposes, and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, and certificate or certificates if disabled, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he or she make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he or she becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption, including penalties necessary therefor. The homestead exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1982."
(Ga. Laws 1980, P. 2255, Act No. 238, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, P. 2519, Act No. 125, § 1)
Editor's note— The 1980 amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 4, 1980 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment. The 1982 amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1980 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Sec. 1-4-3. - Same—or ad valorem taxes for educational purposes.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding after the following paragraph:
"The homestead of each resident of each county school district who is sixty-two (62) years of age or over and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per annum, may be exempt by law from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system, including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness. No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the tax receiver or tax commissioner of his county giving his age, the amount of income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this paragraph as will enable the tax receiver or tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The tax receiver or tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. The exemption granted to the homestead within this paragraph shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one or more title holders, if actually occupied by one or more such owners as a residence, and one or more such title holders possesses the qualifications provided for in this paragraph. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner herein provided by one or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor or trustee, if one or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for herein and shall claim the exemptions granted by this paragraph in the manner herein provided. The exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1972.",
a new paragraph to read as follows:
"Any other provision of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the homestead of each resident of the Henry County School District who is sixty-two (62) years of age or over or disabled and who does not have an income from all sources, including the income of all members of the family residing within said homestead, exceeding twelve thousand dollars ($12,000.00) per annum, may be exempt by law from all ad valorem taxation for educational purposes levied for and in behalf of such school system, including taxes to retire school bond indebtedness. The exemption shall not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) of the homestead's assessed value. The value of the residence in excess of the above-exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. No such exemption shall be granted unless an affidavit of the owner of the homestead is filed with the tax receiver or tax commissioner of his county giving his age, the amount of income which he received for the immediately preceding calendar year, the income which the members of his family residing within the homestead received for such period, and such other additional information relative to receiving the benefits of the exemption granted by this paragraph as will enable the tax receiver or tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to said exemption. The tax receiver or tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. In order to qualify for the exemption provided for herein as being disabled, a disabled person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain and submit with such affidavit a certificate from not more than two (2) physicians licensed to practice medicine under the laws of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, and certificate or certificates if disabled, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit and certificate thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The exemption granted to the homestead within this paragraph shall extend to and shall apply to those properties, the legal title to which is vested in one or more title holders, if actually occupied by one or more such owners as a residence, and one or more such title holders possesses the qualifications provided for in this paragraph. In such instances, such exemptions shall be granted to such properties, if claimed in the manner herein provided by one or more of the owners actually residing on such property. Such exemptions shall also extend to those homesteads, the title to which is vested in an administrator, executor or trustee, if one or more of the heirs or cestui que uses residing on such property shall possess the qualifications provided for herein and shall claim the exemptions granted by this paragraph in the manner herein provided. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption, including penalties necessary therefor. The homestead exemptions provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1982."
(Ga. Laws 1980, P. 2257, Act No. 239, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, P. 2515, Act No. 123, § 1)
Editor's note— The 1980 amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 4, 1980 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment. The 1982 amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1982 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Sec. 1-4-3.1. - Exemption of capital improvements of new manufacturing establishments from county.
Paragraph IV of Section I of Article VII of the Constitution is amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph to read as follows:
"All capital improvements of each new manufacturing establishment located in Henry County, Georgia, shall be exempt from all county ad valorem taxes, except for school purposes, for three (3) years from the time of its establishment provided such establishment has capital improvements of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more. For the purpose of this exemption, the term 'manufacturing establishment' shall mean and include every person, firm, partnership, or corporation engaged in making, fabricating, or changing things into new forms for use or in refining, rectifying, or combining different materials for use. The term 'capital improvements' shall mean and include buildings, machinery, and equipment directly connected with the manufacturing process."
(Ga. Laws 1982, P. 2609, Act No. 161, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1982 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Sec. 1-4-4. - Authority of General Assembly to authorize license tax or regulatory fee; authority of board of commissioners to regulate businesses and penalty for violation of business regulations.
Article XI, Section I, Paragraph VI of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The General Assembly is authorized to empower the Board of Commissioners of Henry County with the right and power, for regulatory and revenue purposes, to levy, assess, and collect a license fee from any person, firm, or corporation, except those subject to regulation by the state public service commission, who may maintain a place of business or who may in any manner engage in any type of business in any area of Henry County outside the incorporated limits of municipalities and to levy and collect excise taxes in connection with any activity at any racetrack in any area of Henry County. To provide for public welfare, health and security of the people of Henry County, the board shall have the right to regulate and exercise police powers over any businesses operated within the unincorporated areas of said County, except those subject to regulation by the State Public Service Commission, and to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the powers herein granted. Violation of any regulations adopted by the Board shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof as prescribed by the general laws of the State of Georgia."
(Ga. Laws 1970, P. 1044, Act No. 193, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 3, 1970 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
Cross reference— Business licenses and regulations authorized, § 2-4-26, business licenses, § 3-3-21 et seq; regulation of amusements, Ch. 3-15; peddlers, § 3-3-46 et seq.
Sec. 1-4-5. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-4-6. - Authority of General Assembly to authorize tax on mobile home rental sites and units.
Article VII, Section IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
"Any other provisions of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the General Assembly is hereby authorized to provide by law that the Board of Commissioners of Henry County may levy and collect a tax, subject to the exemptions and graduations as may be provided by such law, on mobile home rental units and mobile home rental sites located within said county not to exceed a rate of two (2) percent of the total amount annually collected as rent for such units and sites."
(Ga. Laws 1970, P. 1119, Act No. 218, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 3, 1970 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment. A 1976 amendment to Art. VII, § 1 of the Georgia Constitution repealed Ga. Code Ann. § 23-2307, which was similar to the act passed pursuant to the above amendment. See also Official Code of Georgia Annotated, § 48-5-441.
Cross reference— Tax on mobile homes and mobile home rental sites authorized, § 2-4-16, ordinances relating to mobile homes, § 3-9-141 et seq.
CHAPTER 1-5. - WATER, SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Special acts relating to water and sewage systems, Ch. 2-10; board of commissioners to audit water and sewerage authority, § 2-2-33; ordinances relating to water, sewers and sewage disposal, § 3-5-216 et seq.

Sec. 1-5-1. - Authority to issue bonds; authority to levy taxes to pay for bonds; authority to improve systems.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Anything in this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, Henry County is hereby authorized to incur an additional indebtedness for water and sewerage purposes and evidence the same by the issuance, from time to time, of its direct general obligation water and sewerage bonds, but the aggregate principal amount of such general obligation bonds outstanding at any one time shall not exceed seven (7) per centum of the assessed value of all taxable property within the County subject to taxation for bond purposes. Said debt limitation shall be in addition to and separate from the seven (7) per centum debt limitation now imposed by Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution. Nothing herein contained shall limit or otherwise affect the amount of bonds Henry County may issue under said Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution for other purposes. Said County is hereby authorized to levy taxes without limitation as to rate or amount sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on said bonds as same mature. The issuance or non-issuance of said water and sewerage bonds shall be submitted to the registered, qualified voters of the County for their determination as provided under Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution and the laws of this State. In addition to the foregoing, the governing authority of Henry County is hereby authorized to levy taxes to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing or otherwise improving the water and sewerage system of said County. The provisions of this amendment are cumulative and are in addition to all other rights and authority which have heretofore been conferred or may hereafter be conferred upon Henry County, under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including, but not limited to, the right and authority of said County to issue its water and sewerage revenue bonds under the Constitution and the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 36 et seq., as amended) amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law (Georgia Laws 1937, p. 761 et. seq., as amended). This amendment is self-enacting and does not require any enabling legislation for it to become effective; provided, however, the General Assembly may by law grant further and additional powers to the County not inconsistent with the provisions of this amendment."
(Ga. Laws 1968, P. 1774, Act No. 248, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 5, 1968 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment.
References in the above amendment to a seven (7) per centum debt limitation are obsolete, as Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I of the 1976 Constitution provides for a ten (10) per centum debt limitation. All references in the above section to Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I are to the 1945 Constitution; its successor provision in the 1976 Constitution is Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I. The Revenue Bond Law is Official Code of Georgia Annotated, § 36-82-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-5-2. - General authority to tax for support.
Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph II of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The governing authority of Henry County is hereby authorized to levy a tax, in addition to any other tax authorized to be levied, not to exceed two (2) mills per dollar on all taxable property located in said County. The proceeds of such tax shall be appropriated and used for water or water and sewerage purposes and to guarantee payment, in whole or in part, of water or water and sewerage revenue bonds issued, from time to time, by the County and the Henry County Water Authority and to otherwise support and maintain the operations of a water or water and sewerage system of Henry County."
This amendment is self-enacting and does not require any enabling legislation for it to become effective; provided, however, the General Assembly may by law grant further and additional powers to Henry County and the Henry County Water Authority not inconsistent with the provisions of this Amendment.
(Ga. Laws 1968, P. 1739, Act No. 238, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment was ratified by the electors at the November 2, 1976 election as required by section 2 of the act proposing the amendment. References in the above amendment to the Henry County Water Authority should be interpreted as referring to the Henry County Water and Sewerage Authority, as the act created the water authority was amended to change the name to the water and sewerage authority. See § 2-10-21.
Cross reference— Special acts relating to licenses and taxation.
