Chapter 34 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27, all cities with a population greater than 1,000 are required to have an emergency management plan. Woodstock participates in the Cherokee County plan and organization.
Charter reference— Other emergency powers of mayor, § 1.13(43).
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— The Georgia Emergency Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Power of mayor, mayor pro tem or designee to declare existence of emergency.
The mayor, mayor pro tem or his designee shall have the right to declare the existence of an emergency when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
(1)
An extreme likelihood of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
A stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-31)
Charter reference— Duties of mayor, § 2.17; mayor pro tem, § 2.19; emergency ordinances, § 2.35.
Sec. 34-2. - Powers of mayor, mayor pro tem or designee after declaration of emergency.
After declaration of an emergency, the mayor, mayor pro tem or his designee shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
The power to use city employees to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of city citizens;
(2)
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city where an emergency exists;
(3)
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations;
(4)
The power to close business establishments within the affected areas;
(5)
The power to close any and all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public; and
(6)
The power to do any and all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of city citizens, including, but not limited to, waiving permit fees, license fees and other fees.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-32; Ord. No. 94-11-08, 11-8-1994)
Charter reference— Duties of mayor, § 2.17; mayor pro tem, § 2.19; emergency ordinances, § 2.35.
Sec. 34-3. - Limitation of emergency powers.
(a)
No emergency power as set forth in this chapter may be effective for more than 72 hours after declaration of an emergency by the mayor, mayor pro tem or his designee, unless declaration of a second or further emergencies is declared. In this event, the emergency powers as set forth in this chapter may be exercised up to an additional 72 hours per emergency period.
(b)
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the city council.
(c)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Code 1989, § 2-1-33; Ord. No. 94-11-08, 11-8-1994)
Charter reference— Duties of mayor, § 2.17; mayor pro tem, § 2.19; emergency ordinances, § 2.35.
Sec. 34-4. - Declaration of water conservation measures during emergencies.
The city manager, or his designee, with the authorization of the city council on a case-by-case basis, is empowered to implement special water conservation measures during emergency conditions. Emergency conditions include times of drought; low stream flows; interruptions in the raw water supply due to breaks or contamination; inability of the filter plants to meet demand; excessive losses or demands in the distribution system due to breaks, fires or other causes; contamination in the finished water; or any other purpose for which the curtailed use of water might be reasonably required in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare as determined by the city council. The water conservation measures may include restrictions or prohibitions on nonessential uses such as swimming pool filling; watering of lawns and gardens; washing of motor vehicles; recreational uses; and other uses which the city manager, or his designee, may deem to be nonessential. The type, nature, degree, commencement and duration of restrictions or prohibitions is to be determined by the city manager, or his designee, as directed by the city council. The existence of restrictions or prohibitions imposed under the dictates of this section shall be published weekly in the county organ in the nonlegal section setting forth the specific nature of the restrictions or prohibitions; the reasons why the restrictions or prohibitions became or will become effective; and, at the appropriate time, the date upon which the restrictions or prohibitions are rescinded. The publication shall continue weekly until such time as the emergency is past and the restrictions or prohibitions are rescinded. The restrictions or prohibitions shall become effective no sooner than the first day following the publication date of the first notice.
(Ord. No. 00-08-11, 8-11-2000)
Sec. 34-5. - Water ban violations.
Special powers are hereby given to the city manager, as authorized by the city council, to curtail water usage during emergency conditions, as mandated now or as hereafter amended by the State of Georgia Environmental Protection Division (EPD). City of Woodstock, Georgia, water customers shall comply with mandatory outdoor watering restrictions.
This section institutes fines for violators of the mandatory outdoor watering restrictions instituties by the Georgia EPD as enforced by the city:
First offense .....Warning
Second offense .....$500.00
Third offense .....Mandatory
court appearance and up to $1,000.00 fine. May also include loss of service, which will result in additional service fees for reconnection or reinstallation.
(Ord. No. 05-06-22, 6-22-2005; Ord. No. 021-2007, § 1, 12-17-2007; Ord. No. 2008-0013, 9-8-2008)
Sec. 34-6. - Joint city/county emergency management ordinance.
(a)
Definitions.
Disaster means any natural, technological, civil emergency or threat thereof that causes or has the potential to cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to result in a declaration of a state of emergency declared by a county, the governor or the President of the United States.
Emergency means any natural or manmade even requiring the activation of the local emergency operations plan.
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade of natural origin"... "These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services; police services [public safety]; medical and health services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons; evacuation of persons from stricken area; emergency welfare services; emergency transportation; [nuclear power] plant protection; temporary restoration of public service utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions." (OCGA Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, As Amended December 1992, Chapter 3, Article 1 38-3-3.)
Local emergency management director means the person nominated by the local governments and appointed by the state emergency management director to implement the local emergency operations plan.
State emergency management director means the person appointed by the governor to head the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(b)
Local organization for emergency management. In agreement with the governing officials of the cities within the county, there is hereby established the Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency Management Agency. The chairperson of the Cherokee County, Georgia County Commissioners, has given the authority for the emergency management program to the Cherokee County Georgia Sheriff effective August 16, 2005. The Cherokee County Sheriff with the concurrence of the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners and officials of the cities within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the state emergency management director, a director of the Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency Management Agency. Upon appointment, the local emergency management director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the Cherokee County, Georgia Sheriff and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. The director of the Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency management Agency shall also serve as the single point of contact for the NIMS/ICS program. When appointed, the local emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assist local officials in organizing county departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments, the Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency Operations Plan for emergency functions. Such plan will be in consonance with the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials of Cherokee County, Georgia and the cities within the county for approval, and thence to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency for approval.
(4)
Maintain the Emergency Management Agency and carry out the day-to-day administration of the Cherokee County, Georgia emergency management program, including the submission of required reports, to the Georgia Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
Submit reports as required by governmental officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g. financial, daily activities, etc.
(6)
Obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency Operations Center.
(7)
Coordinate the activities of the Cherokee County Emergency Operating Staff during periods of emergency, and under the supervision of the Cherokee County Sheriff.
(c)
Cherokee County Emergency Management Agency. The Cherokee County, Georgia Emergency Management Agency shall be established around existing county and city departments. The emergency support functions, (ESFs) and department/agency assignments are as follows: (Department/Agency assignment listed below are examples only. It is the responsibility of local governments to make assignments based upon local capabilities.)
EXPAND
Emergency Support Functions (ESF) Department/Agency*
1. TRANSPORTATION (P/S) County Road Dept.
(P/S) City Public Works
2. COMMUNICATIONS (P) County 911/Dispatch
(S) Emergency Management
3. PUBLIC WORKS & ENGINEERING (P/S) County Road Dept.
(P/S) City Public Works
4. FIREFIGHTING (P/S) County Fire Department
(P/S) City Fire Department
5. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) Cherokee Sheriff
6. MASS CARE, HOUSING, & HUMAN SERVICES (P) County DFACS
(S) Red Cross Chapter
7. RESOURCE SUPPORT (P) County Emergency Management
(S) County/City Government
8. PUBLIC HEALTH & MEDICAL SERVICES (P) County Public Health
(S) Local Hospital(s)
9. SEARCH & RESCUE (P/S) County Fire Department
(P/S) City Fire/Rescue
10. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (P/S) County Fire Department
(P/S) City Fire Department
11. AGRICULTURAL & NATURAL RESOURCES (P) County Extension Agent
(S) County Emergency Management Agency
12. ENERGY (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) Local Utilities
13. PUBLIC SAFETY & SECURITY SERVICES (P/S) County Sheriff
(P/S) City Police Department
14. LONG TERM RECOVERY & MITIGATION (P) County Emergency Management Agency
(S) County Government
15. EXTERNAL AFFAIRS (P/S) County Government (PIO)
(P/S) City Government (PIO)
(* As appropriate to the local organization, these functions can be assigned to existing departments or may be separate. Functions should be assigned consistent with the local emergency operations plan.)
  Heads of county departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to the emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes and/or SOPs will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to appropriate local officials for approval.
(d)
Powers during an emergency or disaster. In the event of a manmade or natural disaster or any other emergency which may effect the lives and property of the citizens of Cherokee County, Georgia the Chairperson for the Cherokee County, Georgia Commissioners separately, or jointly with the Mayor of Cherokee County City(ies), or in their absence their legally appointed successors may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such periods as such emergency or disaster continues, the following powers:
(1)
To appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, and to obtain and distribute equipment, materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes;
(2)
To provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to the victims of any emergency or disaster resulting from man-made or natural causes or enemy attack and to direct and coordinate the development of emergency management plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans set by the federal and state emergency management agencies;
(3)
To appoint, employ, remove, or provide, with or without compensation, chiefs of services, warning personnel, rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police personnel, and other emergency management workers;
(4)
To establish a primary and one or more secondary control centers to serve as command posts during an emergency or disaster;
(5)
Subject to the order of the governor or the chief executive of the political subdivision, to assign and make available for duty the employees, property, or equipment of the subdivision relating to fire-fighting, engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, and to police, transportation, construction, and similar items or services for emergency management purposes, within or outside of the physical limits of the subdivision;
(6)
In addition to the heretofore stated powers and authorities, to acquire, temporarily or permanently, by purchase, lease, or otherwise, sites required for installation or temporary housing units for disaster victims; and to enter into whatever arrangements, including purchase, of temporary housing units and payment of transportation charges, which are necessary to prepare or equip such sites to utilize the housing units.
State Law reference— (OCGA, Georgia Emergency Management Act 1981 as Amended Chapter 3, Article 2, 38-3-27.)
(e)
Volunteers. All persons, other than officers and employees of Cherokee County, Georgia performing emergency functions pursuant to this resolution/ordinance, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees. Immunity does not apply in cases of willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith. (Chapter 3, Article 2, 38-3-35.)
(f)
Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as a misdemeanor.
(g)
Liberality of construction. This resolution/ordinance shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Ord. No. 2008-0017, 7-28-2008)
