ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC RECORDS

Sec. 2-41. - Official records of city; keeping and maintaining.
It shall be the policy of the city council to make each and every record kept and maintained by the city council and officers, agents and employees of the city available to the public for reading, inspecting, examining and copying the same, provided that those records which by order of a court of this state or by law are prohibited from being open to inspection by the public shall be exempt from the provisions of this article.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-21)
Sec. 2-42. - Custodian designated.
The city clerk is made the official custodian of the records of the city, including records made by its officers, agents and employees of every nature whatsoever.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-22)
Sec. 2-43. - Removal from city hall restricted.
The custodian of the records of the city shall not allow any person to take away from the city hall or any other place where the records are lawfully stored any records for any purpose whatsoever, unless by competent and lawful court order, except by motion of the governing body.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-23)
Sec. 2-44. - Examination or inspection.
Any person desiring to see, inspect, examine or copy any record made by any officer, agent or employee of the city or any record of the city council shall make written request and present the same in person to the city clerk, and it shall be the duty of the record custodian at that time to designate a time certain within a period of 72 hours from the date of such request when such records will be available to the applicant, provided that persons desiring to inspect records of the police and fire services departments which are open to public inspection shall present the inspection request directly to the appropriate department.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-24)
State Law reference— Inspection of public records, O.C.G.A., § 50-18-70 et seq.
Sec. 2-45. - Presence of custodian required; hours limited.
In order to preserve the authenticity and correctness of any and all records of the city, no person shall be allowed to see, inspect, examine or copy the same unless within the presence of the records custodian of the city or some person designated by the records custodian, and such examination shall be made during regular business hours when the city offices are kept open to the public.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-25)
Sec. 2-46. - Cost of certified copies.
The city shall charge for furnishing certified copies or records of the city in accordance with a fee schedule as established from time to time by the city council.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-26)
Sec. 2-47. - Records construed.
The records referred to in this article shall include not only the minutes of the city council, all contracts of the city, all ordinances and resolutions enacted by the city council, all memoranda and records kept by the city clerk of every nature whatsoever, all records of the city departments, including municipal court records and police docket, but shall also include all other records kept and maintained by any officer, agent, servant or employee of the city concerning matters pertaining to the city, except those records not open to the public inspection by order of a court of this state or by law.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-27)
Sec. 2-48. - Destruction of obsolete records.
(a)
There is established a records management committee, which shall be composed of the mayor, the mayor pro tem, the city manager and the chief of police.
(b)
The committee is responsible for records management activities and shall designate a person or officer to act for and in behalf of the city council in directing and coordinating all record management matters, including maintenance and security of records.
(c)
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedules.
(d)
Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the city council which shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the dates covered and the volume destroyed.
(Code 1989, § 2-3-28)
State Law reference— Records management programs for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99; records as public property, disposing of records other than to approved retention schedule a misdemeanor, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-102.
Secs. 2-49—2-80. - Reserved.
