ARTICLE 6. - COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES

Sec. 1-46. - Powers and duties—Generally.
The said Board of Commissioners shall exercise all the powers relative to county matters that were vested in the judge of the city court as ex-officio commissioner of roads and revenues under and by virtue of an act to constitute the judge of the city court in the County of Richmond ex-officio commissioner of roads and revenues for Richmond County; to define his powers and duties; and for other purposes, approved September 17, 1883 [see section 1-47.]
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 555, § 3)
Sec. 1-47. - Same—As specified in 1883 act.
(a)
The judge of the city court in the county of Richmond shall be ex-officio the commissioner of roads and revenues in said county, and as such shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over the following subject matters, to wit:
(1)
In directing and controlling all the property of the county as he may deem expedient according to law;
(2)
In levying all county taxes according to law;
(3)
In establishing, altering or abolishing all roads, bridges or ferries in conformity to law;
(4)
In establishing and changing election and militia districts;
(5)
In supplying, by appointment, all vacancies in county offices and in ordering elections to fill them;
(6)
In examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county;
(7)
In examining and auditing the accounts of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collection or disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and bringing them to a settlement;
(8)
In making such rules and regulations for the support of the county, for county police and patrol, for the promotion of health and quarantine as are granted by law or consistent therewith;
(9)
In appointing managers for county, state and national elections;
(10)
In regulating peddling and fixing the price of licenses therefor, in granting and issuing all licenses, the proceeds of which form or may form part of the county revenue;
(11)
In approving the bonds of all officers having the collection, custody or disbursement of county funds;
(12)
He shall have the power to appoint any person to discharge any trust authorized by his powers, where no other person is designated by law, and to regulate his compensation and take bond and security;
(13)
He is authorized and empowered to exercise all the powers that could be lawfully exercised by the justices of the inferior court when sitting for county purposes by the justices thereof at the time of the abolishment of the inferior court except as to proceedings and record in cases of lunacy, the appointment of processioners, and proceedings in cases of processioning, the taking and approving of all official bonds and qualifying of officers under dedimus from the governor, except the bonds of all officers charged by law with the collection and custody of money must be submitted to the commissioner for his approval; in binding out and apprenticing of minors, in proceedings connected with estrays, marks, brands and weights and measures, the powers and duties herein excepted to be exercised by the ordinary who shall receive such fees as are now or may hereafter be provided by law for said services;
(14)
The said commissioner shall exercise such other powers as are or may be granted by law, or are indispensable to his jurisdiction over county matters and county finances.
(b)
Said commissioner shall hold one session for county purposes at the courthouse on the first Tuesday in each and every month, and at other times as often as in his judgment the powers and duties herein conferred may require.
(c)
He shall cause to be kept a book of minutes containing his acts and doings as commissioner, a complete record of the affairs of the county; said minutes, records and vouchers for all funds of the county disbursed shall be kept in the commissioner's office in the courthouse, and subject to the inspection and examination of the grand juries at each and every term of the superior court. He shall at the spring term of the superior court make to the grand jury thereof a full and explicit report of the condition of the affairs of the county for the year preceding, and accompany said report with the statement of the receipts and disbursements for the year, and furnish any information to the grand jury they may desire concerning county matters.
(d)
The clerk of the city court shall be ex-officio clerk of said commissioner, and shall keep the minutes and records for county purposes, and perform such other duties as may be required of him as said clerk and incident to said office. The said clerk shall receive as compensation for all services where no fees are provided by law such sum as the commissioner may deem reasonable and just, not to exceed the sum of $60.00 per month.
(Ga. Laws 1883, p. 528, §§ I—IV)
Sec. 1-48. - Meetings.
Said commissioners shall hold one session for county purposes at the courthouse on the first Tuesday in every month, except the month of April 2007 and the month of April for every year thereafter, and at other times as often as in their judgment the powers and duties herein conferred may require.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 55, § 4; Ord. No. 6883 , 5-2-2006)
Sec. 1-49. - Record; annual report.
The Board of Commissioners shall cause to be kept a book of minutes containing their acts and doings as commissioners, a complete record of the affairs of the county. Said minutes, records and vouchers for all funds of the county disbursed shall be kept in the commissioners' office in the courthouse, and subject to the inspection and examination of the grand juries at each and every term of the superior court; and they shall at the spring term of the superior court make to the grand jury thereof, a full and explicit report of the condition of the affairs of the county for the year preceding, and accompany said report with a statement of the receipts and disbursements for the year, and to furnish any information to the grand jury that they may desire concerning county matters.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 55, § 5)
Sec. 1-50. - County administrator, power and authority to elect; duties, terms and conditions of employment.
Said Board of Commissioners shall have the power and authority to elect a county administrator, who shall have an office at the courthouse. The county administrator shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County for the proper administration of the affairs of the county. The terms and conditions of employment of the county administrator, and the duties of the county administrator shall be as determined by resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 555, § 6; Ga. Laws 1949, p. 310; Ga. Laws 1953 (Jan.—Feb. Sess.), p. 2548; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3562, § 2; Ga. Laws 1980, p. 4590, §§ 2, 3)
Sec. 1-51. - County attorney, power and authority to elect; duties, term, compensation, ineligibility for retirement benefits.
The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to elect an attorney-at-law who is licensed as such, and whose duty it shall be to advise and represent the said Board of Commissioners in all legal matters pertaining to the discharge of their official duties and to represent the interests of the county as said Board of Commissioners deem it proper. The term of office for said attorney shall be for one year, and he shall be elected by said board at its regular meeting in January of each year. Said attorney shall be compensated upon a fee basis or upon a fixed monthly, annually or other method of compensation as said Board of Commissioners deems to be in the best interest of the county. The county attorney shall be ineligible for membership under any existing pension or retirement laws of Richmond County.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 555, § 8; Ga. Laws 1967, p. 3032, § 10; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3562, § 3)
Sec. 1-52. - Additional attorneys, authority to employ.
The Board of Commissioners is authorized and empowered to employ additional attorneys for compensation when deemed in the best interest of the county by said Board of Commissioners, and to pay said compensation out of county funds.
(Ga. Laws 1931, p. 555, § 9; Ga. Laws 1974, p. 3562, § 4)
Sec. 1-53. - Office closing—Board of commissioners.
The Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues of the County of Richmond shall be authorized, in its discretion, to close its offices in the municipal building in the City of Augusta, where the county courthouse is located, as well as its offices in other public buildings in said county, on Saturday of each week and to keep such offices open for the transaction of business on holidays other than Sundays, New Year's Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
(Ga. Laws 1967, p. 3275, § 1)
Sec. 1-54. - Same—Other county officials.
Each of the several elected officers of Richmond County, including clerk of superior court, treasurer, tax commissioner, sheriff, ordinary and each of the solicitors general and the judges of the courts, shall likewise be authorized, in the discretion of each such officer, to close his offices on Saturdays and to remain open for the transaction of business on holidays as set forth in Sec. 1-53.
(Ga. Laws 1967, p. 3275, § 2)
Sec. 1-55. - Intent of act.
The authority hereby conferred upon the Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues is cumulative and shall not limit or modify the exercise of powers and the discharge of duties affecting the county government.
(Ga. Laws 1967, p. 3275, § 4)
