Chapter 5 - ZONING[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Note— The current Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance is maintained at the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission.

ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-5-1. - Incorporation of zoning ordinance by reference (Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance).
The comprehensive zoning ordinance of the City of Augusta and unincorporated areas of Richmond County, as adopted on March 25, 1963 and subsequently revised, consisting of section 1 through section 37, inclusive, is hereby incorporated in this section as if set out in full herein.
(a)
Re-inspection fee. A re-inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be assessed to the person responsible for the code violation. The responsible person may be the property owner or tenant. The fee is to be paid to the Planning & Development Office to help fund the cost of performing a re-inspection for code compliance. In the event the person responsible for the code violation is issued a citation to appear in Magistrate Court, the Court will be requested to collect the re-inspection fee(s) for the Planning & Development Department.
(b)
A re-inspection fee is defined as an inspection for code compliance after the person responsible for the code violation has been notified of the violation and given a time to come into compliance, and is then found not to have complied with the code. Each subsequent inspection for compliance is considered a re-inspection and the $50.00 fee is assessed.
1.
Re-inspection fees may be waived by the Unified Code Enforcement & Inspection Team Manager if:
i.
An extension request has been made in writing and a schedule of intent is provided with specific compliance times approved by the Manager.
ii.
Significant progress is made and shown to the inspector on the re-inspection visit.
iii.
A hardship has been brought to the attention of the Manager and attempts to secure assistance are pursued by the responsible party (tenant or property owner).
( Ord. No. 7556 , § 6(exh. A), 12-6-2016)
Sec. 8-5-2. - Amendments to zoning ordinance, map and subdivision regulations.
Any amendments to the Augusta-Richmond County Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance, the zoning maps, and any amendments to the Subdivision Regulations of land shall be made when the Commission determines that such a change would be in the best interest of Augusta-Richmond County.
Secs. 8-5-3—8-5-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - ROAD NAMING AND ADDRESSING

Sec. 8-5-11. - Title and purpose.
This Ordinance shall be known as the Roads and Addressing Ordinance for Augusta, Georgia. These regulations are established to provide a system of unique road names and addresses which are essential for successfully:
•
Improving the response time of fire, police, ambulance vehicles and other emergency services
•
Expediting postal and general delivery services
•
Enhancing the ability to locate a business and/or residences based on their address
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-11), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-12. - Authority.
This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred by Section 46-5-122 of The Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended, to promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Augusta, Georgia. IT-GIS is hereby assigned overall authority and responsibility for the naming of public/private roads and addressing as directed by provisions of this Ordinance.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-12), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-13. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions set forth herein shall apply to those roads, both PUBLIC and PRIVATE (including manufactured/mobile home parks, condominium developments, apartment complexes, malls, shopping plazas, strip buildings, businesses, business or office parks) and addresses which are currently or will be located within Augusta, Georgia and/or certain municipalities in Richmond County, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-13), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-14. - Resources.
This Ordinance shall conform generally to the 'Street Addressing Standards and Guidelines for the State of Georgia' and the GISOP, with changes made based on practicality and local applicability as needed. Additionally, standards issued by NENA, the FGDC, the ESRI model for local governments and the USPS shall be consulted for their applicability to Augusta's road name and addressing program.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-14), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-15. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the following terms are defined below. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in this Ordinance shall be interpreted to have the meaning in common usage and to give this Ordinance the most reasonable application.
Apartment: Unit within a building consisting of two (2) units or more for rent
Augusta: The geographical area encompassed by the borders of Richmond County, GA, excluding Fort Gordon and the cities of Hephzibah, and Blythe. Per the Augusta Charter (1996), "Augusta, GA" is the official name of the consolidated government of the City of Augusta and Richmond County
Unit Designator: The portion of the mailing address used to distinguish individual units within the same structure.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-15), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-16. - Abbreviations.
For the purpose of this Ordinance, the following abbreviations are defined below. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in this Ordinance shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this Ordinance the most reasonable application.
E 9-1-1: Emergency 9-1-1; a system used that links emergency callers with the appropriate public services.
ESRI: Environmental Systems Research Institute; a global company that provides the means for organizing and analyzing geographical information to help land planners and resource managers make well-informed environmental decisions.
FGDC: Federal Geographic Data Committee; a U. S. committee that coordinates the development of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure.
FHWA: Federal Highway Administration; agency in the U. S. Department of Transportation that supports states and local governments in the design, construction and maintenance of the Nation's highway system.
GDOT: Georgia Department of Transportation
GISOP: IT-GIS Operating Procedures Technical Guide. The document used as a guideline by the GIS Addressing Coordinator and IT-GIS that will have the authority to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying road naming and addressing which meet the intent of this Ordinance. This document may be changed periodically at the discretion of IT-GIS.
IT-GIS: The Augusta Information Technology Department, GIS Division. This department is the agency that shall assume responsibility for maintaining the road naming and addressing responsibility under this Ordinance.
MRAD: Master Road and Address Database
MUTCD: Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; standard for signs, signals and pavement markings in the United States. MUTCD is published by the FHWA.
NENA: National Emergency Numbering Association; professional organization that promotes the implementation and awareness of 9-1-1 and the international three-digit emergency communication systems.
USPS: United States Postal Service
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-16), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-17. - Consideration of new or proposed road names.
The naming of roads, particularly in new subdivisions, shall be reviewed and approved by IT-GIS per the Site Plan Regulations and Land Subdivision Regulations. Persons submitting road names that are rejected shall be notified so that changes may be made prior to the plan review process.
A)
Selection standards.
The following standards will be used in consideration of new or proposed road names. All current roads that would otherwise not meet these standards will be granted exceptions and maintain those names until changes, if considered, can be made to conform to this Ordinance. In addition to those outlined in the GISOP, the standards used are as follows:
Commission: The Augusta Commission
Building: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or equipment and requiring a separate power meter to be installed for the building to have electrical service. This will also include mobile homes or manufactured homes. For the purposes of this Ordinance, the term "building" may also include other manmade structures meeting the same requirement as in the first sentence.
Condominium: Ownership of a single unit within a structure that may include common areas and facilities.
Driveway: A private road, easement, or private right-of-way, giving access from a public road, private road, or private right-of-way, leading to a building. A driveway does not serve more than two (2) lots/buildings that have or require separate power meters to be installed for electrical service. If a driveway is said to serve more than two (2) lots/buildings, it then shall be assigned and designated with a private road name with all properties addressed along such named private road.
Frontage unit: A frontage unit is a standard interval in feet used to assign consecutive property numbers on a street or road.
GIS Addressing Coordinator: An employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of assigning addresses and approving road names as defined in this Ordinance. This person shall be designated by the Director of Augusta Information Technology and will be an employee of IT-GIS.
GIS Manager: An employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of managing the GIS department within the Information Technology Department.
House number: The number assigned by the GIS Addressing Coordinator to any building for the purpose of identification of the location.
Mailing address: The address assigned by the GIS Addressing Coordinator and used by USPS for the purpose of delivery of the United States mail. The property address and mailing address shall be the same for all buildings unless the property owners utilize a post office box for delivery of their mail.
Mobile Home: A moveable or transportable dwelling.
Mobile Home Park: Any site or parcel of land under single ownership where land or units are rented, and community utility(ies) provide for the occupancy of mobile homes.
Official Road Name: The name as designated in the complete list of all roads in Augusta and on file with IT-GIS.
Private Road: Any road, which is not maintained by GDOT and/or Augusta through the use of public funds, or is not a driveway as defined by this Ordinance.
Public Road: Any road which is maintained by Augusta and/or by GDOT.
Road: A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress. Such roads may be of various types including frontage roads, rear access roads, roads with cul-de-sacs and dead-end roads. This definition includes secondary roads, but does not include driveways.
Road Sign: A metal blade and necessary hardware used to convey a road name, block range and, where applicable, the state road number.
1)
Names of new roads or proposed changes must not duplicate, in wording, in sound or pronunciation, an existing road within Augusta regardless of distance between occurrences or in address ranges/block numbers
2)
Road names may not contain abbreviations of words, names or initials
3)
Numerical references are prohibited, such as Fifth, Ten
4)
Names of individuals will only be permitted for honorary purposes unless the individual holds a state or national significance
5)
Single alphabetical characters are prohibited
6)
Road names must be easy to pronounce and easily recognizable in emergency situations
7)
Special characters will not be permitted; periods, dashes, apostrophes, hyphens, etc.
8)
Names that may be offensive (slang, words with double-meanings) will not be allowed
9)
Road names will be continuous throughout its entire length, when feasible.
B)
Prefixes and suffixes. Directional prefixes and suffixes will be used only when necessary. If used, cardinal (North, South, East & West) directions will only be used as prefixes and ordinal (Northwest, Northeast, Southwest, & Southeast) directions will only be used as suffixes, in accordance to established baselines as outlined in the GISOP. The use of both a prefix and suffix for addresses and road names will not be permitted.
C)
Road types. Each approved road name will be required to have a road type. There shall only be one road type per road name. Road types permitted for use in Augusta, Georgia will be in compliance with the standards of the USPS. (See USPS Publication 28) IT-GIS has the authority to determine which road type(s) shall be suitable for the new or proposed name, as outlined in the GISOP. If the requested type is deemed inappropriate by IT-GIS, a new one must be chosen.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-17), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-18. - Reserving road names.
A request for road name reservation can be presented to IT-GIS for any new planned development. These road names will be reviewed and reserved in the road name inventory, if approved. Road names may only be reserved for two (2) years. Upon reaching the two year mark from date of reservation, the names will no longer be reserved, should a written extension request not be made. A new request for an additional one (1) year extension of the road name(s) reservation must be submitted to IT-GIS.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-18), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-19. - Approvals.
All proposed road names shall be reviewed and approved by IT-GIS during the site or development plan review period. Roads in new subdivisions are authorized by action of the Commission before the road names become official and signs are erected. The appropriate Geospatial Tax Map(s) shall be amended by IT-GIS to reflect all newly approved road names.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-19), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-20. - Road naming by petitions.
If property owners, tenants, or entities wish to name a road or rename an existing road, they must submit an application and petition with 66% (two-thirds) of the property owners or tenants adjoining the said road in agreement of the request for naming/renaming to IT-GIS. A nonrefundable application fee of $250 along with administrative fees must be submitted to IT-GIS prior to processing. Administrative fees may include costs for manufacturing/installation of all new signs and address reassignment. Application and administrative fees are subject to change at the discretion of IT-GIS as outlined in the schedule of fees. The road naming petition will only be presented before the Commission for final approval if all criteria are met as outlined in the GISOP.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-20), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-21. - Honorary designations.
Requests for honorary designations of Augusta roads, not owned or maintained by state or federal agencies, should be made to IT-GIS. Roads assigned an honorary designation are not officially renamed but carry a second honorary name. A nonrefundable application fee of $250 along with administrative fees must be submitted to IT-GIS prior to processing. Administrative fees may include costs for manufacturing and installation of all new signs. Application and administrative fees are subject to change at the discretion of IT-GIS as outlined in the schedule of fees. The honorary designation request will only be presented to the Commission for final approval if all criteria are met as outlined in the GISOP for honorary designation of Augusta facilities, roads and bridges.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-21), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-22. - Renaming existing roads for emergency purposes.
Roads (public or private) may be changed by IT-GIS as necessary for health, safety and welfare reasons and efficiency of the emergency response system. Owners of adjoining properties shall be notified in writing that the change is taking place and be provided a list of proposed road names from which input shall be considered. A selection will be chosen after receiving input and be presented to the Augusta Commission for approval. For any case in which a continuous road has multiple names, IT-GIS will determine the correct name and notify owners along such road of the name change. In the event of a conflict in either road naming or addressing, IT-GIS will use its best judgment to resolve the conflict and have the responsibility of notifying the owner, E 9-1-1, USPS, and other agencies.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-22), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-23. - Temporary road names.
Temporary Road Names for events or special occasions will not be permitted.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-23), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-24. - Road name signage.
Sign location and installation shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the MUTCD (Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices) published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) under 23 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 655, Subpart F. http://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/. Road signs will contain the prefix (if used), road name, road type, suffix (if used) and block numbers. Private roads will be marked as such in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-24), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-25. - Official road name database/road book.
Road Names that are assigned to roads shall be kept in a "Road Book" and have the road characteristics for each road centerline of the master road dataset. IT-GIS shall make this information available via internet (for public use) and intranet (for internal use). IT-GIS may designate other departments and/or personnel to maintain information as it is deemed practical, and shall provide means for the designated personnel to update the Road Book accordingly.
( Ord. No. 6068 , 8-4-1998; Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-25), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-26. - Addressing applicability.
Addresses will be assigned on all roads and shall have a road sign placed on the main road or highway.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-26), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-27. - Property legal descriptions.
The adoptions and implementation of this Ordinance shall not affect the legal descriptions of any property or be used to determine legal descriptions.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-27), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-28. - Ordering of addressing components.
Components of a property address shall always be in the following order: Address Number, Address Number Suffix (if used prior to Ordinance), Directional Prefix (if any), Road Name, Road Type, Directional Suffix (if any), Unit Type Designation (if applicable), and a Unit Number (if applicable).
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-28), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-29. - Assignment and standards.
Addresses shall be determined based on the distance from the intersection of the driveway with the road and the current surrounding addresses, if compliant with this Ordinance. Additional standards used to determine addresses are as outlined and can be found in the GISOP.
A)
Multiple structures sharing driveway. If more than two (2) addressable structures access a common driveway as defined, that driveway will be assigned a private road name and all addresses will be assigned along such private road.
B)
Corner and multiple fronting parcels. Corner or double fronting parcels shall be assigned an address based on the driveway location of the intersecting road. If that entrance is not visible from that road or is inaccessible for emergency services, then the address shall be based on the road which the structure faces.
C)
Duplex/attached structures. Each unit of structure shall receive its own individual address as determined by IT-GIS. This would include townhouses and condominiums.
D)
Multiple unit structures. Separate internal units within, or associated with, residential or commercial complexes shall have an individual address and be uniquely identified by the use of a unit type. All educational, medical, residential, industrial facilities, and/or any other type of property with private roads that is sold shall not be allowed to change addressing or road names without written approval of IT-GIS. If road names or addresses are changed without approval, the property owner will be subject to fines as described in Augusta Code 8-5-40.
E)
Vacant parcels. Vacant parcels less than one acre may be pre-addressed at the discretion of IT-GIS. This pre-address shall be assigned to the center point of the parcel frontage. All other parcels will not carry an address until placement of a structure.
F)
Miscellaneous structures. Structures requiring an address for metering or permitting purposes shall be given their own individual address and a unit designator. These structures would include billboards/signs, power poles, utility assets and others.
G)
Mobile/manufactured home parks. Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout the mobile home park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the mobile home which is located on that lot and must be clearly visible from the road. If the lot is more than 50 feet from the road, the address number shall be displayed at the end of the road or easement giving access to that mobile home. Addresses are not transferrable with the mobile home.
H)
Wireless towers. Wireless towers shall be assigned one address to the tower owner. Should the tower have multiple carriers, each carrier will be assigned a suite number that will include the address of the tower owner. A sign or post which clearly indicated the address number assigned to the tower shall be located at the entry point of the road on which the tower is located.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-29), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-30. - Numbering system.
IT-GIS shall develop and maintain a uniform scaled system of numbering addresses. This addressing system shall be used in designating addresses for new and existing structures and to resolve address problems which tend to confuse the traveling public or tend to delay the response of emergency services, mail delivery and other service providers. Baselines and the point of origin shall be defined in the GISOP to include the numbering structure for Augusta, Georgia. Addressing shall generally conform to the 'Street Addressing Standards and Guidelines for the State of Georgia' and the GISOP, however; IT-GIS reserves the right to amend as needed.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-30), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-31. - Specifications and placement of address numbers.
All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable, weather resistant material. The color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted on glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible. Reflective numbers for nighttime identification are required.
Single home residential numbers should not be less than three (3) inches in height. Commercial building numbers, including educational, medical, multi-family residential, religious and industrial facilities should not be less than eight (8) inches in height. Unit designators for these facilities should not be less than three (3) inches. In all cases, a number larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does not provide adequate identification from the traveled roadway or is proportional to the building size. All numerical identifications must be easily identifiable without obstruction of view. Any dwelling or individual business located at more than 50 feet from the roadway and/or not clearly visible shall be required to have numerical posting at both the entrance or driveway and located in close proximity to the front door or entrance way.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-31), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-32. - Responsibility for placement of address numbers.
It shall be the responsibility of each and every property owner, trustee, lessee, agent and occupant of each residence, apartment building, business or industry to post and maintain, at all times, address numbers as required under this Ordinance. All addresses shall be displayed in such a way that they are unobstructed and legible from the traveled roadway.
A)
New addresses. The owner, occupant, or agent of each house, building or other structure assigned an address under the uniform numbering system shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building, or other structure within thirty (30) days after receiving notification from IT-GIS of the proper number assignment or within thirty (30) days of occupancy, whichever is sooner.
B)
Existing addresses. Further, the owner, occupant or agent of any existing house, building or other structure existing as of the date of the adoption of this Ordinance, shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building or other structure within sixty (60) days after the adoption of this Ordinance.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-32), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-33. - Changes of addresses.
If an address number is changed for any reason, IT-GIS shall be responsible for assigning the new address number. Requests for address reassignment should be made to IT-GIS. An application and administrative fees for reassignment are to be submitted for processing. Application and administrative fees are subject to change at the discretion of IT-GIS as outlined in the schedule of fees. The form shall be available online on the Augusta, GA website and at the IT-GIS office. IT-GIS has the authority to change addresses as necessary to ensure conformity throughout Augusta, GA and efficiency of the emergency response system.
Requests will be reviewed within five (5) business days for consideration and approval, but may be extended should further consideration be needed. When such a change is made, IT-GIS shall notify the building owner to make the change, USPS, Augusta, GA offices, and emergency services. The owner of the building shall post the changed address numbers within thirty (30) days of receipt of such notice. The owner/resident of the building will be responsible for notifying all suppliers and others of the address change.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-33), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-34. - Compliance.
No owner of real property shall attempt to number or fail to number the property or the principle building, if not in conformity with this Ordinance. IT-GIS shall send a written notice, to any owner not in compliance with this Ordinance, to the owner's address as stated in Augusta records, directing specific compliance with a provision of this Ordinance. If corrective measures have not been taken within thirty (30) days of the notification of violation, a person or business will be subject to enforcement fines as described in Section 8-5-40. Augusta, Georgia will not assume any responsibility for the inability of emergency services (i.e. sheriff, fire, 911 departments) to locate the property in the event of an emergency due to incorrect property identification.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-34), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-35. - Development plan requirements.
All land subdivisions that creates a new public or private road or road section in any jurisdiction within Augusta, Georgia must have a pre-approved list of road names and addresses from IT-GIS before submitting subdivision and development plans to Planning and Development. All multi-unit and multi-structure developments must submit the site plan with building layout, for unit numbering, to IT-GIS prior to occupancy. Any subdivision or site that requires new addresses will be reviewed within seven (7) business days for assignment and subject to the final development/site plan approval before release.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-35), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-36. - Business licenses.
All businesses, new or existing must have their address properly displayed in accordance to this Ordinance or a penalty will be assessed. All new businesses must have their address verified/confirmed against the MRAD before a license can be issued.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-36), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-37. - Building permits.
No permit shall be issued for any structure until the owner/developer/contractor obtains an official address assigned by IT-GIS. The owner can contact the GIS Addressing Coordinator directly to complete an address assignment request.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-37), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-38. - Certificate of occupancy.
The Certificate of Occupancy (CO) for any structure erected, repaired, or modified shall be withheld by the Planning and Development Department until the address is posted on the structure as outlined in this Ordinance.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-38), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-39. - Enforcement responsibilities.
The responsibility for the enforcement of the provisions of the Roads and Addressing Ordinance, in addition to the legal authority of Augusta, is as assigned below:
•
Augusta IT-GIS. The GIS Addressing Coordinator or any designee(s) of IT-GIS shall have the responsibility of enforcing this Ordinance and issuing citations for violations.
•
Augusta Planning & Development. The Code Enforcement division or any designee(s) or Planning & Development shall have the responsibility of enforcing this Ordinance and issuing citations for violations.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-39), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-40. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, business or property owner that violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance, with exception Section 8-5-28D, shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00, six (6) month imprisonment or both. Any person, business or property owner that violates Section 8-5-29D shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by fine not to exceed $1000.00. Each day any violation with the provisions of the Ordinance shall continue as a separate offense. In the event that violations of this Ordinance are not corrected within thirty (30) days of receiving the fine, Augusta may perform the work needed to comply and bill the property owner(s). If the bill for work performed is not paid within ninety (90) days of mailing, then a lien may be put on the property to include the cost of the work and any applicable court costs.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-40), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-41. - Appeals.
Any owner or occupant can submit an informal appeal in writing to the GIS Manager of the GIS Addressing Coordinator's road naming and/or addressing decisions within ten (10) days of the notification date. The GIS Manager shall review within reasonable time to determine if he/she will affirm, modify, or revoke the decision of the GIS Addressing Coordinator. If the appellant still finds the decision unsatisfactory, he/she may submit a formal appeal to the Commission within fifteen (15) days of the notification date. The notice of appeal should include the application and any appeal fees as applicable. The Commission shall make its final decision on the appeal, in conformity with this chapter, and it shall be final and conclusive. In the absence of an appeal within the designated timeframes, the decisions of the GIS Addressing Coordinator or GIS Manager shall be final.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-41), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-42. - Severability of provisions.
All provisions in other Ordinances for Augusta, Georgia in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed. If any provisions of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance are held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of this Ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application and to this end, the provisions of this Ordinance are severable.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-42), 8-19-2014)
Sec. 8-5-43. - Liability.
Augusta, Georgia, its officers, agents or employees, together with any person following their instructions in rendering services, are not liable for civil damages as a result of an act or omission under this Ordinance, including but not limited to, developing, adopting, operating, or implementing an addressing system or plan.
( Ord. No. 7460 , § 2(8-5-43), 8-19-2014)
