ARTICLE 6. - RIGHT-OF-WAY AT STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS

Sec. 3-5-43. - Signs required at through streets or roads.
Whenever any ordinance of Augusta-Richmond County designates and describes a through street or road, it shall be the duty of the Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer to place and maintain a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any intersection a yield sign, on each and every street or road intersecting such through street or road unless traffic at such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals; however, at the intersection of two (2) such through streets or roads or at the intersection of a through street or road and a heavy traffic street or road not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of such streets or roads as may be determined by the Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
Sec. 3-5-44. - Other intersections where stop or yield required.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where a particular hazard exists upon other than through streets or roads and to determine:
(a)
Whether vehicles shall stop at one (1) or more entrances to any such intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required; or
(b)
Whether vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different street or road at such intersection, in which event he shall cause to be erected a yield sign at every place where obedience thereto is required.
Sec. 3-5-45. - Failure to yield right-of-way at intersection.
When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right, provided that when a vehicle approaches or enters an intersection with no stop signs or other traffic-control devices from a highway that terminates at the intersection, the driver of that vehicle shall yield: the right-of-way to the other vehicle, whether the latter vehicle be on his right or left.
Sec. 3-5-46. - Failure to yield right-of-way from driveway.
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a roadway from any place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
Sec. 3-5-47. - Failure to stop while emerging from alley or driveway onto residential or business street.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or driveway within a business or residential district shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across such alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
Sec. 3-5-48. - Failure to yield right-of-way to emergency vehicle.
(a)
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of State law, or of a vehicle belonging to a federal, state or local law enforcement agency properly and lawfully making use of an audible signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a deputy Sheriff.
(b)
This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
Sec. 3-5-49. - Failure to yield for highway construction vehicle or person.
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any authorized vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a highway, street or road, within any highway construction or maintenance area indicated by official traffic-control devices.
Sec. 3-5-50. - Failure to yield for highway construction displaying amber lights.
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to an authorized vehicle actually engaged in work upon a highway whenever such vehicle displays flashing or revolving amber lights and has a permit to use such amber lights.
