ARTICLE 4. - TURNING MOVEMENTS

Sec. 3-5-25. - Authority to place devices altering normal course for turns.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer is authorized to place official traffic control devices within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law.
Sec. 3-5-26. - Authority to place restricted turn signs.
The Augusta-Richmond County Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right turn, left turn, or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
Sec. 3-5-27. - Obedience to no-turn signs.
Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn or left turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such sign.
Sec. 3-5-28. - Limitations on turning around.
The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction:
(a)
Upon any curve (improper U-turn on curve);
(b)
Upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of another vehicle approaching from either direction (improper U-turn on grade);
(c)
Where such turn cannot be made in safety and without interfering with other traffic (improper U-turn not made in safety).
Sec. 3-5-29. - Failure to yield right-of-way while turning left.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
Sec. 3-5-30. - Improper right turn.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall approach and turn as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
Sec. 3-5-31. - Improper left turn.
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at an intersection shall approach the turn in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made to the left of the center of the intersection and so as to leave the intersection or other location in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the same direction as such vehicle on the roadway being entered.
Sec. 3-5-32. - Improper starting of parked vehicle.
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
Sec. 3-5-33. - Improper turning by not being in proper position and/or using signals.
No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in sections 3-5-29 and 3-5-30 or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or change lanes or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate and timely signal in the manner provided in this Article.
Sec. 3-5-34. - Improper use of signal lights while turning.
A signal of intention to turn right or left or change lanes when required shall be given continuously for a time sufficient to alert the driver of a vehicle proceeding from the rear in the same direction or a driver of a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
Sec. 3-5-35. - Improper use of signal lights while stopping or stopped.
No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an opportunity to give such a signal.
Sec. 3-5-36. - Improper use of signal lights if flashed on one side only of parked vehicle or used as do pass signal.
The signals provided for in subsection (b) of this section shall be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from a parked position and shall not be flashed on one (1) side only on a parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or do pass signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear.
(a)
Any stop or turn signal when required in this Article shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps.
(b)
Any motor vehicle in use on a highway, street or road shall be equipped with, and a required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty-four (24) inches, or when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limits of the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen (14) feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, and also to any combination of vehicles.
(c)
This section requires a signal, when required to be given, to be given by operation of a signal lamp on certain sized vehicles. This section is intended to cover those vehicles where a hand-and-arm signal would not be seen by a following vehicle.
Sec. 3-5-37. - Improper use of hand signals.
All signals required by this Article when given hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and shall indicate as follows:
(a)
Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
(b)
Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
(c)
Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
Sec. 3-5-38. - Reserved.
