Chapter 2 - MOBILE HOMES
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 8-2-1—8-2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - TAX VERIFICATION PERMITS

Sec. 8-2-21. - Defined.
As used in this Article, the term "mobile home" means a mobile home or a relocatable home as such term are defined in subsections (a) and (b) of Section 2 of the Act known as The Uniform Standards Code for Factory-Manufactured Movable Homes Act, approved March 26, 1968 (Georgia Laws 1968, page 415); provided, however, that those mobile homes which qualify the taxpayer for homestead exemption under Georgia law shall not be considered mobile homes and subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
Sec. 8-2-22. - Persons owning or having mobile home located within Augusta-Richmond County required to obtain.
No person shall own or have located within the limits of Augusta-Richmond County any mobile home unless application for a tax verification permit shall have been made and a permit received as provided by this Article.
Sec. 8-2-23. - Occupancy of mobile home without valid permit prohibited.
No person shall occupy any mobile home as a residence or permit any other person to occupy the same as a residence unless a tax verification permit shall have been obtained as provided by this Article.
Sec. 8-2-24. - Application; permit; decal form; applicant information.
The Richmond County Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered, subject to the specific provisions of this Article, to prescribe application, permit and decal forms and thereafter to alter and change the same; and said Tax Commissioner is empowered to require that applicants furnish such information in writing as may be reasonably required to effectuate the purposes hereof.
Sec. 8-2-25. - Proof of paid taxes required of applicants.
It shall be a condition precedent to issuance of any tax verification permit required by this Article that the owner of said mobile home shall submit to the Richmond County Tax Commissioner proof that all State and local taxes theretofore accruing and payable with respect to such mobile home have in fact been paid; and, if said mobile home which is to be located or relocated is then located within any portion of the County that lies within the limits of a municipality therein, such owner shall likewise submit proof that all applicable municipal taxes have been paid before a permit may be issued.
Sec. 8-2-26. - Location or relocation permit—Required when initially locating or relocating.
(a)
Before any person shall locate or relocate a mobile home within the limits of Augusta-Richmond County, he shall apply for and obtain from the Richmond County Tax Commissioner a tax verification permit authorizing such location or relocation if such mobile home is to be used as a residence by the owner thereof, as a residence for others, or for any other purposes.
(b)
No person shall hereafter initially locate any mobile home or relocate any mobile home within the limits of Augusta-Richmond County without having made such application and having obtained such permit.
Sec. 8-2-27. - Same—Required when changing location within Augusta-Richmond County or relocating outside Augusta-Richmond County.
The owner of a mobile home used as a residence which is located within the limits of the County may not relocate such mobile home, or cause same to be relocated, within the confines of the County or beyond such confines without first obtaining a tax verification relocation permit from the aforesaid Tax Commissioner authorizing such relocation.
Sec. 8-2-28. - Same—Fee; issuance of permit and decal; placement of decal.
(a)
Each application for a tax verification moving permit required by this Article shall be accompanied by a fee of five dollars ($5.00), which shall be paid to the Tax Commissioner before such permit shall be issued.
(b)
Any owner of a mobile home who has made application for the location or relocation of a mobile home and whose application meets the qualifications of this Article shall be issued a tax verification permit and shall likewise be issued a decal. The decal to be issued with a tax verification permit authorizing location of a mobile home within Augusta-Richmond County shall be same color as prescribed by State law and shall be affixed to the mobile home at all times it is being used as a residence within the confines of such County. The decal issued with the tax verification permit authorizing relocation of a mobile home shall be red in color and shall be affixed to the mobile home at all times such mobile home is being transported within the confines of this State. Such decals shall be designed in such manner and affixed to mobile homes in such manner as to cause them to be easily visible for inspection.
Sec. 8-2-29. - Same—Notice to Augusta-Richmond County of destination whenever relocation outside Augusta-Richmond County authorized.
Whenever a tax verification permit authorizing the relocation of a mobile home is issued and such mobile home is to be relocated within the confines of another county in this State, the Richmond County Tax Commissioner shall notify the tax commissioner of such other county of the date of the issuance of such permit.
Sec. 8-2-30. - Annual permits for continued location required; fee; issuance of permit and decal; placement of decal.
Each year every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation under the revisions of this Article shall, from January 1 to on or before May 1, make application to the Tax Commissioner for a mobile home location permit, and upon payment of the fee of three dollars ($3.00) and proof of payment of taxes as provided in Section 8-2-25, shall be issued a location permit. The issuance of said permit by the Tax Commissioner shall be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, the color of which shall be prescribed for each year by the Department of Revenue. Each decal shall reflect the county of issuance and the calendar year for which such permit is issued. The decal shall be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.
Sec. 8-2-31. - Zoning requirements not superseded by permit issuance.
The issuance of any tax verification permit under the provisions of this Article shall in no way be construed as superseding the requirements for the location of mobile homes as the same may be contained within appropriate resolutions or other actions of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning and Zoning Commission, and the issuance of a tax verification permit under the provisions of this Article shall not prohibit said Planning and Zoning Commission from requiring a relocation of the mobile home to a place where such mobile home is permitted by the regulations of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning and Zoning Commission, but in such case the owner of such mobile home shall apply for and obtain a permit for such relocation as if such relocation were the result of his own initiative.
Sec. 8-2-32. - Payment of fees into treasury.
All sums collected by the Tax Commissioner under provisions of this Article shall be paid into the Augusta-Richmond County Treasury.
Sec. 8-2-33. - Dealers required to file annual inventory.
All wholesale and retail dealers of mobile homes shall return their inventory of all mobile homes in their possession to the Tax Assessor, whether owned by them or not, on January 1 in each year.
Sec. 8-2-34. - Responsibilities of park owners, operators.
No owner or operator of a mobile home park shall permit any mobile home to be located or relocated within the confines of such park for residential use unless the tax verification permit required by this Article shall have been obtained. No owner or operator of any mobile home park shall permit any mobile home presently located within the limits of such park owned or operated by him to remain in such park unless a tax verification permit authorizing such continued location as required by this Article shall have been obtained.
Sec. 8-2-35. - Violations; penalties.
It shall be unlawful to fail to attach and display on a mobile home the decal as required by this Article; and any person who fails to attach, and display on a mobile home the decal shall be guilty of violation of this Article and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as a misdemeanor as provided in Section 1-6-1 of the Code, a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), except that upon receipt of proof of purchase of a decal prior to the date of the issuance of a citation, the fine shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
