Chapter 13 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; power of municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise without limitation or impairment by provisions of state law, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9.

Sec. 13-1. - General duty to keep premises clean.
All property owners and tenants are required to keep their houses, storehouses, stores, places of business and their premises in a sanitary condition.
(Code 1981, § 10-1)
Sec. 13-2. - County permit required for eating, drinking establishments.
All eating and drinking establishments or places in the city shall be required to secure a permit from the county health department. A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall also be required to secure a permit. No business license shall be issued an eating or drinking establishment or place or person conducting an itinerant restaurant within the city before a permit has been granted by the county health department.
(Code 1981, § 10-2)
Sec. 13-3. - Distribution of milk, dairy products without county permit prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute for consumption within the limits of the city, milk or other dairy products without having first obtained a permit from the county board of health indicating compliance with the regulation of said board of health.
(Code 1981, § 10-3)
Sec. 13-4. - Dead animals.
No person shall deposit any carcass of any dead animal upon any ground, public or private, within the city, except as provided for in this Code.
(Code 1981, § 10-6)
Sec. 13-5. - Accumulation of junk.
(a)
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery, implements, and/or equipment and personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured which hereinafter are collectively described as "said personalty," for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junk yards) within the corporate limits of the city, is hereby declared a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
(b)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, ice boxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, television and radio sets, lawn mowers, and other devices of like mature.
Junk means any abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment, or material of any kind whatsoever.
Vehicle means any device in, upon or by means of which any person or property is or may be transported.
(c)
For the purpose of this section, an article of machinery, an appliance, a vehicle, an article of equipment and other material shall be deemed to have been abandoned or discarded when it has remained upon the property in an inoperable condition for more than 30 days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
(d)
Before any person shall be convicted of violating this section, he shall be given notice in writing that he is required within 30 days from the receipt of said notice, either to:
(1)
Repair such junk and put it into operation;
(2)
Remove the same from his property; or
(3)
Furnish satisfactory proof that said property has not in fact been abandoned, and is being held for some useful purpose.
(e)
The city may also, after the expiration of 30 days from the giving of the notice required by subsection (b) of this section abate such condition as a nuisance.
(f)
This section shall not be applicable to the operation of any junk yard, salvage yard, car lot or other similar business licensed by the city where the storage and accumulation of such items are an incident to the operation of such regularly licensed businesses.
(Code 1981, §§ 10-7, 13-15)
Sec. 13-6. - Same—Abatement of nuisance by owners.
The owner, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within the corporate limits of this city upon which such storage is made, and also the owner, owners and/or lessees of said personalty involved in such storage (all of whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as owners), shall jointly abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personalty into completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes, if within the corporate limits of the city, or otherwise to remove said personalty to a location without said corporate limits.
(Code 1981, § 13-16)
Sec. 13-7. - Same—Penalties for failure of owner to abate such nuisance.
If said owners allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said nuisance after they are given notice by the city as set out in section 13-5(d)(2) to remove said personalty, they, and each of them, upon conviction thereof be punished in accordance with the section 1-13. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance is permitted to exist.
(Code 1981, § 13-17)
Sec. 13-8. - Same—Abatement by city.
(a)
Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance then the city shall remove said personalty to a location of its selection, the expense thereof to be billed to said owners, who will be jointly and severally liable for the expenses. In the event the costs of abating said nuisance are not paid, then an execution shall issue against the property owner or property for the cost of the same, provided that notice herein described affords the property owner an opportunity to be heard before the mayor and council, or a designated committee thereof, as to the necessity of any such repairs, changes or elimination. The execution issuing hereunder shall be issued, enforced, and collected in the same manner as that provided by law for the execution of ad valorem taxes due the city.
(b)
When said personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the city, as provided for herein, said personalty shall be sold by the city after the lapse of such time as is provided by law. If the proceeds of such sale are insufficient to pay the costs of abatement, said owners shall be liable to the city for the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable in a suit of law. If the proceeds are in excess of costs the balance shall be paid to said owners, or deposited in the city treasury for the use of the owners.
(Code 1981, § 13-18)
Sec. 13-9. - Nuisances.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisances which cause hurt or inconvenience to any person within the city limits.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to create, carry on, or maintain any nuisance which tends to injure or does injure or jeopardize the health of any people of the city.
(c)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators, and similar articles which have locks or latches for keeping the doors thereof tightly closed and which are large enough to permit the entrance of small children are hereby declared to be nuisances and subject as such to abolishment unless the custodian thereof shall remove the locks, latches or other similar devices in such a manner as to permit such locks or latches from operating, unless such boxes and refrigerators are stored in a secure place in such a manner as to prevent their being accessible to children. The removal of doors of such boxes, etc., shall be the equivalent of the removal of locks or latches.
Sec. 13-10. - Growth of vegetation.
The owner of any lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, within the city limits, shall not permit any grass, weeds, or wild bushes to grow to a height in excess of 24 inches upon such property or premises.
(1)
The owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed the party responsibility provided further that if on said property, lot, building, or premise there exist a building containing four, or less than four living or business units or establishments, then the occupant of such living or business units or establishments shall be deemed the responsible party. If the lease or rental agreement or contract between the owner and the occupant specifically stated or names the party responsible for the clearing or cutting of such grass, weeds, or bushes, whether he be the owner or occupant and regardless of the number of living or business units or establishments which the building or premises may contain, then such specified party shall be held responsible under this regulation. A living or business unit or establishment is hereby defined as that portion or all of a building which houses a separate and undivided family or business concern.
(2)
Upon giving not less than five days' notice in writing to a person, or his agent, if the person creating or maintaining the nuisance are non-residents of the city or of the state, if they have agents within the city or state, to abate the same; and if said nuisance within ten days after giving said notice, then the city, through any officer designated by the mayor shall abate said nuisance. The city, through such officer designated by the mayor, is authorized to employ labor and purchase material to make repairs, changes or eliminations, including the employment of labor and purchase of material, and do other things that may be necessary to abate said nuisance. In the event the costs of abating said nuisance are not paid, then an execution shall issue against the property owner or property for the cost of the same, provided that notice herein described affords the property owner an opportunity to be heard before the mayor and council, or a designated committee thereof, as to the necessity of any such repairs, changes or elimination. The execution issuing hereunder shall be issued, enforced, and collected in the same manner as that provided by law for the execution of ad valorem taxes due the city.
Sec. 13-11. - Open, dangerous wells.
It is unlawful to own or maintain open and dangerous wells in the city. The owners of all open and dangerous wells in the city must close in, cover, or otherwise abate said nuisances. Upon failure to do so, such nuisance shall be abated by authority of the mayor and council and the cost of abating same collected from the owner.
(Code 1981, § 13-20)
Sec. 13-12. - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined and imprisoned in accordance with section 1-13. Each day such violations are committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Code 1981, § 13-19)
