Chapter 10 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION

Sec. 10-1. - Fire department to answer calls in city.
The volunteer fire department of the city is hereby authorized and directed to answer all calls within the city. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to prevent the city from entering upon any special agreement or contract with dwellings located out of the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1981, § 9-1)
Sec. 10-2. - Damaging fire plugs.
It shall be a violation of this Code for any person to hit, knock down, or otherwise injure a fire plug, either from carelessness or otherwise, and, upon conviction, the violator shall be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 9-2)
Sec. 10-3. - Fire prevention code adopted; enforcement.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and city council, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the International Fire Code (ICC) with Georgia amendments of which code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the city, and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city. The provisions of the International Fire Code (ICC) with Georgia amendments adopted herein shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department of the city or the person so designated by the mayor and council.
(b)
Wherever the terms "department of fire prevention" or similar words are used in the International Fire Code, they shall be held to mean the chief of the fire department of the city.
(Code 1981, § 9-3)
Sec. 10-4. - Enforcement.
The International Fire Code with Georgia amendments adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinate officers and firemen of the fire department as are required to effectuate the provisions of said code.
(Code 1981, § 9-4)
Sec. 10-5. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the International Fire Code with Georgia amendments upon application in writing by the owner or leasee of any property, or his duly authorized agent when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code; provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be subject to the approval of the governing authority and if approved shall be entered upon the records of the fire department, and a signed copy forwarded to the applicant.
(Code 1981, § 9-5)
Sec. 10-6. - Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the International Fire Code with Georgia amendments or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall, for each such failure or violation or noncompliance, be punished as provided for in section 1-13.
(Code 1981, § 9-6)
