Chapter 16 - BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS

Sec. 16-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given herein unless more specifically defined within other sections of this chapter. When not inconsistent with the content, words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words in the single number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary.
Auxiliary intake means any piping connection or other device whereby water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
By-pass means any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant or public water distribution system.
Cross connection means any physical connection whereby the public water supply is connected with any other water supply, whether public or private, either inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation of valves or because of the ineffective check or back-pressure valves, or because of any other arrangement.
Ellijay-Gilmer Water and Sewage Authority, hereafter "authority", is a water and sewage authority and a political subdivision of the State of Georgia created by an act of the General Assembly which owns the public waterworks system which furnishes water to Gilmer County and the cities of Ellijay and East Ellijay.
Executive director means the Executive Director of the Ellijay-Gilmer County Water and Sewage Authority.
Inter-connection means any system of piping or arrangement whereby the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool, storage reservoir or other device which does or may contain sewage or other waste or liquid which is capable of importing contamination to the public water supply.
Person mean any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation organization or existing under the laws of this or any other state, city or county.
Public water supply means the authority's waterworks system furnishing water within Gilmer County for general use, including the areas furnishing water to the cities of Ellijay, and East Ellijay, and which supply is recognized as the Public Water Supply by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources/Environmental Protection Division.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-2. - Purpose.
The public water supply within Gilmer County as well as the cities of Ellijay and East Ellijay must comply with Chapter 391-3-5.13 of the Georgia Rules for Safe Drinking Water and PL 93-523 of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act. This chapter is enacted to preserve, protect and enhance the health and safety of the citizens in Gilmer County served by the authority and establish an effective Policy and Procedures for Backflow Prevention By Containment Program to control these undesirable water uses and to provide for the enforcement thereof.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-3. - General provisions.
(a)
It is the intention of the Gilmer County to affirm and grant to the authority all power and authority necessary to perform the regulation of the construction and maintenance of cross connections, auxiliary, intakes, by-passes and inter-connections affecting the public water supply.
(b)
No person shall cause a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or inter-connection to be made or allow one to exist for any purpose whatsoever.
(c)
Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public water supply, and who has also on the same premises a separate water supply or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall file with the executive director a statement, in form approved by the executive director, attesting to the non-existence of unapproved or unauthorized cross-connection, auxiliary intakes, by-passes or inter-connections. Such statement shall also contain agreement that no cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes or inter-connections will be permitted on the premises.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-4. - Inspections.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the executive director or his designee to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved, and shall be established by the executive director.
(b)
The executive director of the authority or his designee shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to public water supply for the purpose of inspecting piping system or systems thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owner or occupant of the any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agent any pertinent information regarding the piping system. Refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of a cross-connection.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-5. - Other instances where protective devices are required.
Where the nature of use of the water supplied to premises by the public water supply is such that it is deemed:
(1)
Impractical to provide an acceptable air gap separation;
(2)
That the owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system, or his designated representative, that the water use and protective features of the plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the water supply;
(3)
That the nature and mode of operation within the premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing; or
(4)
There is a likelihood that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected.
The executive director of the authority, or his designee, shall require the use of an approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure that any contamination that may originate in the customer's premises is contained therein. The protective devices shall be suitable for the service being protected and shall be of a type backflow proventer approved by the executive director as to the manufacture, model and size. The method of the installation of the backflow protective devices shall be approved by the executive director prior to installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the authority.
(1)
The installation shall be at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises.
(2)
The authority shall have the right to inspect and test the device on an annual basis or whenever deemed necessary by the executive director, or his designee.
(3)
Water service will not be interrupted to test the device without the knowledge of the occupant of the premises.
(4)
When the use of water is critical to continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property or equipment, duplicated units shall be provided to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or repair the protective device or devices.
(5)
Where only one device is installed and continuance is critical, the executive director shall notify in writing the occupant of the premises of the plans to discontinue water service and arrange for a mutually acceptable time to test and or repair the device.
(6)
The executive director shall require the occupant of the premises to make all repairs indicated promptly, and the expense of such repairs shall be done by the owner occupant of the premises.
(7)
These repairs shall be made by qualified personnel acceptable to the executive director.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-6. - Sign requirements.
The public water supply made available on the properties served by the authority shall be protected from all possible contamination as specified herein.
Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
NONPOTABLE
Minimum acceptable sign shall have red letters one inch high located on a white background.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-7. - Timeframe for compliance.
Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, by-passes, or inter-connections in violation of this policy shall be allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with the provisions of this policy. After a thorough investigation of the existing conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work the amount of time shall be designated by the executive director.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-8. - Penalty.
Whenever any person neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, the executive director shall discontinue the public water supply service at the premises upon which there is found to be a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or inter-connection, and service shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass or inter-connection has been discontinued, and any cost incurred by the authority has been reimbursed. This could include but not limited to fees for materials, labor, penalties, water loss, time, legal cost and interest, as determined by the executive director in the exercise of his reasonable discretion.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
Sec. 16-9. - Right of the director to sever cross-connection.
Whenever the public water supply is involved, and in the opinion of the executive director any cross-connection endangers or potentially endangers the public water supply, then the director shall have the right to sever the cross-connection by shutting off the public water supply to the premises.
(Res. No. 08-127, 12-11-2008)
