Chapter 10 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Local alcoholic beverage license, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2 et seq.; local regulation of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.; local regulation of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; local regulation of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETAIL SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate parking means one parking space for each 250 square feet of customer service area within the premises of the applicant.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Business area means any street length between intersections where 50 percent or more is in use for business purposes.
Church means a permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Distance shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground as measured door to door.
Family means and includes any person related to the holder of a license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity, as determined according to civil law.
Front means any person or entity that is operating under authority or agency of another.
Licensee means a person holding any class of license issued under this article.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Park means any public lands owned or controlled and operated by the county, in and upon which play facilities are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned-in locality, whether room, shop or building, wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed. Premises also includes any area or patio immediately adjacent to the main licensed facility and located on property owned or leased by such licensee.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one or more than three families customarily reside and does not include a mobile home, an apartment house having facilities for housing more than four families, a boardinghouse or roominghouse where there are five or more boarders or roomers or any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools as teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and does not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Wine and vinous liquors mean any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The terms "wine" and "vinous liquors" include but are not limited to all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The terms "wine" and "vinous liquors" do not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition of wine.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-1; Res. No. 09-022, 3-26-2009; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-3.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 10-32. - Purposes of article.
This article has been enacted in accordance with a plan designed for the purposes, among others, of:
(1)
Promoting the health and general welfare of the community;
(2)
Establishing reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sales of alcoholic beverages;
(3)
Protecting and preserve schools and churches;
(4)
Giving effect to land use and to preserve certain residential areas, with reasonable considerations being given, among others, to the character of the areas and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhoods and property values; and
(5)
Preventing undesirable persons from engaging in or having any interest in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-2)
Sec. 10-33. - Compliance with article.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages without having first complied with this article.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-3)
Sec. 10-34. - Familiarity with article.
It shall be the duty of each licensee to maintain a copy of this article on the licensed premises, and to instruct each employee as to the terms of this article. The licensee and each employee shall at all times be familiar with this article and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-4)
Sec. 10-35. - Responsibility for acts of employees and others.
A licensee is charged with the responsibility for compliance with this article by its officers, agents, servants and employees. A licensee is responsible for acts in violation of this article performed by others, other than those listed in this section, if within the knowledge of the licensee.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-5)
Sec. 10-36. - Jurisdiction.
The terms and provisions of this article shall apply only to the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-6)
Sec. 10-37. - Minimum nonalcohol related sales requirements.
A licensee issued a license under this article shall be under a responsibility to demonstrate that the business location for which the license is issued has gross sales for products other than beer, wine and malt beverages of at least 70 percent of total gross sales of the business (beer, wine and malt beverages may account for a maximum of 30 percent of gross sales of such business location). Licensees shall submit certified financial statements two months prior to the issuance of a renewal license to the board of commissioners for review. Failure to comply with this requirement will result in automatic suspension of the license until cured for not exceeding three months. Failure to cure shall result in revocation of the license. This section shall not apply to a license issued at a county-owned park.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 3-1; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 10-38. - Where sales permitted and signage permitted.
The point of sale for beer, wine and malt beverages licenses shall be compactly placed in the rear portion of the place of business which is defined as being the portion of the sales area in the place of business furthest away from the main entrance. In no event shall displays of beer, wine and malt beverages be permitted upon the front or in the windows of places of business.
No alcohol advertisements shall be visible from the road.
This section shall not apply to a license issued at a county-owned park.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 3-3; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Editor's note— Res. No. 16-078, adopted June 9, 2016, amended § 10-38 to read as set out herein. Previously § 10-38 was titled "Where sales permitted."
Sec. 10-39. - Hours of sale.
No beverage licensed for sale under this article shall be sold at any time when the sale thereof is prohibited by state law and at no time between the hours of 11:45 p.m. and 7:30 a.m. on the following day.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 4-1)
Sec. 10-40. - Prohibited activities.
(a)
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, possessed, or consumed by any person in any school building or on any school ground. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, possessed or consumed by any person in any county-owned park, except at any golf course facility owned, leased or operated by the county.
(b)
No person knowingly, directly or through another person, shall sell, cause to be sold, or permit any person in such person's employ to sell any alcoholic beverage to any person under 21 years of age.
(c)
No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, the sale of beer, wine and malt beverages as defined in this article without a valid license issued pursuant to this article.
(d)
No alcoholic beverages shall be opened or consumed on the licensee's premises, except at a farm winery or any golf course facility owned, leased or operated by the county.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-8; Ord. of 11-21-1996; Amend. of 10-14-2004, § II; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 10-41. - Penalty for violations.
(a)
Violation of any of the provisions of this article by the holder of a license issued under this article or its agents or employees, whether compensated or not, shall subject the holder of such license to suspension, revocation or probation (under such terms of probation as the board of commissioners choose) of such license.
(b)
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-9, which shall be in addition to all other remedies available, including those in this section.
(c)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, in the event of a first violation of this article with respect to the prohibited activity described in section 10-40(b), any person violating such provision shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days, and by a suspension of the license to sell beer, wine and malt beverages for a period of time not to exceed 60 days. In the event of a second violation, the person shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days, and by a permanent suspension of the license.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-10; Amend. of 10-14-2004, § III)
Secs. 10-42—10-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE
Subdivision I. - In General

Sec. 10-61. - License required.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or manufactured in the county, except under a license issued pursuant to this article by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-1)
Sec. 10-62. - Distances from certain uses.
(a)
No license for retail sales of beer, wine and malt beverages shall be issued under this article where the distance of the premises is within 100 feet of a private residence.
(b)
No license for retail sales of beer, wine and malt beverages shall be issued under this article where the distance of the premises is within 1,000 feet of any church, school or park.
(c)
No license for retail sales of beer, wine and malt beverages shall be issued under this chapter where the distance of the premises is within two and one-half miles of any existing retail outlet offering beer, wine or malt beverages located within the unincorporated portions of the county. This requirement shall not be interpreted to refer to any outlet for the retail sale of beer, wine and malt beverages located in any incorporated municipality within the county.
(d)
When a license is issued for a location which conforms to the provisions of this section at the time of issuance, licenses may continue to be issued or renewed for the same location thereafter so long as the time period between active licenses does not exceed 24 months, notwithstanding the fact that adjacent or nearby property is subsequently devoted to a use which would have precluded issuance of a license in the first instance.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 3-2; Amend. of 10-14-2004, § I; Res. No. 09-022, 3-26-2009; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 10-63. - Outstanding licenses; compliance assumed.
All licenses holding a valid license for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued by the county on October 24, 1996, at the time of the enactment of this article, and on June 9, 2016, at the time of amendment of this article, shall be deemed to have complied with all requirements as to application, issuance and location of licenses under this article.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-7; Ord. of 11-21-1996; Ord. of 2-26-1998; Res. No. 09-022, 3-26-2009; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016)
Sec. 10-64. - License categories.
The alcoholic beverage licenses which may be issued under this article are for the retail package sales of beer, wine and malt beverages.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-2)
Sec. 10-65. - Fees.
A nonrefundable application and/or renewal fee will be periodically set by the board by resolution. License fees shall be such as are specified from time to time by resolution adopted by the board of commissioners. License fees shall be payable in advance for the entire year, beginning January 1 and ending December 31, of each year. The payment of license fees shall be a prerequisite to the issuance of a license. License fees shall not be prorated for a part of a year, but the full license fee shall be payable for any part of a year. The suspension or revocation of any license granted pursuant to this article shall not entitle the licensee to a return of any portion of the license fee. This section shall not apply to a license issued at a county=owned park.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, §§ 2-3, 2-26; Ord. of 2-26-1998; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 10-66. - Licenses constitute grant or privilege.
(a)
All alcoholic beverage licenses constitute a mere grant or privilege to carry on such business during the term of the license subject to all the terms and conditions imposed by this article and related laws and other ordinances and resolutions of the county relating to such business.
(b)
All licenses issued under this article shall have printed on the front these words: "This license is a mere privilege subject to be revoked and annulled by the Board of Commissioners of Gilmer County, and is subject to any future ordinances eliminating notice and hearing prior to revocation with or without cause."
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-4)
Sec. 10-67. - Separate license for each place of business.
A person doing business at more than one place shall take out and pay for a separate license for each place of business.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-5)
Sec. 10-68. - Keeping or storing alcoholic beverages.
It shall be unlawful for any person, or licensee operating places licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages to keep, possess, or store at such licensed place of business any alcoholic beverages without appropriate, valid and current state and local licenses for such beverage.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-6)
Sec. 10-69. - Open to inspection.
Any establishment holding a license issued under this article shall at all times during the hours that the establishment is open to the public, be open to inspection by any law enforcement official, any officer of the sheriff's department or any license inspector of the county or to any person designated by the sheriff or the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-7)
Sec. 10-70. - Transfers and assignments.
Alcoholic beverage licenses issued under this article shall not be transferable or assignable to new owners, but where there is a change in the ownership of a business, the new owner or owners shall file an application as for a new license as provided by this article. Changes of business interests from one party at interest named in the original application to another party at interest named in the original application shall not be deemed a transfer of a license.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-8)
Sec. 10-71. - Alcohol consumption near licensed premises.
(a)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to open or to consume all or any part of any type of alcoholic beverage within a distance of 300 feet of any premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages under this article.
(b)
Enforcement. The sheriff's department shall be responsible for the enforcement of this section or any other person so appointed by the board of commissioners.
(c)
[Applicability.] This section shall not apply at any farm winery or golf course facility owned, leased or operated by the county.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-9; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Sec. 10-72. - Renewals.
Upon the expiration of any alcoholic beverages license by its terms, a licensee shall be required to apply for a new license for the succeeding calendar year as provided in this article for a new license, however, that under the terms of section 10-91, advertisement of the application is waived, and provided, that nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to prohibit a licensee from applying for a new license for the succeeding calendar year within a period of 60 days next prior to the expiration of his license.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-11)
Secs. 10-73—10-90. - Reserved.
Subdivision II. - Application

Sec. 10-91. - Publication of notice.
Any person desiring to obtain an alcoholic beverage license as enumerated in section 10-64, shall advertise his intention to make application to the board of commissioners for the issuance of a license. Such advertisement shall be in such form as the board of commissioners may from time to time prescribe, and shall be published for at least two consecutive publishings in the official gazette of the county. Such advertisement shall contain a statement showing the location of the proposed business, and the name of the applicant. The advertisement prescribed in this section shall not be required of applicants for licenses where the license sought is a renewal of a prior license issued to the same applicant for the same location for a business establishment which is located continuously up until the date of the application. If the same location was previously licensed to do business, but there has been a change of ownership of the business or of other interest therein, the advertisement shall be required.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-20)
Sec. 10-92. - Form; attachments.
When the advertisements required by section 10-91 have been published, the applicant shall obtain an affidavit of publication and shall attach the affidavit of publication to a written application for beer, wine and malt beverage license as enumerated in section 10-93. The application shall be in such form as shall be from time to time prescribed by the board of commissioners. The application form shall be obtained from the county administration and filed with that office. It shall be subscribed by the applicant on oath, and shall be fully and completely executed. There shall also be attached to the application a bank money order, certified check, or like remittance for the application fee in full.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-21)
Sec. 10-93. - Investigation.
When the verified application, with the affidavit of publication and payment of the license fee is filed, the county shall have up to 45 days to investigate the application and the background of the applicant. The board of commissioners shall refer the application to the sheriff's department for such investigations as the sheriff may deem necessary. The board of commissioners may seek the advice of the district attorney and law enforcement officers during its consideration of the application. Upon completion of the investigation, the board of commissioners may grant the license at its next regular meeting if it finds:
(1)
The required fee has been paid.
(2)
Application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this article.
(3)
The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation in this application.
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application.
(5)
The applicant is not disqualified under section 10-99 and has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of a state or federal offense involving a sex-related crime or drug-related or alcohol-related felony, or any crime involving moral turpitude or convicted of an attempt to commit any of the offenses mentioned in this subsection or in section 10-99, or convicted in any state of any offense in which if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of such offenses.
(6)
Applicant has not had an alcoholic beverage license or other similar license or permit denied or revoked for cause involving moral character in this county or any other city or county located in or out of this state prior to the date of application.
(7)
The building, structure, equipment, or location of such business, as proposed by applicant, would comply with all applicable laws and provisions of this article.
(8)
The applicant is at least 21 years of age.
(9)
That the applicant has not within five years of the date of the application knowingly allowed or permitted any of the specified prohibited activities as defined in this article to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such alcohol is to be located.
(10)
That on the date the business for which a license is required in this article commences, and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open.
(11)
That the proposed premises is not to be located within the distances specified in this article. Such distances shall be determined and certified as in compliance with this article by a registered land surveyor licensed by the state.
(12)
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of this county, state, or the United States.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, §§ 2-22, 2-27, 2-30; Ord. of 2-26-1998)
Sec. 10-94. - Application hearing.
At the time and place that the license is to be considered, the board of commissioners shall hear relevant evidence concerning the issuance of the license. The applicant must appear in person and may be represented by an attorney. The applicant may also have witnesses appear on his behalf. At the conclusion of the evidence, the board of commissioners shall approve or deny the applicant's license. The hearing shall occur as part of the agenda at a regularly scheduled board meeting specified in the advertisement or any continuances thereof or at a specially set called hearing.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-23)
Sec. 10-95. - Complete execution required and fingerprinting.
(a)
An application for an alcoholic beverage license shall be completely and fully executed, and each question on the form provided shall be answered accurately. Failure of an applicant to furnish accurately all data, information and records required by the application form as well as failure to accompany the application with the payment of the prescribed fee or the affidavit of publication shall be deemed just cause for denying the application with prejudice.
(b)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(c), each applicant for a license shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints, which shall be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instances of criminal activity during the two years immediately preceding the date of such application. In the event of a non-resident applicant, the responsible resident shall likewise submit fingerprints. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit such fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the board of commissioners considering such application. Applicants shall appear at the Gilmer County Sheriff's Office at such times as are specified by that office for fingerprinting, and shall pay such fee as the sheriff requires for the service. The sheriff shall provide the prints to the GBI.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-24; Res. No. 09-022, 3-26-2009)
Sec. 10-96. - False information in application.
Any material omission, or untrue or misleading information contained in or left out of an original, or renewal application for any license issued under this article shall be unlawful, shall be just cause for a denial thereof, and shall be punishable as a violation of a county ordinance. If any such license has previously been granted under the above circumstances, such shall constitute cause for the revocation of the license.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-25)
Sec. 10-97. - Payment of fees and taxes.
(a)
The application and/or renewal fee must be submitted with the application to defray cost of processing and investigating the applicant.
(b)
No license shall be issued under this article unless the applicant therefor shall have fully paid all license fees and taxes, and occupation, property and ad valorem taxes due to the county. Such license fee shall be paid within 15 days after approval of the application by the board of commissioners or it shall automatically be null and void.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-26; Ord. of 2-26-1998)
Sec. 10-98. - Residency of applicant.
The applicant for a license shall be a resident of the county as a prerequisite of issuance of a license. However, if the applicant is not a resident of the county, the applicant shall designate a resident of the county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license (referred to herein as the "responsible resident"). Corporations, LLCs, partnerships and other business entities that are applying for a license, shall designate an individual shareholder, member or partner as the applicant, and if said person is not a resident of the county, shall also designate a responsible resident. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2, the responsible resident shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license, including being chargeable for violations of this article. The owner and responsible resident, by submitting an application, shall be deemed to have agreed to this responsibility and to have waived any defenses or objections to such actions.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-28; Res. No. 09-022, 3-26-2009)
Sec. 10-99. - Character.
No person shall be granted an alcoholic beverages license unless the board of commissioners shall find that such person is of good moral character, and in no event shall any license be granted to any person who has within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application entered a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or shall have suffered any conviction of any crime involving alcohol control laws of the state or the United States or any political subdivision thereof. Should any licensee, after a license has been granted under this article, be convicted or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime involving moral turpitude or to a violation of any of the laws of this state relating to alcohol, the license issued to such licensee shall stand revoked and canceled.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-29)
Sec. 10-100. - Criteria declared to be in the public interest.
In determining whether or not any license applied for under shall this article be granted, in addition to all other provisions of this article, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation, character, and mental and physical capacity to conduct business;
(2)
Whether or not applicant has violated any law or regulation relating to any alcoholic beverage business for which he may have previously held a license or in which he may have had an interest;
(3)
Any manner in which the applicant conducted the alcoholic beverage business under any prior license;
(4)
The distance of the premises on which the license is to be used from other premises.
(5)
The extent of the financial interest of the applicant in any wholesale alcoholic beverage business. It is declared to be the policy of the board of commissioners that no person which has any financial interest in any wholesale alcoholic beverage business shall also have any financial interest in any retail alcoholic beverage business, and no financial aid or assistance to any licensee under this article from any wholesales or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted;
(6)
The suitability of the premises for the conduct of an alcoholic beverage business, including its location, highway traffic problems and the difficulty or absence thereof of policing by law enforcement agencies;
(7)
The sentiments of the community in which the proposed business would be operated as far as such sentiments may be known to the board of commissioners; or
(8)
No license shall be issued, under this article, to any person who is, in fact, a front for any person as an initial applicant or whose license has been revoked or previously denied by the county commission.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-30; Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016)
Sec. 10-101. - Duty to report changes.
Whenever there shall be a change in any of the facts reported to the board of commissioners in the application for a license under this article after such license has been granted, it shall be the duty of the licensee, within three days after such change, to report the change to the board of commissioners in writing.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-31)
Sec. 10-102. - Compliance with laws.
(a)
In addition to the provisions of this article, a licensee is also charged with responsibility for adhering to any other provisions of this Code, as well as the statutes and laws of the state and of the United States relating to the operation of their business.
(b)
All applicants for licenses (in the case of pending applications) and all licensees (in the case of issued licenses) shall forthwith report to the board of commissioners any allegations of a violation of any state law or regulation or local ordinance or regulation when such allegations are made by the state department of revenue, a law enforcement officer, tax commissioner or prosecuting attorney in this state which charges the applicant or the licensee, as the case may be, with the violation of any law or regulation which could or would, in the event of a finding of guilt, result in a suspension or revocation of such license or denial or an application for such license. Similarly, an applicant or a licensee shall report to the board of commissioners all findings of such violation by any administrative agency, the tax commissioner or county which under this article could or would result in revocation or suspension of a license. Failure to make reports required by this section shall itself be grounds for suspension or revocation of or the denial of any application for a license as the board of commissioners shall determine.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-32)
Sec. 10-103. - Applicant subject to terms of article.
An applicant by filing an application for an alcoholic beverage license submits to all of the terms of this article, and agrees that he will furnish such evidence, oral or written, as the board of commissioners shall find to be reasonably necessary to the determination of the application, and such applicant further agrees by the filing of such application that if a license is issued thereon, he will comply with the terms of this article.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-33)
Sec. 10-104. - State regulations.
All licenses issued under this article shall be subject to the rules and regulations set forth in an act of the General Assembly known as the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Laws and Regulations 1986 Edition, as now or hereafter amended, to legalize and control alcoholic beverages, as now or hereafter amended, and those prescribed by the state department of revenue. Violation of these statutes shall be violations of this article.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 1-9)
Secs. 10-105—10-120. - Reserved.
Subdivision III. - Suspension; Revocation

Sec. 10-121. - Supervision or revocation by sheriff.
(a)
The sheriff shall be authorized to suspend or revoke a license previously granted under this article. If the sheriff seeks to suspend or to revoke a license, the sheriff shall give written notification to the applicant of such action and such notice shall contain a specification of the violation or violations and shall be served upon the licensee at least ten days prior to the notice of hearing. The licensee shall be given written notice of the time and place of the hearing.
(b)
The sheriff shall be authorized to suspend or revoke a license in the event of any one or more of the following:
(1)
Any licensee gave false or misleading information in the original application process;
(2)
Any licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises and/or knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of controlled substances to a minor on the premises;
(3)
Any licensee has knowingly allowed the violation of an ordinance of the county or a violation of any criminal law of the state to occur on the premises;
(4)
Any licensee has violated any provision of this article;
(5)
Any licensee has been convicted of any drug-related, or sex related crime by the state or the county regarding an offense which was committed on the premises or which would otherwise violate the provisions of this article;
(6)
Any licensee fails to pay any fee, occupation tax, fine or other amount of money due to the county under this article or any other ordinance provision of the county;
(7)
The performance of any act prohibited by this article or the failure to perform any act required by this article as well as the violation of any law, state or federal, relating to the business of the licensee. If such act, omission or violation is done by an agent, servant, employee, or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on the part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense;
(8)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee with respect to a charge of violation of any of the laws of the United States or of the state relating to alcohol, or any crime, whether a felony or not, involving moral turpitude;
(9)
The occurrence on two or more occasions within any 12-month period of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace, and other similar conduct whether such conduct is committed by the licensee or by customers or others;
(10)
Sales of beer and/or wine and/or any product covered under this article to any person under 21 years of age; or
(11)
Any other act or omission with respect to the operation of a business licensed under this article which the board of commissioners shall find to be contrary to the public interest, or which shall render the licensee or the business location unfit for the continued operation of the business.
(c)
In the event the sheriff shall suspend or revoke any license under this article, the suspension or revocation shall be for a period of not less than one day nor more than 30 days, within the discretion of the sheriff. The law enforcement officials shall forward to the county the establishments license which shall be retained as revoked by the clerk until final adjudication of the revocation or suspension of the license by the board of commissioners. Except for sales to persons under 21 years of age, the licensee shall be authorized to continue its business operations until the date of the hearing scheduled in accordance with this article. Upon charges being brought by law enforcement officials that the licensee and/or his employees have sold alcoholic beverages to a minor the license shall be retrieved by the law enforcement officials and the alcoholic beverages on the premises secured by the law enforcement officials to prevent their sale until a hearing is conducted by the board of commissioners. No applicant may apply for license during any period of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, §§ 2-50, 2-53)
Sec. 10-122. - Investigations.
The board of commissioners shall have the right to make such inquiry or investigation as it may find to be reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this article. Such investigation may consist, among other actions, of calling licensees for examination under oath, obtaining evidence under oath from other persons; their procurement of documents and records including records of the licensee, and inspection and examination of records and documents from whatever source obtainable.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-51)
Sec. 10-123. - Hearing; basis of determination.
(a)
Any alcoholic beverage license issued under this article may be revoked or suspended for a period of time by the board of commissioners for cause shown, after a hearing of which at least ten days' written notice shall be given to the licensee in person, by registered mail or by sheriff's service. Such notice shall specify the time, place and purpose of the hearing, and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held. At such hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, and both the county and the licensee shall have the right to present evidence under oath, introduce documentary evidence, cross examine witnesses and generally present evidence of violation of this article or absence thereof. Such hearing shall be conducted before the board of commissioners.
(b)
Whether a license shall be suspended or revoked, and if suspended, for what period of time, shall be determined by the board of commissioners after consideration of the evidence in the case and in accordance with the board of commissioners' finding as to the severity of the offense. Upon a determination of violation of this article by the board of commissioners, the board of commissioners may in its discretion, (i) suspend the license for a period of time up to one year, and/or (ii) revoke the temporary or permanent license and/or (iii) prosecute the violator for an offense under this article, to be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, §§ 2-52, 2-54)
Sec. 10-124. - Motion for rehearing.
Any person aggrieved by act or omission of the board of commissioners with respect to its proceedings under this article including the suspension or revocation of a license shall have the right to move for a rehearing. Such motion for rehearing shall be filed within five days after the act or omission complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the board of commissioners erred. If the motion relates to the matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing except after a grant thereof by the board of commissioners. If the matter of which complaint is made was not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the board of commissioners shall afford a hearing within ten days after the filing of the motion, of which reasonable notice shall be given to all parties known to the board of commissioners to be interested, at which person interested in protesting or supporting the act or omission of the board of commissioners shall be allowed to appear, be represented by an attorney, introduce oral and documentary evidence, and examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-55)
Sec. 10-125. - No new license to be issued after revocation.
When a license has been revoked under the provisions of this article, no application for a new alcoholic beverage license for the same location will be received for a period of 12 months and no application for a new license from the licensee involved shall be received for a period of 24 months. Revocation due to sales to persons under 21 years of age shall not be renewable or reissued for a period of 15 years.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-56)
Sec. 10-126. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any licensed establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The county may, in addition to, or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action under this article, commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining a place for the sale of beer, wine or malt beverages contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of the license granted under this article.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-57)
Sec. 10-127. - Appeals.
Appeals from the decision of the board of commissioners shall be to the superior court of the county filed within 30 days to the final action of the board of commissioners. If the applicant/licensee does not file an appeal from any decision of the board of commissioners, as provided in this section, the decision of the board of commissioners shall be final. Matters involving any golf course facility owned, leased or operated by the county shall automatically proceed to the Superior Court of Gilmer County.
(Ord. of 10-24-1996, § 2-58; Res. No. 21-001, 1-14-2021)
Secs. 10-128—10-153. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REQUIRED SIGNAGE

Sec. 10-154. - Sign—Point of sale.
At each premises subject to this article there shall be posted conspicuously at or near the cash register or other point of sale, a sign which shall state the following:
GILMER COUNTY REQUIRES YOU TO BE AT LEAST 21 YEARS OF AGE IN ORDER TO PURCHASE BEER, WINE OR MALT BEVERAGES, AND TO PROVIDE PROPER PROOF OF AGE PRIOR TO PURCHASE. PLEASE HAVE YOUR IDENTIFICATION READY TO PRESENT TO THE CASHIER.
(Amend. of 10-14-2004, § IV(3.4); Res. No. 16-078, 6-9-2016)
