Sec. 3.6.4. - Land uses.
A.
Generally. Land uses shall provide an orderly relationship and function with other uses in the development, including existing land uses. Land uses shall also be consistent with the 2018 comprehensive plan update, Riverdale's livable centers initiative (LCI) town center study, and Riverdale Zoning Ordinance. A combination of the following use types are allowed in the mixed-use district as presented in section 3.0, Uses Table 3, provided a minimum of two use types per lot, including commercial, retail, residential or office/institutional, are proposed.
B.
Commercial, office and institutional uses. The TCMU district shall consist of commercial (retail and service) uses, office uses, and institutional uses. Commercial development in this district should be limited to uses that are compatible with a traditional town center setting. Commercial establishments in TCMU districts shall be consistent with the desired character and functionality of this area as defined in sections 3.5.1 and 3.5.2 of this article.
C.
Residential uses. The TCMU shall consist of residential uses as specified in this section.
D.
Mixed-uses. Development within the TCMU District should provide a minimum of one "mixed-use" building that includes a combination one residential component and a minimum of one commercial component, or similar combination of uses that supports the intent of this district. A common example of this scenario is a building with upper floor residential units above commercial/retail-oriented uses. A combination of use types are also allowed in the TCMU District as presented in section 3.0, Uses Table 3, provided a minimum of two use types per lot or development site, including commercial, retail, residential or office/institutional, are proposed.
E.
Open space. Open space shall be required as set forth in section 3.6.5, Development standards. Mayor and council may require that any or all open space be preserved in perpetuity by a deeded conservation easement or similar approved document, owned by the city, or owned by a homeowners' association or similar body acceptable to the City of Riverdale.
F.
Allowed uses in the TCMU District are presented in the Uses Table in section 3.0.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20)
