Sec. 3.1.6.9. - Site improvements.
Site improvement standards in an MR district, including off-street parking, sidewalks, streetlights, landscaping, service and emergency vehicle access, vehicle access, refuse disposal, maintenance facilities, utilities, streets, and convenience and safety, shall be subject to the following standards:
A.
Off-street parking. All required parking shall be provided within the development and shall comply with all applicable standards for off-street parking contained in article 7, Parking and Loading. Parking spaces shall be designated spaces, specifically reserved for an individual dwelling unit. Walking distance from a dwelling unit to an associated parking space shall not exceed 200 feet.
B.
Sidewalks. Sidewalks having a minimum width of five feet shall be installed throughout the development on both sides of all public and private streets within the development and shall connect to public sidewalks at convenient and appropriate locations. In the event no public sidewalk is present, the private sidewalk shall be laid to the location of the future sidewalk as determined by the community development director. Unless otherwise provided, a landscaped area having a minimum width of five feet shall be provided between the back of curb and sidewalk. Sidewalks may be incorporated into the landscaping, but shall not displace required landscaping. See article 7, Parking and Loading.
C.
Streetlights. Pedestrian-scale lighting standards having a height of 14 and to 18 feet shall be installed at the sole expense of the developer. The number and location of such lighting standards shall be determined by the community development director.
D.
Landscaping. Landscaping plans for the development and a typical landscaping layout for individual lots in a townhouse or single-family attached development, shall be submitted to planning commission concurrent with submittal of a preliminary subdivision plat. New plant materials shall be added to the development to achieve privacy and shade, enhance curb appeal, minimize soil erosion and screen objectionable views. Landscaping of parking facilities and buffers shall comply with Article 8. Buffer and landscaping standards.
E.
Service and emergency vehicle access. Site plans shall provide for access for firefighting equipment, ambulance and emergency service vehicles and solid waste vehicles and shall be subject to approval by the Riverdale Fire Marshal and the city engineer.
F.
Vehicle access. Vehicle access to all dwelling units within a residential subdivision shall be from an internal street within the subdivision and not directly on to a collector or arterial street. Vehicle access shall generally be made from the lowest street classification available for such access. However, access to a multifamily development via a local street shall only be granted when no other street access is available. All access shall be subject to approval by the city with the exception of developments accessing a state route.
G.
Refuse disposal. Outdoor collection stations shall be enclosed and provided at central locations selected to minimize creation of a nuisance or hazard to residents. Dumpsters, compactors and any other refuse equipment shall be appropriately screened by means of a fence, wall or landscaping. In no event shall such screening exceed a height of ten feet.
H.
Maintenance facilities. Maintenance facilities shall be located in such a manner as to minimize the impact on residents.
I.
Utility installation. All utilities, including gas, electric, phone, cable, and fiber optics, shall be located underground.
J.
Streets. All streets in a condominium and townhouse development shall be built to city standards dedicated to, and accepted by, the City of Riverdale. All streets and parking areas in a multifamily development shall be privately owned and maintained by the owner.
K.
Convenience and safety. Provisions shall be made for informational signs to facilitate locating individual dwelling units within a development. Provisions shall also be made for securing mail and parcel deliveries. Parking areas, service areas, walks, steps, streets, driveways and recreational areas shall be illuminated to ensure resident safety and convenience. Lighting fixtures shall be properly designed to prevent spillover into nearby dwelling units. Minimum illumination provisions shall comply with the most current Illuminating Engineering Society Standards.
L.
Management by a professional management company providing full-time services for the management of rental housing facilities is required for all rental housing in a multi-family complex of ten units or more.
( Ord. No. 7-2020 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 10-26-20; Ord. No. 6-2021 , ยง 1(Exh. A), 11-16-21)
