Chapter 54 - PERSONNEL[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2); Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Human Resources Act.
(a)
General provisions.
(1)
Purpose. The purpose of this Act is to provide for an effective and less-costly system of human resources administration for the City of Riverdale, Georgia. This Human Resources Act shall not apply to Officials elected by the people, persons appointed by the mayor and council, contractors, and appointed members of boards, committees and commissions.
(2)
Reservation of powers of amendment. The mayor and council reserve the right in their sole and absolute discretion in the public interest to amend this Act. Any such amendment may, without limitation, reorganize, abolish, consolidate, or create departments or exempt departments, positions, or categories of positions from coverage of these policies, change positions from classified to unclassified positions, alter salary or benefits rendered after the date of such amendment, or abolish the system of human resources administration provided by this policy. Any such amendment shall apply to any then-current or future employee of the city and the service of such then-current or future employee after the date of the amendment, including all rights of compensation for services rendered after such amendment and tenure shall be governed by the amendment.
(3)
Employees to pass mental and physical standard examinations. Immediately upon the approval of this amendment, all officers and employees in the service of said city, and future employees of said city, prior to being considered by the governing body, shall pass such mental and physical standards and examinations as the mayor and council may from time to time prescribe.
(4)
Internal grievance procedure. For all actions that do not result in termination, demotion, or suspension without pay, all employees are encouraged to utilize the internal grievance procedure as outlined in the City of Riverdale's Employee Handbook. The mayor and council reserve the right to amend the employee handbook by resolution to best serve the employees of the city.
(b)
Employment at will.
(1)
Application of provisions. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to all employees of the City of Riverdale.
(2)
No property rights in employment. All positions of the City of Riverdale are excluded from civil service and employees filling any position in the city are "at will" employees. As such, no employee shall have a property interest in or expectation of continued employment. No employee shall have rights to "due process" in connection with discipline or termination. As "at will" employees, such persons may be subjected to disciplinary action in the sole discretion of the city manager, who is vested with authority over such matters.
(c)
General.
(1)
Promulgation of rules and regulations; amendments. The governing authority of Riverdale shall, by resolution, adopt rules and regulations to effectuate the at-will system. The rules and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, policies and procedures regarding the establishment and maintenance of job classifications; prescribed qualifications for personnel, compensation and benefit plans; the conduct of recruitment, examination, and registration of eligible personnel for appointment; the promotion, transfer, demotion, suspension, layoff and separation of personnel; and such other rules and regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of Riverdale and its personnel. The governing authority of Riverdale shall be authorized to amend such rules and regulations from time to time by appropriate ordinance or resolution.
(2)
Not construed as a waiver. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as a waiver of rights and responsibilities on the part of any constitutional officer or other elected official of Riverdale attendant to provisions of Georgia law and the Constitution of Georgia as the same may apply or relate to their respective offices.
( Ord. No. 09-2014 , § 1, 11-24-14; Ord. No. 07-2015 , § 1, 8-10-15; Ord. No. 01-02-2016 , § 1, 2-8-16)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 09-2014 , § 1, adopted February 8, 2016, repealed the former § 541-1, and enacted a new § 54-1 as set out herein. The former § 54-1 pertained to a merit system and derived from the Code of 1976, § 15-1.
Sec. 54-2. - Retirement.
(a)
Ordinance adopted June 4, 1962, and amended by ordinance adopted September 11, 1967, providing for old age and survivors' insurance for city personnel, as provided under the state employees' retirement system, and all amendments thereto, copies of which are on file in the office of the city clerk, is continued in full force and effect, as fully as if set out at length in this Code.
(b)
Further, all ordinances providing for the city retirement system are continued in full force and effect.
(Code 1976, § 15-2)
