Chapter 22 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; private collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste, § 50-36; taxation, ch. 54; telecommunications, ch. 58; O-I office and institutional district, § 66-291 et seq.; C-1 local commercial district, § 66-311 et seq.; C-2 general commercial district, § 66-331 et seq.; SC special commercial district, § 66-351 et seq.; I-L light industrial district, § 66-371 et seq.; I-H heavy industrial district, § 66-391 et seq.; sign regulations for AG, C-1 and C-2 commercial districts, § 66-526; sign regulations for SC commercial district, § 66-527; sign regulations for I-L light industrial district and I-H heavy industrial district, § 66-528; sign regulations for O-I office institutional district, § 66-529; cable television franchise, app. A.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 22-1—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION REGISTRATION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-31. - Required for business dealings in the county.
Each year, every person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation, except for not-for-profit or charitable organizations, in the county, whether with a location in the unincorporated areas of the county, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state, exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall register such business, trade, profession or occupation and, except for exemptions and exclusions set out in this article, shall pay an occupation registration fee for such business, trade, profession or occupation; which registration shall be kept in the place of business, if the business, trade, profession or occupation has a permanent business location in the county. If the business, trade, profession or occupation has no permanent business location in the county, such business registration shall be shown to any deputy sheriff or such other person designated for this purpose by the board of commissioners upon request.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 1 ; Ord. of 5-21-2013, § 1(exh. A) )
Sec. 22-32. - Definitions.
The words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County means the unincorporated areas of the county.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, from which the greatest amount of income is derived.
Location of office shall not include a temporary worksite which serves a single customer or project.
Occupation registration fee means a fee charged to persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for registering an occupation, profession, trade or business.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation but shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation registration fee.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-33. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 10)
Sec. 22-34. - Fee; restrictions.
(a)
An occupation registration fee shall be paid by those businesses, trades, professions and occupations and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county and/or by the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
(b)
The occupation registration fee shall be in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges and may be updated from time to time by the board of commissioners. The amount of the occupation registration fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county.
(c)
No business, trade, profession or occupation or practitioner of profession or occupation shall be required to pay more than one occupation registration fee for each of its locations. All businesses, professions, trades and/or occupations with a business location in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be required to register their business, profession, trade and/or occupation with the county, even when such businesses, professions, trades and/or occupations are not subject to payment of a registration fee and are not otherwise subject to regulation by the county.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 3)
Sec. 22-35. - Payment of fee by business with no location in the state.
Registration and assessment of an occupation registration fee is hereby imposed on those businesses, professions, trades and/or occupations with no location or office in the state, if the business's largest dollar volume of business in the state is in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the jurisdiction of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 4)
Sec. 22-36. - Dominant line of business to be identified on occupation registration form.
The occupation registration form of each business operated in the county shall identify the dominant line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 5)
Sec. 22-37. - Number of businesses considered to be operating in the county.
Where a person or entity conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of the registration fee and/or registration.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 6)
Sec. 22-38. - Practitioners practicing exclusively for a government.
No practitioner of profession or occupation or person whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall be required to register or pay an occupation registration fee for that practice.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 7)
Sec. 22-39. - When registration fee due and payable; effect of transacting business when registration fee delinquent.
An occupation registration fee shall be due for the calendar year 1998 and each succeeding calendar year thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided in this section. Beginning with the year 1999, such registration and registration fee shall be due and payable January 1 of each year and, if not paid by March 1 of each year, shall be subject to penalties for delinquency as prescribed in this article. Each business, trade, profession or occupation located in the county subsequent to the enactment of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall pay a registration fee immediately upon beginning business. The registration provided for in this section shall be issued by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 8)
Sec. 22-40. - Exemption from registration and payment of registration fee on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose.
Any organization with a tax exempt status pursuant to IRC section 501(c)(3) shall not be required to pay a registration fee pursuant to this article, and shall not be required to register as set out in this article.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 9 ; Ord. of 5-21-2013, § 2(exh. A) )
Editor's note— Section 2(exh. A) of an ordinance adopted May 21, 2013, changed the title of § 22-40 from "Exemption from payment of registration fee on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose" to "Exemption from registration and payment of registration fee on grounds that business is operated for charitable purpose."
Sec. 22-41. - Code enforcement officer.
The board of commissioners shall appoint a person who shall be its duly designated officer and inspector in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article. The board of commissioners hereby grants enforcement powers to the county sheriff, in addition to any such appointed person.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 11)
Sec. 22-42. - Businesses not required by this article to pay registration fee.
The following businesses, trades, professions and occupations shall not be required to pay a registration fee pursuant to this article, but shall be required to register such business with the county and may be assessed an occupation license fee or other type of fee or tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 46, chapter 3.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355. (Businesses that purchase carload lots of guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed or cottonseed meal and hulls.)
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state, governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 12)
Sec. 22-43. - Registration to be made on forms prescribed by the county.
Registration of businesses, trades, professions or occupations shall be accomplished by completing a form provided by the county. The individual who completes each form shall certify thereon that the information contained therein is true and complete to the best of that person's knowledge.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 13)
Sec. 22-44. - Amendment; repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the board of commissioners to assess and collect any of the fees or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and fee rates of any business, trade, profession or occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation registration fee provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the assessment or collection by the jurisdiction of additional fees upon the same person, property or business.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 14)
Sec. 22-45. - Requirement of public hearing before registration fee increase.
Subsequent to the enactment of the ordinance from which this article is derived, the board of commissioners shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the occupation registration fee as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 15)
Sec. 22-46. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation registration fee.
The board of commissioners may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation registration fee to one or more types of businesses, trades, professions or occupations as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses, trades, professions or occupations or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons therefor shall be set forth in the minutes of meetings of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-20-1998, § 16)
Secs. 22-47—22-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FORTUNETELLING, PALMISTRY AND RELATED ACTIVITIES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to prohibit, regulate or tax fortunetelling, astrology and palmistry, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.

Sec. 22-76. - Purpose and authority of article.
(a)
This article is enacted for the purpose of regulating and taxing the businesses of fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry and other kindred practices, business and professions.
(b)
This article was adopted by resolution of the board of commissioners pursuant to the authority granted under O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.
(Ord. of 5-11-1983, § I(A), (B))
Sec. 22-77. - Applicability of article provisions.
This article shall apply to those persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or other such entities which engage in the practices of fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry and other kindred practices, businesses and professions where a charge is made or a donation accepted for such services, and where the practices are carried on outside the corporate limits of a municipality.
(Ord. of 5-11-1983, § I(C))
Sec. 22-78. - Annual fee required.
In addition to complying with the occupation registration requirements as set forth in article II of this chapter, those persons, firms, partnerships, corporations or other entities engaged in the practice of fortunetelling, phrenology, astrology, clairvoyance, palmistry and other kindred practices, businesses and professions as described in this section shall obtain a license and pay an annual fee of $1,000.00 to the county.
(Ord. of 5-11-1983, § I(D)(1))
Sec. 22-79. - Display of license.
Each person, firm, partnership or corporation holding a license pursuant to this article shall display the license prominently at all times on the premises for which the license is issued.
(Ord. of 5-11-1983, § I(D)(2))
Sec. 22-80. - Location requirements.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in the above-named businesses or practices within 500 yards of any church building, school building, educational building, school grounds or college campus. As used in this section, the term "school building" or "educational building" shall apply only to state, county, city or church school buildings, and to such buildings at such other schools in which are taught subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state.
(Ord. of 5-11-1983, § I(D)(3))
Secs. 22-81—22-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) , set out provisions intended for use as Art. IV, §§ 22-81—22-89. In order to preserve the style of this Code, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as Art. IV, §§ 22-101—22-109.

Sec. 22-101. - Intent and purpose.
The intent of the board of commissioners in enacting this article is to regulate the sale of goods and services by solicitors or canvassers at residences in the county in order to diminish criminal activity in the county and abusive techniques utilized by any such solicitor or canvasser which adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare in the county. This article is not intended as a de facto prohibition of door-to-door solicitation, nor is it an attempt to adversely affect interstate commerce. Instead, this article is intended to balance competing interests, reduce criminal activity and protect the community from abusive sales techniques versus the conduct of proper commercial sales activity. This article is not intended to allow any business activity which would otherwise be unlawful.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Handbill means any printed or written material, any leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original copies of any matter or literature pertaining to any speech, whether commercial or noncommercial.
Solicitor or canvasser means any person who solicits orders or appointments on behalf of himself/herself, a firm, corporation, company, association, partnership or individual for any goods, wares, services, or merchandise or other things of value, going from house to house or other premises. Any person who obtains orders or appointments for merchandise, services, or other things of value shall be deemed a solicitor. The term solicitor or canvasser shall not mean an individual or field sales representative working for or on behalf of a bona fide charitable or nonprofit organization, or students or parents of participating in approved school-sponsored fund raisers.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-103. - Solicitor/canvasser permit.
(a)
Permit required; applicability of article.
(1)
Resident/nonresident solicitors/canvassers. All solicitors or canvassers are subject to all rules and regulations of this article.
(2)
Persons holding business license. Any applicant who has paid a business license fee or tax to Putnam County shall receive a credit of the amount so paid toward the payment of the solicitor's registration and permit fee. However, such applicant shall in all manners and all respects be subject to all other provisions of this article.
(b)
Application; investigation of applicant; grounds for denial.
(1)
No solicitor/canvasser shall be authorized to solicit orders until they file an application with the county planning and development department and obtain a permit and register as a solicitor. This application shall be upon forms prescribed by the county planning and development department. Upon application, the sheriff's office may, within ten days, shall examine the criminal record, if any, of the applicant. No permit shall be given to any applicant who shall have either a pending charge or a conviction for a crime of moral turpitude, a violation of this article, a violation of any like ordinance of any political subdivision of this state or any other state, or an offense involving the elements of assault and battery, or any civil judgment involving unethical and improper business actions, including, but not limited to, an action which would constitute fraud and deceit. Making a false statement, false writing, or misrepresentation in an applying for a permit shall constitute a violation of this article in addition to any penalty under state law for doing such.
(c)
Fee. The applicant for a solicitor's permit shall pay a fee as specified by the county planning and development department. This fee shall be used for payment of the cost of such registration, investigation, and regulation of persons subject to this article.
(d)
Term; renewal. A permit issued under this article shall be valid for the calendar year from the date the permit is issued. The permit may be renewed by filing a renewal application with the planning and development department upon forms prescribed by said department and paying a renewal fee as set out in the schedule of fees, to cover the expense of updating the investigative report.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-104. - Credentials for solicitors.
When conducting business, persons solicitating or canvassing shall carry on their persons credentials, the design of which shall be in the discretion of the county planning and development department, but which shall be uniform as to all solicitors/canvassers. Said credentials shall provide the following information: the name of the solicitor or canvasser, the name of the company, and an identification number, in large enough type to be read and seen by persons with normal or corrected vision. At all times, the solicitor or canvasser shall possess these credentials and shall produce same when requested by the owner or occupant of any premises solicited or canvassed.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-105. - Conduct of business by solicitors/canvassers; information to be provided to customers.
The planning and development department shall provide to each solicitor/canvasser with the aforementioned credentials. It is the responsibility of the solicitor/canvasser to make sufficient copies of their credentials and furnish a copy to each premises he/she visits if requested to do so.
Residents and occupants have the right to ask the solicitor/canvasser to leave the premises, and if he/she should fail to leave the premises after said instructions, he/she shall be in violation of the laws of this state and/or this article.
(1)
Failure to present credentials. It shall be unlawful for a solicitor/canvasser to fail to present their credentials to the owner or occupant of any premises where the solicitor/canvasser solicits business, or to the sheriff or any deputy sheriff when requested to do so.
(2)
Announcement to occupant. At each house or premises, the solicitor/canvasser shall announce to the owner or occupant of the home or premises his/her name and that he has been issued a permit by the county as a solicitor/canvasser, and shall announce the purpose of his call and present the credentials provided for by this section and shall allow time for the occupant or owner to read the credentials.
(3)
No solicitor/canvasser shall enter a home, edifice, or other structure without the express invitation of the occupant or owner. If a "no soliciting" sign is posted on the property of any premises, no solicitor/canvasser shall go upon said property.
(4)
Courteous conduct required; compliance with request to leave premises. A solicitor/canvasser shall at all times maintain a courteous decorum and shall not use opprobrious, vulgar or slang words to any homeowner or occupant.
(5)
Misrepresentation of effect of permit. It shall be unlawful for any solicitor/canvasser to represent by word, action or deed that the issuance of a permit by the county planning and development department in any way represents approval or condonation of either the actions of the solicitor/canvasser or his/her product.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-106. - County records of solicitors/canvassers; complaints against solicitors/canvassers.
(a)
The county planning and development department shall maintain true and accurate records of the name and identification number of each solicitor/canvasser, together with other information required by this article, and shall maintain a log of all complaints for each solicitor/canvasser or organization represented by solicitors/canvassers. Such records shall be available to the solicitor/canvasser or his company or organization and shall be deemed a public record except in cases where there is a pending case of a violation in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)
If the sheriff's office/planning and development department receives any complaints concerning a particular solicitor/canvasser, the planning and development department may suspend the permit of the solicitor/canvasser until such time as the solicitor/canvasser or organization can show cause that he or she is in compliance with the rules and regulations of this article.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-107. - Appeals by solicitors/canvassers.
A solicitor/canvasser shall have the right to file an appeal from the ruling of the county planning and development department under this article to the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-108. - Enforcement.
Enforcement authority of this article shall be vested with the sheriff's office/planning and development department.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
Sec. 22-109. - Penalties/courts of jurisdiction.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment in jail for a period not to exceed six months or both.
Prosecutions for violations of this article may be conducted in the magistrate or State Courts of Putnam County.
(Ord. of 4-1-2022(2) )
