ARTICLE V. - BOARDS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-313—2-342. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS

Sec. 2-343. - Appointment.
There may be established a board to be called the construction board of adjustment and appeals, which shall consist of four member and one alternate. The mayor may appoint the board with the advice and consent of the city council.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.1)
Sec. 2-344. - Membership.
The construction board of adjustment and appeals should consist of four members with knowledge and experience in the city's technical codes, such as, but not in limitation, design professionals, contractors or building industry representatives. In addition to the regular members, there should be one alternate member. A board member shall not act in a case in which he has a personal or financial interest.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.2.1)
Sec. 2-345. - Terms.
The terms of office of the board member shall be staggered so no more than one-third of the board is appointed or replaced in any 12-month period. The one alternate, if appointed, shall serve a one-year term. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner in which original appointments are required to be made. Continued absence of any member from required meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the applicable governing body, render any such member subject to immediate removal from office.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.2.2)
Sec. 2-346. - Quorum and voting.
A simple majority of the board shall constitute a quorum. In varying any provision of this Code, the affirmative votes of the majority present shall be required. In modifying a decision of the building official, not less than two affirmative votes shall be required. In the event that regular members are unable to attend a meeting, the alternate members, if appointed, shall vote.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.2.3)
Sec. 2-347. - Secretary of the board.
The building official shall act as secretary of the board and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for its decision, the vote of each member, the absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.2.4)
Sec. 2-348. - Powers.
The construction board of adjustment and appeals shall have the power to hear the appeals of decisions and interpretations of the building official and consider variances of the technical codes.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.3)
Sec. 2-349. - Appeal decision of building official.
The owner of a building, structure or service system, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal a decision of the building official to the construction board of adjustment and appeals whenever any one of the following conditions are claimed to exist:
(1)
The building official rejected or refused to approve the mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the installation or alteration of a building, structure or service system;
(2)
The provisions of this Code do not apply to the specific case;
(3)
An equally good or more desirable form of installation can be employed in any specific case; or
(4)
The true intent and meaning of this Code or any of the regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.4.1)
Sec. 2-350. - Variances—Authorization; findings.
The construction board of adjustment and appeals, when so appealed to and after a hearing, may vary the application of any provision of this Code to any particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this Code or the technical codes or public interest, and also finds all of the following:
(1)
That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the building, structure or service system involved and which are not applicable to others.
(2)
That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the action or inaction of the applicant.
(3)
That granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any special privilege that is denied by this Code to other buildings, structures or service systems.
(4)
That the variance granted is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the building, structure or service system.
(5)
That the grant of the variance will be in harmony with the general intent and purpose of this Code and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.4.2)
Sec. 2-351. - Same—Condition.
In granting the variance, the board may prescribe a reasonable time limit within which the action for which the variance is required shall be commenced or completed or both. In addition, the board may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this Code. Violation of the conditions of a variance shall be deemed a violation of this Code.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.4.2.1)
Sec. 2-352. - Notice of appeal.
Notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed within 30 calendar days after the building official renders the decision. Appeals shall be in a form acceptable to the building official. In the case of a building, structure, or service system, which, in the opinion of the building official, is unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous, the building official may, in his order, limit the time for such notice of appeals to a shorter period.
(Code 1979, §§ 42-5.4.3, 42-5.4.4)
Sec. 2-353. - Rules and regulations.
The board shall establish rules and regulations, for its own procedures, not inconsistent with the provisions of these procedures. The board shall meet on call of the chairman. The board shall meet within 30 calendar days after notice of appeal has been received.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.5)
Sec. 2-354. - Decisions.
(a)
The construction board of adjustment and appeals shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Each decision of the board shall also include the reasons for the decision.
(b)
If the board reverses or modifies a refusal, order, or disallowance of the building official or varies the application of any provision of this Code, the building official shall immediately take action in accordance with such decision.
(c)
Every decision shall be promptly filed, in writing, in the office of the building official and shall be open to public inspection. A certified copy of the decision shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the building official for two weeks after filing.
(d)
Every decision of the board shall be final, subject however to such remedy as any aggrieved party might have at law or in equity.
(Code 1979, § 42-5.5.1)
Secs. 2-355—2-381. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD

Sec. 2-382 - Created; purposes.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the city that will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, a planning and zoning board is created.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Sec. 2-383 - Appointment.
There is established a city planning and zoning board which shall consist of five members. The mayor may appoint the board with the advice and consent of the city council.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Sec. 2-384 - Membership.
The planning and zoning board shall consist of five members, who shall be residents of the city. The mayor may appoint the board with the advice and consent of the city council. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that the first members shall be appointed for terms concurrent with the present term of office of the council. Members appointed to the board shall serve exclusively on the planning and zoning board and shall not hold any other public office or position in the city. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the mayor and council, who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve with $50.00 per meeting compensation and may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Sec. 2-385 - Quorum and voting.
A simple majority of the planning and zoning board shall constitute a quorum.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Sec. 2-386 - Organization and rules.
The planning and zoning board shall elect its chair from among its members. The term of the chair shall be for one year with eligibility for reelection. The planning and zoning board shall appoint a vice-chair and secretary. The planning and zoning board shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning and zoning board at which official action is taken shall be open to the public as provided by law, and all records of the planning and zoning board shall be a public record.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Sec. 2-387 - Powers and duties.
The planning board shall have those powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in the city's zoning ordinance and any other ordinances of the city that delegate powers, duties or responsibilities to the board.
( Ord. of 5-6-2019 )
Secs. 2-388—2-407 - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Sec. 2-408. - Established; membership.
The zoning board of appeals is hereby established. The term "board," when used in this article, shall be construed to mean the zoning board of appeals and shall consist of three members appointed by the mayor and council for overlapping terms of three years or thereafter until their successors are appointed. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. None of the members shall hold any other public office or position in the city, except that one member may also be a member of the city planning commission.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.1)
Sec. 2-409. - Organization.
The board shall elect one of its members as chairman, who shall serve for one year or until such member is reelected or a successor is elected. Meetings of the board shall be held regularly each month and at such other times as the board may decide. The meetings may be canceled by the chairman if there are no matters to be acted upon by the board. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the building official and shall be a public record.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.2)
Sec. 2-410. - Powers and duties.
The zoning board of appeals shall have the power and duty to hear and decide applications for variances, to hear and decide appeals, and to hear and decide petitions for special exceptions, as set forth herein.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.3)
Sec. 2-411. - Variances.
(a)
The board shall hear and decide applications for variances from the city's development requirements, but only where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property, which at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived and which forms the basis for this article, was a lot or plat of record; or where, by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of a piece of property, the strict application of the city's development requirements would result in practical difficulties to, or undue hardship upon, the owner of such property.
(b)
In granting a variance, the board may attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable so that the purpose of the city's development requirements will be served.
(c)
The board shall not be authorized to grant a density variance or a use variance to permit a use in a district in which the use is prohibited.
(d)
No variance shall be authorized unless the board finds that all of the following conditions exist:
(1)
That the special circumstances or conditions applying to the building or land in question are peculiar to such premises and do not apply generally to other land or buildings in the vicinity.
(2)
That the granting of the application is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a property right and not merely to serve as a convenience to the applicant.
(3)
That the condition from which relief of a variance is sought did not result from action by the applicant.
(4)
That the authorizing of the variance will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets, increase the danger of fire, imperil the public safety, unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the surrounding areas or in any other respect impair the health, safety, comfort, morals or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.3-1)
Sec. 2-412. - Appeals.
The board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an effort in any order requirement, development or building permit decision, determination or refusal made by the enforcement officer or other administrative officials in the administration or enforcement of any provisions of this Code. Such appeals shall be in accordance with the following:
(1)
An appeal to the zoning board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any governmental officer, department, board or agency affected by any decision of the enforcement officer.
(2)
The appeal shall be made within ten days following notification of the decision appealed from, by filing with the enforcement officer a notice of appeal and specifying the grounds thereof. The enforcement officer shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(3)
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the enforcement officer certifies to the zoning board of appeals, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(4)
The appellant and any public agency or private individual shall be entitled to present evidence on matters before the board.
(5)
The board may, in conformity with this article, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and to that end shall have all the powers of the enforcement officer.
(6)
The board may direct the issuance of a permit.
It shall be the duty of the enforcement officer to carry out the decisions of the board.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.3-2)
Sec. 2-413. - Special exceptions.
The board shall hear and decide issues relating to zoning district boundary interpretations, temporary uses, and interpretation of uses not addressed in this Code; provided that any decision by the board shall impose appropriate conditions and safeguards.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.3-3)
Sec. 2-414. - Public hearings.
Within a reasonable time after receiving an application and before making a decision, the board shall hold a public hearing, then shall act on all requests for variances, appeals, and special exceptions.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.4)
Sec. 2-415. - Application for hearing.
Application for a hearing and decision on requests for variances, appeals, and special exceptions shall be filed with the enforcement officer on forms provided by the city at least 30 days prior to the meeting at which they are to be heard. Each application shall contain such information as the enforcement officer may require to enable the board to make its decision. Each application for a variance shall include a plat drawn to scale showing the following information:
(1)
All properly lines, with dimensions.
(2)
Location of buildings and other structures, creeks, and easements referenced to the property line of the tract.
(3)
North arrow, land district and land lot marker.
(4)
Location of setback lines or other dimensional requirements from which the variance is sought.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.4-1)
Sec. 2-416. - Notice of hearing.
(a)
At least 15 days, but not more than 45 days, prior to the date set by the board of zoning appeals for the hearing, a written notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city setting forth the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
(b)
At least 15 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be sent to the applicant and the owners of all properties abutting or across the street from the property with which the hearing is concerned.
(c)
In addition, the enforcement officer shall post, in a conspicuous place on the property a sign which shall contain information as to the date, time, and purpose of the hearing before the board, at least 15 days before the hearing. However, acts of vandalism or natural occurrences that limit the effectiveness of posting the property for public notice shall not void the proceedings or actions taken under this article.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.4-2)
Sec. 2-417. - Hearing procedure.
The board shall adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the public hearings as are consistent with state law and are appropriate to its responsibilities, that shall be published and available to the public, including rules on the presentation of evidence.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.4-3)
Sec. 2-418. - Assistance by enforcement officer.
The enforcement officer shall provide such technical and clerical assistance as the board may require, and shall maintain permanent and complete records of the activities of the board.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.5)
Sec. 2-419. - Fees.
To defray a portion of the costs occasioned thereby, no appeal from the decision of the enforcement officer and no application for a special exception or variance shall be entered on the docket of, heard by, or ruled by the board until there has been paid to the office of the board by the appellant, an administrative fee, which fee shall be remitted to the city clerk. No fee shall be required for an interpretation of the city's zoning regulations when there is a variation between the street layout on the ground and the street layout as shown on the zone district map. Neither the city nor any officer, agent or employee of the city acting in his official capacity, nor any agency of the county shall be required to pay a fee hereunder.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.6)
Sec. 2-420. - Bylaws.
The board shall adopt such rules for its own internal administration and procedures, including, but not limited to, conflict of interest rules, to ensure that no member is entitled to rule on or adjudicate a matter in which he has an interest directly or indirectly.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.7)
Sec. 2-421. - Decisions of the board.
The concurring vote of the membership of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the building inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter before it or to affect any variation permitted hereunder.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.8)
Sec. 2-422. - Appeals from action of the board.
Any parry aggrieved by a final judgment or decision of the board may, within 30 days thereafter, petition the superior court for a writ of certiorari in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 5-4-1 et seq.
(Code 1979, § 40-14.9)
Secs. 2-423—2-442. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - LIBRARY BOARD

Sec. 2-443. - Established; membership.
There shall be a Jasper-Pickens County Library Board consisting of nine members, three of which shall be appointed by the city council, three by the county commissioner, and three by the Pickens Area Board of Education.
(Code 1979, § 3-704)
Secs. 2-444—2-469. - Reserved.
