ARTICLE XIV. - OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL STORE TAP ROOM

Sec. 10-600. - Licensed outdoor recreational store tap room.
new
(a)
There is hereby created a license for the operation of a tap room by an outdoor recreational store, but which shall be in conformance with the laws of the State of Georgia and this article. In order to operate a tap room by an outdoor recreational store within the City of Jasper, Georgia, the store must be operated within the Central Business District (CBD) of the City of Jasper, Georgia, as defined by chapter 94 of the Code of Ordinances for the City of Jasper, and being the Jasper Zoning Ordinance, as amended. The operator shall also provide a copy of any alcoholic beverage license issued to the operator by the State of Georgia for the sale of alcoholic beverages, when issued. Applicant may receive an outdoor recreational store tap room license from the City of Jasper, Georgia, prior to the issuance of any State of Georgia license, but may not operate an outdoor recreational store tap room until such time as the applicant has received the applicable State of Georgia license, and provided a copy of said license to the City of Jasper, Georgia.
(b)
An applicant to receive an authorized outdoor recreational store tap room license shall be required to submit an application for said license based upon the wine for sale by the package application, but shall indicate thereon that applicant is applying as an outdoor recreational store tap room, and is required to meet the same requirements regarding application information, the submission of the application, distant prohibitions, and other such package requirements as provided by the Jasper Code, except as where applicable, outdoor recreational stores (operating a tap room) that front on Main Street within the Central Business District (CBD) shall be subject to the Main Street exemption provided within section 10-99 of the Jasper Code.
(c)
Under this article, the licensee of an outdoor recreational store tap room shall be authorized to carry on the business of an outdoor recreational store tap room within the Central Business District (CBD) as defined by chapter 94 of the Code of the City of Jasper. The licensee shall follow all state and Jasper Code requirements regarding the operation of an outdoor recreational store tap room, including, but not limited to, the payment of any applicable excise taxes. Failure of the licensee to operate the outdoor recreational store tap room in accordance with state and Jasper Code requirements shall be due cause for the City of Jasper, Georgia to suspend or revoke, or both, the outdoor recreational store tap room license upon compliance with the violation procedures as set forth in the City of Jasper Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance being chapter 10 of the Jasper Code of Ordinances. An authorized outdoor recreational store tap room license shall only be revoked for due cause. Due cause for the revocation of an outdoor recreational store tap room license shall consist only of violations regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages of the State of Georgia, other violations of Georgia law, an incomplete or inaccurate application for a license, and due to violations by the licensee as to provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance of the City of Jasper or other ordinances of the City of Jasper. Every unrevoked license authorizing the operation of an outdoor recreational store tap room may be renewable to the holder of a license upon the payment of fees and taxes lawfully assessed and fixed for the issuance of such licenses.
(d)
An outdoor recreational store tap room is a tap room for the retail sale of craft beer and wine for consumption on the premises by the drink, as well as growlers and wine by the package under the following conditions:
(1)
The tap room must be operated by a retail store for outdoor recreation and which shall have as its primary activity the retail sale of outdoor recreational apparel and gear, crafted goods (soaps, candles, etc.), packaged food, supplies and equipment for outdoor recreational activities. This primary activity shall be family oriented in nature, generally meaning a use which attracts a range of individuals from all age groups.
(2)
No less than 80 percent of the gross revenue of the business shall be derived from the retail sale of outdoor recreational apparel and gear and related merchandise (consumption on the premises sales must be 20 percent or less of the business' gross revenue.)
(3)
The outdoor recreational store must be located in the Central Business District (CBD).
(4)
It shall be unlawful for an outdoor recreational store tap room to sell or have on the premises spirituous liquors or packaged malt beverages.
(5)
An outdoor recreational store tap room shall be allowed to sell growlers containing craft draft beer, as long as they follow provisions as to growlers within the Jasper Alcoholic Beverage Ordinance.
(6)
Shall be allowed to serve craft draft beers by the glass for consumption on the premises only during the same hours as are permitted for the sale of "malt beverages and wine package sales." Package sales of craft draft beers other than craft draft beer growlers is prohibited. Malt beverages fees shall apply for consumption on the premises of craft draft beers.
(7)
Only the licensee or an employee shall dispense craft draft beers from a tap. Free samples of wine or craft draft beers shall not exceed five ounces of wine and eight ounces of craft draft beer nor shall any one individual be offered more than seven samples within a calendar day.
(8)
Sampling or tasting of wine or craft draft beers is only permitted within designated portions of the premises that is the tap room.
(e)
A retail establishment operating as an outdoor recreational store tap room shall provide the city clerk's office, at the time of alcohol license renewal, a statement prepared by licensee's bookkeeper or accountant of the gross sales of the business for the preceding calendar year. The statement shall include the total gross sales for the establishment and document the percentage of sales in dollars attributed to consumption on the premises as compared to the retail sale of outdoor gear and apparel and related merchandise sales. Copies of the state sales tax returns for the same period shall be attached to the statement. The statement must be properly notarized and certified to be true and correct by the licensee or his/her agent under penalty of law, and shall accompany the renewal license or his/her agent under penalty of law, and shall accompany the renewal license fee payment on or before December 31, of each year. The city reserves the right to require, for any reasons deemed necessary by the city, a certified audit for sales of all merchandise.
(f)
The license fee for an outdoor recreational store tap room license is $1,500.00. The city council for this license fee and all other alcoholic beverage license fees, shall be authorized to modify and adopt new fees by the adoption of a resolution approving a new fee schedule for such fees in a public council meeting.
(Ord. No. 2022-10 , ยง 1(d), 7-11-2022)
