ARTICLE XIII. - LICENSED DISTILLERIES

Sec. 10-500. - Licensed distilleries.
new
(a)
There is hereby created a license for the business of operating a distillery, but which shall be in conformance with the laws of the State of Georgia including, but not limited to, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-24.2 and this article. Distilleries may be operated within the City of Jasper, Georgia, within the Central Business District (CBD) of the City of Jasper, Georgia, or within other zoning districts as allowed by chapter 94 of the Code of Ordinances for the City of Jasper, and being the Jasper zoning ordinance, as amended. The operator of a distillery shall also provide a copy of any alcoholic beverage license issued to the operator by the State of Georgia for the sale of alcoholic beverages, when issued. Applicant may receive a distillery license from the City of Jasper, Georgia, prior to the issuance of any State of Georgia license, but may not operate the distillery until such time as the applicant has received the applicable State of Georgia license, and provided a copy of said license to the City of Jasper, Georgia.
(b)
An applicant to receive a distillery license shall be required to submit an application for said license based upon the distilled spirits by the package application, but shall indicate thereon that applicant is applying as a distillery, and is required to meet the same requirements regarding application information, the submission of the application, distance prohibitions, and other such other package requirements as provided by the Jasper Code, except as where applicable, distilleries that front on Main Street within the Central Business District (CBD) shall be subject to the Main Street exemption provided within section 10-99 of the Jasper Code.
(c)
Under this Article, the licensee of a distillery license shall be authorized to carry on such business within the Central Business District (CBD) or other zoning districts as allowed by chapter 94 of the Code of the City of Jasper. The licensee shall follow all state and Jasper Code requirements regarding the operation of a distillery, including, but not limited to, the payment of any applicable excise taxes. Failure of the licensee to operate the distillery in accordance with State and Jasper Code requirements shall be due cause for the City of Jasper, Georgia to suspend or revoke, or both, the distillery license upon compliance with the violation procedures as set forth in the City of Jasper alcoholic beverage ordinance within chapter 10 of the Jasper Code of Ordinances. An authorized distillery license shall only be revoked for due cause. Due cause for the revocation of a distillery license shall consist only of violations regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages of the State of Georgia, other violations of Georgia law, and incomplete or inaccurate application for a licensee, and due to violations by the licensee as to provisions of the alcoholic beverage ordinance of the City of Jasper or other ordinances of the City of Jasper. Every unrevoked license authorizing the operation of a distillery authorizing such business shall be renewable to the holder of a license upon the payment of fees and taxes lawfully assessed and fixed for the issuance of such licenses.
(d)
A distillery licensee is authorized to manufacture distilled spirits on its licensed premises and sell its products, produced or manufactured by the licensee on the licensed premises, to wholesale dealers and/or distributors and/or sales for consumption on the premises by the drink and at retail enclosed package for off-premise consumption directly to consumers, in compliance with state law and this article.
(e)
A distillery licensee is authorized to offer, for free, samples of its products, as produced and/or manufactured by the licensee on the licensed premises, to customers as a promotion for package sale. Samples shall be limited to one-half pours and shall be limited to no more than five pours per customer per day. Samples shall only be offered during normal business and/or operating hours of the licensee during which the sale of alcoholic beverages is permitted.
(f)
A distillery licensee is authorized to sell distilled spirits, as produced and/or manufactured by the licensee on the licensed premises, at retail for off-premises consumption during the same days and hours that a retail package distilled spirits licensee may sell for package sales and during the same days and hours that a retail for consumption on the premises by the drink that a retail for consumption on the premises may sell by the drink.
(g)
Smoking of any type, including cigarettes, cigars, vaping, or similar smoking activities, is prohibited within the premises of a distillery, including any exterior patio or similar area. No gaming devices, including coin-operated amusement machines, as defined and regulated by state law, are permitted in distilleries.
(h)
An operator of a distillery, when licensed, is authorized to operate a cocktail room on the premises of the distillery that would allow retail sales by the distillery to customers of the distillery's products by the drink, for consumption only on the premises. The distillery license would also allow the distillery to have package sales of its products, produced or manufactured by the licensee on the licensed premises, in the same manner as the distillery license.
(i)
Notwithstanding the foregoing in this chapter, a distillery licensee engaging in any manufacturing, wholesale, distribution, retail on-premises consumption sales, and/or retail package sales authorized by a distillery license shall comply with all regulations of the applicable general manufacturing, wholesale dealer, retail consumption dealer, and/or retail package dealer licenses provided for in this article. However, a distillery does not have to meet the food and beverage sales requirement as to the sale of prepared meals or food.
(j)
A distillery licensee is authorized to sell distilled spirits, as produced and/or manufactured by the licensee on the licensed premises, at retail for off-premises consumption or on-premises consumption during the days and hours allowed for sale by a holder of a license as to distilled spirits for consumption on the premises, by the drink.
(k)
A distillery shall provide to the city clerk's office, at the time of alcohol license renewal, a statement prepared by the licensee's bookkeeper or accountant of the gross sales of the business for the preceding calendar year. The statement shall include the total gross sales for the establishment and document the percentage of sales in dollars attributed to consumption on the premises as compared to package sales, if applicable. A copy of the state sales tax returns for the same period shall be attached to the statement. The statement must be properly notarized and certified to be true and correct by the licensee or his/her agent under penalty of law, and shall accompany the renewal license fee payment on or before December 31 of each year. The city reserves the right to require, for any reason deemed necessary, by the city, a certified audit for sales of distilled spirits.
(l)
The license fee for a distillery license is $4,000.00. The city council for this license fee and all other alcoholic beverage license fees, shall be authorized to modify and adopt new fees by the adoption of a resolution approving a new fee schedule for such fees in a public council meeting.
(Ord. No. 2021-20 , § 1(d), 9-13-2021; Ord. No. 2022-02 , § 1(d), 4-4-2022; Ord. No. 2022-05 , § 1(d), 5-2-2022)
Secs. 10-501—10-599. - Reserved.
new
