ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official or building inspector means the qualified building official or qualified building inspector as designated by the City administrator or his/her designee.
Code enforcement officer means the qualified code enforcement official as designated by the City administrator or his/her designee.
Sec. 10-2. - Technical building codes adopted by reference.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the technical building and construction codes listed in this section are adopted by reference and incorporated into this Code as if set out fully herein, including the administration and appendix chapters also contained in those codes. The state minimum codes enumerated under O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9), as now or hereafter revised or modified pursuant to state law.
(1)
International Building Code, most current edition.
(2)
International Residential Code, most current edition.
(3)
International Fire Code, most current edition.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, most current edition.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, most current edition.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, most current edition.
(7)
National Electrical Code, most current edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, most current edition.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, most current edition.
(10)
International Existing Building Code, most current edition.
(11)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, most current edition.
(12)
Gwinnett County Construction Code, most current edition.
(13)
Gwinnett County ordinance for Fire Protection and Life Safety, most current edition.
(14)
NFPA Codes and Standards, most current edition.
(15)
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code; most current edition.
(16)
International Fire Code, most current edition.
The most current edition of the foregoing codes shall be enforced by the City.
(b)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the state minimum code shall control.
(c)
A copy of each of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section, as adopted by the state, is filed in the clerk's office and available for review by the public. The same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the ordinance from which this section is derived shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the City.
(Code 1993, § 15.04.010; Ord. of 6-5-1990, § 1; Ord. of 2-3-2022(1) , § 1)
Sec. 10-3. - Enforcement; designated officials.
(a)
Within the codes cited in section 10-2, when reference is made to the duties of certain officials named therein, that designated official of the City who has duties corresponding to those of the named official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such codes are concerned shall perform such duties.
(b)
The City administrator or his/her designee, City building inspector, and the marshal are hereby authorized to enforce within the City the provisions of this chapter and the state minimum codes adopted herein.
(c)
The City administrator or his/her designee, City building inspector, and the marshal are further authorized to render interpretations of this Code and the adopted state codes and to adopt policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of their provisions. Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Such policies and procedures shall not have the force and effect of law and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this Code or in the adopted state codes.
(Code 1993, § 15.04.020; Ord. of 6-5-1990, § 3)
Sec. 10-4. - Resolution of conflicting provisions.
Any matters in the codes cited in section 10-2 which are contrary to existing ordinances of the City shall prevail, and to that extent any existing ordinances to the contrary are hereby repealed in that respect only.
(Code 1993, § 15.04.030; Ord. of 6-5-1990, § 2)
Sec. 10-5. - Tests.
The City building official or code enforcement official may require tests or test reports as proof of compliance. Required tests are to be made at the expense of the owner, or his agent, by an approved testing laboratory or other approved agency.
Secs. 10-6—10-28. - Reserved.
