Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - Title; citation; reference.
This Code shall be known as the "Dacula Municipal Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to this Code as the "Dacula Municipal Code" in any prosecution for the violation of any provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to, correction or repeal of the Dacula Municipal Code. Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, articles sections and subsections of the Dacula Municipal Code and such references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, articles, section or subsection as it appears in this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.020; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 2)
Sec. 1-2. - Reference applies to all amendments.
Whenever a reference is made to this Code as the Dacula Municipal Code or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the City codified herein, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.030; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 3)
Sec. 1-3. - Title, chapter and section headings; history notes; editor's notes and references.
(a)
Title, chapter, article and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter, article or section hereof.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.040; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 4)
Sec. 1-4. - Reference to specific ordinances.
The provisions of this Code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to or are otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included within the Code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.050; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 5)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of Code on past actions and obligations.
The adoption of this Code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations committed prior to the effective date of this Code; does not waive any fee or penalty due and unpaid on the effective date of this Code; and does not affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit posted, filed or deposited pursuant to the requirements of any ordinance.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.070; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 7)
Sec. 1-6. - Constitutionality.
It is declared to be the intention of the City council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.080; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 8)
Sec. 1-7. - References to prior Code.
References in City forms, documents and regulations to the chapters and sections of the former City Code shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained within this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1.01.090; Ord. of 6-2-1994, § 9)
Sec. 1-8. - Definitions.
The following terms and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the City and this Code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or phrases:
City. The term "City" means the City of Dacula, Georgia, or the area within the territorial limits of the City of Dacula, Georgia, and such territory outside the City, over which the City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Dacula, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Council; City council; mayor and council; governing authority or body. The terms "council," "City council," "mayor and council," "governing authority," or "governing body" means the City council of the City of Dacula. The term "all its members" or "all councilmembers" means the total number of councilmembers holding office.
County. The term "county" means the County of Gwinnett, Georgia.
Law. The term "law" denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the state, the ordinances of the City, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
May. The term "may" is permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must; shall. The terms "must" and "shall" are each mandatory.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust, organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of debt.
Preceding; following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs, or other public ways in the City which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so designated in any law of the state.
Tenant; occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Written. The term "written" includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed or otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.010)
State Law reference— Construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(5).
Sec. 1-9. - Title of office.
Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the City.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.020)
Sec. 1-10. - Interpretation of language.
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.030)
Sec. 1-11. - Grammatical interpretation.
The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of the City, unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is intended:
(1)
Gender. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter genders.
(2)
Singular and plural. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
(3)
Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.040)
Sec. 1-12. - Acts by agents.
Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the City to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.050)
Sec. 1-13. - Prohibited acts include causing and permitting.
Whenever in the ordinances of the City any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.060)
Sec. 1-14. - Computation of time.
(a)
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall also be excluded.
(b)
If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.070)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-15. - Construction.
The provisions of the ordinances of the City, and all proceedings under them, are to be construed with a view to affect their objects and to promote justice.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.080)
Sec. 1-16. - Repeal shall not revive any ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(c)
An ordinance which is in conflict in its entirety with a subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to be repealed in its entirety, even if no specific repealer is stated. If an ordinance is only partially in conflict with a subsequent ordinance, only the portion of the previous ordinance in conflict with the subsequent ordinance shall be deemed to have been repealed, even if a specific repealer is not stated.
(Code 1993, § 1.04.090)
Sec. 1-17. - Conjunctions.
In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases the terms "or" and "and" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
Sec. 1-18. - Joint authority.
All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Sec. 1-19. - Overlapping provisions.
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Sec. 1-20. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented thereby.
Sec. 1-21. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. If chapters, sections or subsections or any parts thereof are repealed by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any section of this Code shall be made by amending such section by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances of City of Dacula, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new section shall then be set out in full.
(c)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances of City of Dacula, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section, article or chapter shall then be set out in full.
Sec. 1-22. - Right of entry for inspection.
(a)
Whenever any officer or employee of the City is authorized to enter any building or premises for the purpose of making an inspection to enforce any ordinance, he may enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same, provided that he shall effect entry in the manner provided in subsection (b) of this section, except in emergency situations, or when consent of the person having charge or control of such building or premises has been otherwise obtained.
(b)
If the building or premises to be inspected is occupied, the authorized officer or employee shall first present proper credentials and demand entry; and if such building or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry. If consent to such entry is not given, the authorized officer or employee shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(c)
The ordinance codified in this section shall be controlling over any other ordinance or part of an ordinance on the same subject, whether heretofore or hereafter adopted, unless such ordinance or part of an ordinance provides differently by an express reference to said ordinance. Notwithstanding any other ordinance of the City, whether heretofore or hereafter adopted, it shall not be a violation of this section to refuse or fail to consent to an entry for inspection.
(Code 1993, § 1.08.010)
Sec. 1-23. - Violation; penalty.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" or "violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance" does not include the failure of a City officer or City employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the City or county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the City, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding 90 days, or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor; and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(e)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the City's Charter or this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1.12.010)
Sec. 1-24. - Ordinances not affected by adoption of the Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any City officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures for any City officer or City employee;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the City;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the City;
(8)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(9)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefore;
(11)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a planning commission, including joint commissions;
(12)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the City;
(14)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the City not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
(16)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing or prescribing street grades in the City;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-25. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the county commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-26. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the county commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the council without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
