Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-19—2-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-40—2-66. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ENFORCEMENT OFFICER

Sec. 2-67. - Purposes.
(a)
Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, has, from time to time adopted, and shall, in the future, from time to time, adopt, various ordinances designated to preserve, safeguard, shield or enhance the quality of life of the citizens of Fannin County, Georgia. Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, is authorized under the applicable sections of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, the Official Code of Georgia, and such laws made and provided, to enforce the terms and provisions of the various ordinances of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia. Said various ordinances provide for the enforcement, in some manner, for the provisions of said ordinances.
(b)
The board of commissioners of Fannin County, Georgia, has determined that there is a requirement to enhance and augment the enforcement provisions of the various county ordinances and to provide uniformity in both existing and future ordinances.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. I)
Sec. 2-68. - Title.
This division shall be cited as the "Enforcement Officer, Fannin County, a Political Subdivision of the State of Georgia, Duly Adopted County Ordinance."
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. III)
Sec. 2-69. - Enforcement officer.
(a)
The Fannin County board of commissioners does hereby establish the position of enforcement officer.
(b)
Said position may be held by one person or several persons as may from time to time be promulgated by the board of commissioners of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(c)
The individuals so designated by the board of commissioners of Fannin County may hold the position of enforcement officer in conjunction with any other compensated county position.
(d)
Any peace officer of the State of Georgia or of Fannin County, Georgia, shall be designated as a supplemental enforcement officer.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. IV)
Sec. 2-70. - Enforcement officer; duties/procedures.
(a)
Authorization.
(1)
The Fannin County enforcement officer(s) and/or any supplemental enforcement officer shall be authorized to issue citations to a violator or violators of any of the provisions of the various ordinances duly adopted by Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(2)
The Fannin County enforcement officer(s) shall be authorized to issue citations to any person who may own or be in possession of any property upon which any condition exists which constitutes a violation of any provision of the various ordinances of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(b)
Format. Said citations shall be on a Uniform Traffic Citation, Summons, Accusation and Warning form or such other form as may be approved by the board of commissioners.
(c)
Identification—Cited party. The enforcement officer shall list the name of the accused, as it is made known to him/her; together with the address of the accused and the phone number of the accused if available. The enforcement officer shall request the cited party to provide his/her driver's license as a means of verifying said party's identification. In the event said party is not in possession of a driver's license, the enforcement officer shall utilize the name and address supplied by the party to be cited.
(d)
Same—Offense/violation. The citation shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged by briefly describing the prohibited act. For example, it shall be deemed sufficient to state that the accused did "deposit household garbage on the right-of-way of XYZ road." The citation shall further identify the date and time that said violation is alleged to have occurred, as well as the location of the violation. The enforcement officer need not state the name of the ordinance or the specific section violated, but merely describe the offense in sufficient detail to place the accused on notice as to what prohibited act he/she is accused of having committed.
(e)
Notification as to trial. The citation shall indicate that the accused is to appear before the magistrate judge for Fannin County, Georgia, on the third Tuesday of the month following the issuance of the citation, at 2:00 p.m. There shall be a number on each citation, which shall appear on all subsequent court proceedings.
(f)
Service on accused.
(1)
Personal service.
a.
A copy of the citation shall be served on the accused by the enforcement officer. Said service shall be accomplished by providing the accused with a copy of the citation at the time that it is issued.
b.
In the event that the accused is not present at the time that the citation is issued, service can be perfected on the accused by serving a copy of the citation on the accused at such location as the accused may be found within the State of Georgia.
(2)
Nonpersonal service. In the event that an accused cannot be located within the boundaries of Fannin County, Georgia, or the State of Georgia service shall be perfected in the manner set forth in the Georgia Civil Procedures Act as to service on out-of-state parties. In addition, a copy of the citation shall be forwarded to the accused via certified mail, return receipt requested, to such address or addresses as may be found by the enforcement officer.
(g)
Signature. The citation shall be signed by the enforcement officer issuing said citation.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. V)
Sec. 2-71. - Offense.
Each violation of a county ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. VI)
Sec. 2-72. - Court procedures.
(a)
Court. Violations of any of the various ordinances of Fannin County shall be tried, upon citation or accusation, in the magistrate court for Fannin County, Georgia. Said citations or accusations shall be tried in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia, title 15, chapter 10, articles 1—12. Said hearing shall be held on the third Tuesday of the month following the issuance of the citation, at 2:00 p.m. Any modification to this hearing date must be submitted in writing to the magistrate judge.
(b)
Prosecuting attorney. Violations of any of the various ordinances of Fannin County may be tried with or without a prosecuting attorney. Said violations may be tried on accusations or citations with accompanying testimony from the enforcement officer. If a prosecuting attorney is deemed needed, on a case-by-case basis, the county attorney, or such other attorney as designated by the board of commissioners of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, shall serve as the prosecuting attorney. In the absence of a prosecuting attorney, the enforcement officer shall be authorized to serve as the prosecutor.
(c)
Other actions. Nothing in this division shall prevent the board of commissioners from bringing any civil action for injunction, mandamus, or such other proceedings as may be deemed appropriate to present, correct or abate any violation of the various ordinances of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. VII)
Sec. 2-73. - Penalty for violation of county ordinances.
(a)
Any person violating a provision of the various ordinances of Fannin County, upon conviction shall be subject to the following punishments:
(1)
A fine of not less than $50.00 or more than $500.00 for the first offense.
(2)
A fine of not less than $500.00 or more than $1,000.00 for the second offense.
(3)
A fine of not less than $1,000.00 or more than $1,500.00 for the third offense. In addition, anyone convicted of a third violation of any provision of any of the various ordinances of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, shall be confined in the Fannin County jail for a period of not less than 24 hours or more than 60 days, which is in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia Annotated section 15-10-62.
(4)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court in which a conviction is obtained, the individual may be directed to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way any litter deposited thereon. Said punishment shall not exceed five miles, on both sides of a given public street, highway or public right-of-way.
(5)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court where conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove any litter deposited thereon from any public beach or park.
(6)
In the sound discretion of the judge of the court where a conviction is obtained, the person may be directed, with the permission of the owner and the tenant in possession, if any, to pick up litter on any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he/she has deposited litter.
(7)
The punishments set out in subsection (a)(4), (5) or (6) of this section can be administered in conjunction with the punishments set out in subsection (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section.
(b)
No person accused of violating this division shall be arrested prior to a trial, but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his/her future appearance.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. VIII)
Sec. 2-74. - Severability.
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of the ordinance from which this division is derived be declared invalid for any reason, the remainder or said ordinance shall not be affected.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. IX(1))
Sec. 2-75. - Compatibility.
It is the intention of the board of commissioners of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia that this division is to be construed so as to augment any of the provisions of existing Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia, ordinances.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. IX(2))
Sec. 2-76. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this division are expressly repealed.
(Ord. of 2-28-1995, art. IX(3))
