ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Purpose, authority, jurisdiction.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and general welfare by establishing minimum development standards and administrative procedures for insuring compliance with these standards.
(b)
Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in Article XI, Section IV of the Georgia Constitution. (Ga. Code Annotated, 12-7-1)
(c)
Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to the unincorporated areas of Fannin County and to any incorporated area electing to adopt this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. I, art. I)
Sec. 42-2. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter and in order to carry out the provisions and intentions as set forth herein, certain words, terms and phrases are to be used and interpreted as defined hereafter. Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words used in the singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the singular; the word "person" includes a firm, partnership, or corporation as well as an individual; the term "shall" is always mandatory and not directory; and the word "may" is permissive. The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be constructed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access means the right to cross between public and private property, thereby permitting pedestrians and vehicles to enter and leave property.
Accessory building means a subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of a main building and located on the same lot therewith.
Addition (to an existing building) means any walled and roofed expansion to the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is connected by a firewall or is separated by an independent perimeter load bearing wall shall be considered new construction.
Alteration of a building means any change in the support members of a building except such change as may be required for its safety; an addition to a building; or of a building from one location to another.
Appeal means a request for a review of the land development officer's interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO or AH zone on a community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet, and/or where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. In the absence of official designation by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, areas of special flood hazard shall be those designated by the local community and referenced in section 42-729.
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Basement means that portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
Best management practices (BMPs) means a collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control for all rainfall events up to and including a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event. These are illustrated in the Erosion and Sedimentation Control Manual for Georgia.
Block means an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
Board means the board of natural resources.
Bond means a legal instrument with a clause which establishes a sum of money fixed as a penalty, binding the parties to pay the same; conditioned, however, that the payment of the penalty may be avoided by the performance by the parties of certain acts.
Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the supporting foundation systems.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in their natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
Buffer strip means a land area of appropriate design providing a visual and noise separation between incompatible land uses.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, including tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, mobile homes, manufactured homes and similar structures whether stationary or moveable.
Building setback line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or nonmoveable landscaping shall be placed except as otherwise provided.
Campground means a parcel of land used or intended to be used, let or rented for occupancy by campers or for occupancy by camping trailers, tents or movable or temporary dwellings, rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
Commission means the state soil and water conservation commission.
Committee means the state soil and water conservation committee.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed and within other setback areas.
County road/street means any road or street that is officially accepted by the Fannin County board of commissioners into the Fannin County road system.
Crosswalk means a right-of-way within a block dedicated to public use, intended primarily for pedestrian use, and designed to provide access to adjacent roads and lots.
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also know as excavation.
Department means the department of natural resources.
Design standards means the specifications to landowners or subdividers for the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-way, blocks, easements, and lots.
Developer means a person, firm, corporation, or legal entity submitting an application for the development of a subdivision, planned unit development, industrial park, or mobile home park and with whom final responsibility for ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter rest.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
Director means the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
District means the Blue Ridge Mountain soil and water conservation district.
Division means the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control or flood control purposes.
Driveway means a private way, beginning at the property line of a lot which abuts a public road, a private road, easement or private right-of-way, which gives access from said public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or private right-of-way and leading to a building, residence, use or structure on said lot. A driveway can serve no more than two residences.
Dwelling means a building or portion thereof, exclusive of mobile homes as herein defined, used for residential purposes.
Dwelling, multiple, means an attached building designed for occupancy by two or more families living independently of each other.
Dwelling, single-family, means a detached building designed to be occupied exclusively by one family.
Dwelling unit means one or more rooms and a single kitchen designed as a unit for occupancy by only one family for cooking, living, and sleeping purposes.
Easement means a grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the specific purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities; including, but not limited to sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainageways and gas lines.
Elevated building means a nonbasement building built to have the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls, pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a base flood.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan, good for a year from the date of issue, on all sites of 1 1/10 acres or greater which presents a complete understanding of the proposed land disturbing activity and measures to prevent soil erosion and water pollution.
Escrow means a legal agreement between a developer and Fannin County or the appropriate agency or utility in lieu of actual performance and intended to assure performance.
Existing construction means any structure for which the start of construction commenced before 1993.
Existing grade means the vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before 1993.
Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
Filling means the placement of any soil or other solid material either organic or inorganic on a natural ground surface or an excavation.
Final plat means a finished drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements of these regulations in such form as required by the local jurisdiction and showing, completely and accurately, all legal design and engineering information, and certificates necessary for recording.
Finished grade means the final grade or elevation of the ground surface forming the proposed design.
Flood means an overflow of lands not normally covered by water that results in significant adverse effects in the vicinity.
Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where the boundaries of areas of special flood hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community have been delineated.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means the official map issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency where the areas of special flood hazard have been designated as zone A.
Flood insurance study means the official report by the Federal Insurance Administration evaluating flood hazards and containing flood profiles and water surface elevations of the base flood.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding.
Floodway fringe areas means areas lying outside the floodway district but within the area that would be flooded by the regional flood.
Floodways means the natural channel and the portion of the floodplain along the channel that must be retained solely for the passage of floodwaters to prevent an undue increase in flood heights upstream. Water travels at a high velocity in the floodway.
Frontage means all the property on one side of a street between two intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or if the street is dead-ended then all the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead end street.
Functionally dependent facility means a facility which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include longterm storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
Generalized wetlands map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for Fannin County, Georgia.
Governing authority means the board of commissioners of Fannin County, a political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
Grading means altering surfaces to special elevations, dimensions, and/or slopes; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental protection Agency pursuant to the federal act, which are in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR 261.3. (This is the same definition as used in the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act.)
Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed foundation of a building.
Historic structure means any structure that is:
(1)
Listed individually in the National Register of Historic places or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements of individual listing on the national register.
(2)
Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
(3)
Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
(4)
Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
a.
By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or
b.
Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
Hydrology study means a study to estimate the base flood elevation (B.F.E.) of a flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetland determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1344, as amended.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure of surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Individual sewage disposal system means a septic tank, seepage tile, sewage disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device other than a public treatment system approved by the Fannin County health department.
Issuing authority means the governing authority of any county or municipality which has been certified by the director of the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources as an issuing authority pursuant to the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as amended.
Land development office (officer) means a department within the governing authority, which is answerable to the board of commissioners. The staffing within said office to be in accordance with the staffing of any other department within the jurisdiction of the chairman of the Fannin County board of commissioners, with the individual employees being under the direct supervision of the chairman of the Fannin County board of commissioners.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land.
Large water supply watershed means a watershed containing 100 square miles or more of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Local planning commission means the Fannin County board of commissioners until otherwise designated by the Fannin County board of commissioners.
Lot means a piece, parcel, or plot of land in one ownership, which may include one or more lots of record.
Lot area means the total surface areas of land included within the lot lines.
Lot, corner, means a lot of which at least two adjoining sides abut their full lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of two sides is less than 135 degrees.
Lot depth means the average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear line, measured in the general direction to the sidelines of the lot.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot abutting two streets.
Lot frontage means that dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
Lot, interior, means a lot other than a corner lot.
Lot lines means the boundary dividing a given lot from the street, an alley, or adjacent lots.
Lot of record means a lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in the superior court clerk's office. Or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the superior court clerk's office prior to the date of passage of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
Lot width means the width of a lot at the building setback line measured at right angles to the centerline of its depth.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, useable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not a building's lowest floor.
Manufactured home/mobile home/trailer means a detached single dwelling unit with any or all of the following characteristics:
(1)
Designed for longterm occupancy and containing sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
(2)
If the metal frame is completely removed from a unit and the unit meets the building codes, it shall be classified as a modular unit. If the entire metal frame cannot be removed, it shall be classified as a trailer (mobile home).
(3)
Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling unit including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
(4)
Designed to be freestanding and does not require a foundation for occupancy.
(5)
By chapter 46, article III, Fannin County prohibits bringing manufactured homes that are more than ten years old from the date of the original certificate of occupancy into the county.
Mean sea level means the average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain. For the purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National Geodetic Vertical Datum.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA) means a state law referenced as O.C.G.A. 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
Minimum floor elevation means the lowest elevation permissible for the construction, erection, or other placement of any floor including a basement floor.
Mobile home park means all mobile homes are subject to the Fannin County mobile home park ordinance set out in chapter 46, article II of this Code.
Mobile home space means a plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for the accommodation of not more than one mobile home of single-family occupancy.
Modular home means a factory fabricated dwelling over 32 feet in length and at least 24 feet wide designed and constructed without carriage or hitch collar, a stationary house construction for placement upon permanent foundation, to be permanently connected to utilities, for year round occupancy. It can consist of two or more components that can be separated when transported but designed to be jointed into one integral unit. Modular homes shall meet the minimum standards for house construction as specified in the Southern Building Code, the FHA Minimum Property Standards, the state factory built housing rules, and have a roof with at least a 3/12 pitch.
Multifamily dwelling means a structure that contains multiple dwelling units.
National Geodetic Vertical Datum , as corrected in 1929, means a vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the floodplain.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavating or filling.
Natural vegetative buffer means a river corridor containing the flora native to that area. The natural floras for specific areas are described in Georgia Geologic Survey Bulletin 114, "The Natural Environments of Georgia." Habitats for endangered species may require human management of the river corridor to maintain those species.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
New construction means any structure for which the start of construction commenced after 1993.
New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed is completed on or after 1993.
Percentage of grade, on street centerline, means the distance vertically (up and down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance.
Perennial stream/river means a stream that flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a USGA Quad map.
Permit means the authorization necessary to begin a land disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, and interstate body, or any other legal entity.
Plat map means a large-scale map that shows the location of tracts of land within a jurisdiction, and the tax status of such tracts.
Plats means soil erosion, preliminary and final.
(1)
Soil erosion means a tentative drawing of a proposed subdivision containing sufficient information (topographical intervals, prospective roads, erosion prevention measures, etc.) to insure the requirements of the soil conservation service are known to the developer.
(2)
Preliminary means a tentative drawing of a proposed subdivision meeting the requirements herein enumerated and showing the proposed layout in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability.
(3)
Final means the final map or as-built drawing and accompanying materials, described in this chapter, on which the subdivider's plan of the subdivision is presented to the land development office or the planning commission for approval and which, if approved by the land development office or the planning commission is recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court.
Preapplication review means an initial and informal stage of subdivision review at which the developer may make known preliminary plan proposals and the county may respond and/or advise the developer concerning the subdivision regulations.
Private street means a street over which the general public has no right of use.
Project means the entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Property owners association (POA) means a legally constituted association of property owners who commonly own and are responsible for the maintenance of commonly owned property and improvements in a development.
Protected river means any perennial river or watercourse with an average annual flow of at least 400 cubic feet per second as determined by appropriate U.S. Geological Survey documents. However, those segments of river covered by the Metropolitan River Protection Act or the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act are specifically excluded from the definition of a protected river.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties or conditions recorded with an approved plat and running with the land, specifying the manner in which land may be used, developed, or improved with the view to protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Public utilities means a service or services provided by a public utility company or a private entity which provides such services or service and all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services.
Public water system means any water distribution system which has 15 or more service connections or serves more than 25 people.
Quadrangle map means the most recently published U.S. Geological Survey 7.5 minute topographic map prepared at a scale of 1:24,000.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:
(1)
Built on a single chassis;
(2)
Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(3)
Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable;
(4)
Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel and seasonal use.
Reforestation plan means a plan, prepared by a registered forester, for the replacing of harvested timber by replanting (as described in the Recommended Best Management Practices for Forestry in Georgia, published by the Georgia Forestry Commission) or by natural regenerative processes (such as coppicing, seed trees, etc.).
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into water of the U.S. excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Reserve strip means a strip or parcel of land along, around, or between properties, the purpose of which is to restrict access.
Reservoir boundary means the edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Resubdivision means a change in a map of any approved or recorded subdivision plat altering the number of lots incorporated within the confines of the original plat.
Right-of-way means a strip of land designated, reserved, dedicated, or purchased for the purpose of pedestrian or vehicular access or utility line installation.
River bank means the rising ground, bordering a river, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
River corridor means all the land, inclusive of islands, not regulated under the Metropolitan River Protection Act (O.C.G.A. 12-5-440 through 12-5-457), or the Coastal Marshlands Protection Act (O.C.G.A. 12-5-280 through 12-5-293), in areas of a protected river and being within 100 feet horizontally on both side of the river as measured from the river banks. The 100-foot buffer shall be marked by a break in slope. Although not within the measured 100-foot-wide buffer, the area between the top of the bank and the edge of the river shall be treated by the local governments in the same manner as the river corridor and shall be included within the river corridor protection district. Because stream channels move due to natural processes such as meandering, river bank erosion, and jumping of channels, the river corridor shall be considered to be fixed at its position at the beginning of each review period for the Fannin County Joint Comprehensive Plan. Any shift in the location of the protected river after the review period will be shown by revision of the boundaries of the river corridor at the time of the next comprehensive plan review by the department of community affairs.
Roadway means the actual road surface including necessary road shoulders and drainage facilities including ditches, curbing and guttering, which is utilized to transport motor vehicles.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity; the product of erosion.
Sensitive natural area means any area, as identified now or hereafter by the department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following:
(1)
Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species;
(2)
Rare or exemplary natural communities;
(3)
Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geologic features; or
(4)
Other significant areas so designated by the department of natural resources; and which is sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Setback line (or building line) means a line beyond which no foundation wall, eave, or other part of any building shall project, unless specified exceptions are made elsewhere in these regulations.
Single-family dwelling means a dwelling structure that is designed for the use of one family.
Slope means the degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually expressed in percent of degree.
Small water supply watershed means a watershed that contains less than 100 square miles of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Soil and water conservation district approved plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Blue Ridge Mountain soil and water conservation district.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation and/or mulch or other ground cover and/or in combination with installing temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice or gravity.
Start of construction (building permit) means and includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footing or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footing, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure (other than a mobile home) without a basement or poured footings, the actual start includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home subdivisions, the actual start is the date on which the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed (including at a minimum the construction of streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the installation of utilities) is completed.
Start of construction (development permit) means the date the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the placement of permanent construction of the structure such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, or construction of columns, and includes the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include initial land clearing nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of buildings appurtenant to the permitted structure. For substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Street means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic whether designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, drive, expressway, boulevard, lane, place, circle, alley or otherwise.
(1)
Arterials. Roads designated to carry rapid, continuous traffic to major magnets within the urban area. Routes will usually pass through or near the heart of a city, connecting residential, commercial, industrial and public areas.
(2)
Bypass. A highway designated for fast, continuous movement of all types of traffic between highways and widely separated parts of the urban area. Bypasses generally have limited or controlled access and are usually grade separated at railroads and major crossings.
(3)
Collector streets. Streets that bring traffic to arterial streets, or interconnect arterial streets. They provide for relatively easy movement at moderate speeds from homes and businesses to arterial streets.
(4)
Local streets. Streets that provide direct access to abutting properties.
(5)
Alley or service drive. A minor accessway used for service access, or property access under specified circumstances, to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
(6)
Marginal access street. A residential street parallel and adjacent to major thoroughfares or arterial streets and which provide access to abutting properties with protection from traffic.
(7)
Cul-de-sac. A local street or road with only one outlet and having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
(8)
Half street. A street or road adjacent to a subdivision tract boundary where only half the required right-of-way and road improvements are provided within the proposed subdivision and the responsibility for the other half is undecided or is left to the adjacent property owner.
Street line or right-of-way means a dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a contiguous street.
Structural alterations means any change in the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls or bearing partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
Structural practices means soil and water conservation measures, other than vegetation, utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating, or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Including but not limited to riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level, spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps, land grading, etc.
Structure means anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground. The term shall include such things as gasoline pumps, signs, mobile homes, and other portable vehicles or structures from which products are vended, and similar objects.
Subdivision means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, and includes resubdivision and, when appropriated to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to the land or area subdivided. This shall include the selling of a tract or tracts from a larger piece on a demand basis with no specific intent to divide into a set number of lots or parcels.
(1)
Major subdivision means all subdivisions of land that are not classified as a minor subdivision.
(2)
Minor subdivision means a subdivision of land in which there are no new roads developed and contains seven or less lots.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means:
(1)
A structure built prior to the enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure either:
a.
Before the improvement or repair is started;
b.
If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred; or
c.
Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
For the purposes of this definition, the term "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions;
(2)
Approximately 80 percent completion of the soil and erosion plan.
Substantially improved existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions means the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvements of the streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
Trout streams means all streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout streams are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs. All streams in Fannin County are considered trout streams by the department of natural resources/environmental protection division.
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroad and other utilities identified by a local government.
Variance means a grant of relief form the requirements of this chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
Vegetative practices means measures for the stabilization of erosive or sediment producing areas by covering the soil with:
(1)
Permanent seeding, sprigging, or planting producing longterm vegetative cover;
(2)
Shortterm seeding, producing temporary vegetative cover; or
(3)
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod forming grass.
Water supply reservoir means a governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multipurpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Water supply watershed means the area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reasons of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and under duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions (swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas).
Yard means an open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and unobstructed by a portion of a structure from the ground upwards, provided herein.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building, extending the full width of the lot and located between the street line and the front line of the most protruding portion of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, rear, means an open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied except by a permitted accessory building, extending the full width of the lot and located between the rear line of the most protruding portion of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building located between the side of the most protruding portion of the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. II, arts. I, II)
Sec. 42-3. - Variances.
(a)
When a developer feels that special circumstances or conditions are peculiar to his/her property, he/she may request that he/she be given a variance from certain standards in this chapter.
(b)
The developer shall make the request for a variance to the Fannin County development officer. The officer shall make a study of the variance request and make a recommendation, in writing, to the Fannin County board of commissioners who shall have the authority to grant the variance.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. VI, art. I)
Sec. 42-4. - Validity.
If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause, phrase, or provision of this chapter shall be adjudged invalid or held unconstitutional, such decisions shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. VI, art. II)
Sec. 42-5. - Liability.
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this chapter, nor the compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law or impose any liability upon Fannin County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. VI, art. III)
Sec. 42-6. - Public hearings; notice.
Two public hearings shall be held on the adoption of all proposed amendments to this chapter. The notice of the time, date and place of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper of general circulation within the county. The public hearing must be advertised at least 15 calendar days prior to the public hearings.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. VI, art. IV)
Sec. 42-7. - Penalties.
The Fannin County land development officer, or his/her authorized designee, shall have the authority to:
(1)
Inspection. Subject to constitutional limitations, enter or inspect any building, land, structure or premises in the county for the purpose of inspection of the land or premises associated therewith for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions of all codes and ordinances of the county; provided, however, that:
a.
Efforts shall be made to conduct inspections during normal business hours, if practicable, or unless, in the discretion of the code land development officer, an emergency is deemed to exist.
b.
All land development personnel shall present themselves, if necessary, to gain entrance or access to the property, at the front door or entrance in order to identify themselves prior to accessing the premises. The land development officer shall present official identification upon reasonable request.
c.
The land development officer will periodically inspect the sites of land disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this article, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he/she shall be deemed in violation of this article.
d.
The issuing authority, Fannin County, or its designated officers and representatives, including the Fannin County land development officer; employees of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, the Soil and Water Conservation District governing Fannin County, Georgia, or such other designee shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at a reasonable time upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land disturbing activities.
(2)
Withholding permits. The land development officer is authorized to withhold the issuance of building permits or to refuse approval of a plan to any building contractor, developer or property owner, until such time as such contractor or person has resolved satisfactorily all outstanding violations from previously issued permits with the inspection department.
(3)
Enforcement. Upon ascertaining, being advised by another department or citizen, or believing that a violation of any portion of this chapter or ordinance exists, the land development officer shall cause a written notice to be directed to the owner of the property or such other appropriate representative, unless in the opinion of the land development officer an emergency is deemed to exist.
a.
The notice shall state the following:
1.
The owner or controller of the property.
2.
The location, including district, land lot and parcel.
3.
Nature of the violation and penalties, if applicable.
4.
A provision for rectifying the violation without further proceedings.
5.
A time frame for compliance.
6.
A date for reinspection for compliance or mechanism for rescheduling an inspection, as applicable.
b.
Following the expiration of the time set forth in the notice, the land development officer shall cause a reinspection to be performed.
c.
If the violation has not been remedied, the land development officer shall issue a citation to the owner of the property and/or the responsible party, or refer the matter to the county attorney's office for their handling in accordance with the applicable code section or ordinance.
d.
If the land development officer believes that an emergency is deemed to exist such that imminent harm or peril to life or property is likely or is authorized by this chapter or ordinances, the land development officer shall be authorized to immediately refer these matters, without notice to the owner, to the county attorney for immediate action as set forth under the applicable Code section or ordinance.
e.
In any matter where a court order was previously rendered regarding a similar subject matter, the land development officer shall immediately issue a citation without the necessity of another notice.
f.
A notice described in this section shall be effective against the person noticed, for substantially the same violation for a period of one year from the issuance of the notice.
(4)
Penalties and fines.
a.
Failure to obtain a permit for land disturbing activity. If any person commences any land disturbing activity requiring a land disturbing permit as prescribed in this chapter without first obtaining the permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of any previously issued building permits for other projects or such activity may result in the withholding of future permits.
b.
Stop work orders. For the first and second violations of the provisions of this chapter, the land development officer shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days, the director or the issuing authority shall issue a stop work order requiring that land disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the land development officer shall issue an immediate stop work order in lieu of a warning; for a third and each subsequent violation, the director or issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop work order; and all stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
c.
Notice of noncompliance. If, through inspection, it is determined that the person engaged in land disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan or failed to comply with the applicable general design principles of best management practices, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he/she shall be deemed in violation of this article and deemed to have forfeited any required performance security if required to post one. The issuing authority (Fannin County) may call the performance security or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
d.
Civil monetary penalties. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, permitting conditions or stop work order shall be liable for a civil penalty or fine not to exceed $2,500.00 per day, but in no event less than $250.00. There shall be a minimum penalty of $250.00 per day for each violation involving the construction of a single-family dwelling by or under contract with the owner for his/her own occupancy; and there shall be a minimum penalty of $1,000.00 per day for each day for each violation involving land disturbing activities other than as provided above. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Any civil penalties imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be payable to the county, shall commence on the date of issuance of any stop work order or other notice of noncompliance and shall not be affected by the filing of any appeal; however, an appellant may, upon filing an appeal, post an appeal bond with the issuing authority in an amount equal to double the cost of any and all corrective work to be determined by the issuing authority; further, any civil penalty imposed pursuant to this section may, at the discretion of the issuing authority, be waived or reduced if, in the discretion of the issuing authority, the violator has taken sufficient and timely curative and corrective action. No inspections, certificate of occupancies, building permits or soil erosion permits will be granted to any person who has an outstanding fine for violating this chapter. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. Each day that the violation continues shall be and is deemed to be a separate offense.
e.
Alternative penalties. Any violation of this chapter may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the magistrate court of the county. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties, which can be assessed for violations of county ordinances, the magistrate court of the county shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that the fines that would be imposed in the event that the citation or accusation was upheld by the court, then the citation or accusation may be returnable to the superior court of the county.
f.
Criminal misdemeanor. Any user that willfully or negligently violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than six months or both.
g.
Remedies nonexclusive. The provisions in sections are not exclusive remedies. Fannin County reserves the right to take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant property owner/developer/individual. Fannin County reserves the right to take other action against any property owner/developer/individual when the circumstances warrant. Further, Fannin County is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant owner/developer/individual. These actions may be taken concurrently.
(Ord. of 3-12-2002, ch. VI, art. V)
Secs. 42-842-28. - Reserved.
