ARTICLE X. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES
The intent of this article is to provide for suitable and proper administration and enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance; to designate the enforcing officer and to outline the proper steps to be taken by parties interested in constructing, erecting, or modifying a structure or other land use; and, to set forth the penalties for violating the provisions of this ordinance.

Sec. 10-1. - Zoning administrator.
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to administer and to enforce this ordinance. The zoning administrator shall keep records of all and any permits, the certificates of occupancy issued, and all submitted subdivision plats, with notations of all special conditions involved. He shall file and safely keep copies of all sketches and plans submitted, and the same shall form a part of the records of his office and shall be made as a public record. The zoning administrator has the authority to take final action on applications or matters involving variances, nonconforming uses, or special exceptions that these regulations have not reserved for public hearings, either with the planning committee or city council. The zoning administrator shall return and not accept any incomplete application for a zoning amendment, variance, or special exception.
Sec. 10-2. - Building permit required.
A building permit, or a sign permit in [the] case of a sign, is required in advance of the initiation of construction, erection, moving, or alteration of any building or structure or sign. No building permit or sign permit shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance; however, a building permit issued before the adoption of this ordinance shall remain valid with the same qualifications as issued under this ordinance. No building permit shall be issued until utility and drainage plans have been prepared and approved by a licensed professional engineer, if in the opinion of the zoning administrator or the building inspector utility and/or drainage may be a problem.
Sec. 10-3. - Application for building permit.
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat or plan in duplicate, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon; the size of the building to be erected; the location of the building on the lot; the size and location of the lot; the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate; the setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots and such other information as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being observed. Any building permit shall become void if the work involved has not begun within six months after the date of issuance of the permit, or if the work or development authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the work or development commenced; provided that extensions of time for periods not exceeding six months each may be allowed in writing by the zoning administrator.
The applicant for a building permit shall submit a certificate with his application which certifies that the lot he proposes to develop is a lot of record. When the lot in question does not meet the lot width and lot area requirements of this ordinance, then the applicant shall certify that such lot was a lot of record prior to the adoption of this ordinance or is a lot which has been created through governmental taking of property.
Building permits shall be issued by the city clerk only after approval by the zoning administrator and building inspector. The building permit will identify buildings by assigning a street identification number. House street numbers of residential, commercial, and industrial buildings will display street identification numbers of at least three inches in height, that are visible from the facing street. (See article VIII.)
Sec. 10-4. - Sign permits.
The zoning administrator shall receive applications for the construction of signs, as required by this ordinance. Such applications shall follow the same forms as required for building permits, and shall contain information required by this ordinance in article VIII. The zoning administrator shall process such sign applications. The city clerk shall issue sign permits and sign permit numbers for proposed signs which comply with the requirements of this ordinance upon approval by the zoning administrator.
Sec. 10-5. - Certificate of occupancy.
Certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the building inspector upon approval by the zoning administrator in accordance with the following provisions:
Section 10-5.1. Certificate of occupancy. Certificate of occupancy is required in advance of occupancy or use of:
A.
A building hereafter erected.
B.
A building hereafter altered so as to affect height, or the side, front or rear yard.
C.
Any building or premises where a change in the type of occupancy or use will occur.
Section 10-5.2. Issuance of certificate of occupancy. Upon payment of any required fees, the building inspector shall sign and issue a certificate if the proposed use of land or building as stated on the certificate of occupancy is signed thereto by the owner or his appointed agent and is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and if the building, as finally constructed, complies with the sketch or plan submitted and approved for the building permit. One copy of all certificates of occupancy issued which contain a statement of the intended use of the applicable property, floor loads, and other pertinent information, signed by the owner or his agent shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
Section 10-5.3. Denial of certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this ordinance, and the structure conforms with the applicable provisions of the building code and complies with the sketches or plans submitted for obtaining the building permit.
Sec. 10-6. - Inspection and enforcement.
The zoning administrator shall have the power to conduct such investigations as may reasonably be necessary to assure or compel compliance with the requirements and provisions of this zoning ordinance. For this purpose, the administrator may enter at reasonable times upon any property for the purpose of investigation and inspection.
Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction by the municipal court of the City of Brooklet, Georgia, may be fined not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Sec. 10-7. - Remedies.
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used in violation of this ordinance, the zoning administrator or any other appropriate authority, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the violation in the case of such buildings, structure, or land.
Sec. 10-8. - Hearing dates.
The zoning administrator will provide to the city clerk on or before January 15 of each year a schedule of deadlines for submission of applications for zoning map amendments, text amendments, variances and special exceptions each month and the corresponding planning commission hearing and city council hearing dates.
