Chapter 42 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 10; adult entertainment, ch. 18-76 et seq.; courts, ch. 22; solid waste, ch. 26; emergency services, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 54; traffic and vehicles, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Violation of ordinances of counties, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60; Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; authorization to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.

Sec. 42-1. - Trespassing on county property.
There shall be no trespassing on any property owned by the county and posted with appropriate signs informing the public that trespassing is prohibited. For purposes of this section, trespassing shall include but shall not be limited to the overnight parking of any vehicles, including but not limited to certain large trucks commonly known as 18-wheelers, in any parking lot which the county may own. Signs will be posted in the parking lots, and this section shall be enforced by the county marshal.
A violation of this section shall be punishable for the first offense by imposition of a fine not to exceed $100.00; for the second offense imposition of a fine not to exceed $250.00 and for the third offense imposition a fine not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day any violation of this section shall continue shall be a separate offense.
(Code 1976, § 10-1001; Mo. of 7-7-92; Amd. of 2-21-12)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-20 et seq.
Sec. 42-2. - Discharge of firearms.
It shall be unlawful to willfully and recklessly discharge a firearm so that the projectile from the firearm trespasses on the property of another. Violation of this section shall be punishable upon conviction as provided in section 1-11.
(Code 1976, § 10-1002)
State Law reference— Discharge of firearm near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearm on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104; discharge of firearm on Sunday, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-105.
Sec. 42-3. - Houston County public boat landing; acts prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person while on the property owned by the county known as the Houston County Public Boat Landing, located at Georgia Highway 96 and the Ocmulgee River, to commit any of the following acts:
(1)
Consume any alcoholic beverage;
(2)
Discharge any firearm;
(3)
Camp or stay overnight;
(4)
Building or maintain any open fire; or
(5)
Swim in the Ocmulgee River.
Violation of this section shall be punishable upon conviction as provided in section 1-11.
(Min. of 9-7-93(2), § 1)
Sec. 42-4. - Public nuisance in relation to dwelling, building, structure or property.
(a)
The board of commissioners of the county, is authorized by the O.G.C.A. title 41, nuisances, chapter 2, abatement of nuisances generally, section 7 to exercise its police power to repair, close, or demolish certain defined dwellings, buildings, or structures in the manner provided in said Code section and Code sections 41-2-8 through 41-2-17 when such property is in violation of the aforementioned Code sections.
(b)
The board of commissioners of the county, finds that there exist in the unincorporated area of the county dwellings, buildings, or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation and not in compliance with applicable codes; which have defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; which have other conditions in existence which render such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of such county; and which are vacant, dilapidated dwellings, buildings, or structures in which drug crimes are being committed.
(c)
The definitions of terms in O.G.C.A. § 41-2-8(1) through (12), are adopted as the definitions of those terms as used in this section.
(d)
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the unincorporated areas of the county to construct and to maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the jurisdiction, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or to maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
(e)
The Houston County Building Inspector's Office, and any agent of such office, are designated to exercise the powers prescribed by this section, and, as such, come within the definition of "public officer" in O.G.C.A. § 41-2-8(10).
(f)
(1)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer designated in subsection (e) to exercise the powers prescribed by this section by a public authority or by at least five residents of the unincorporated area of the county charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property located in the unincorporated area of the county is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property. If the public officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, said public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the owner and parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the owner and parties in interest; state with particularity the factual basis for the action; and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the owner and parties in interest that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.G.C.A. § 41-2-5, at a date and time certain and at a place within the county where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court. The owner and parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing.
(2)
If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
a.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
b.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
For purposes of this Code section, the court shall make its determination of "reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure" without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factor in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in O.G.C.A. chapter 39A of title 43, qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the jurisdiction.
c.
If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the designated officer or agent may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
d.
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public officer and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials;
e.
That the amount of the cost of demolition, including all court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
(3)
The lien provided for in paragraph e. of subsection (2) of this Code section shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition in the office of the clerk of superior court in the county where the real property is located and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under subsection (g) of O.G.C.A. § 41-2-12. The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid. After filing a certified copy of the order with the clerk of superior court, the public officer shall forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the county tax commissioner. It shall be the duty of the county tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property and to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically O.G.C.A. chapter 4 of title 48; provided, however, that the limitation of O.G.C.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. The tax commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the governing authority of the county whose ordinance is being enforced. Thirty days after imposition of the lien, the unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
(4)
The board of commissioners of the county may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with the county agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building, or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
(5)
Where the abatement action does not commence in the superior court, review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a dwelling, building, or structure shall be by direct appeal to the superior court under O.G.C.A. § 5-3-29.
(6)
In addition to the procedures and remedies in this section, the board of commissioners of the county may provide by ordinance that designated public officers may issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety, and other codes adopted by ordinance, and conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance, and seek to enforce such citations in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this section.
(7)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the county to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(g)
Complaints issued by the public officer pursuant to this section shall be served in the manner provided for in O.G.C.A. § 41-2-12(a) through (h).
(Ord. of 3-5-02)
Sec. 42-5. - Yard sales/garage sales.
(a)
For the purpose of this section, the term yard sale/garage sale shall mean the sale or trading of used clothing, furniture, household items, food, dishes, antiques or similar goods or merchandise on a residentially zoned lot or parcel of land within the county.
(b)
Said yard sales/garage sales shall be allowed on a residential lot or parcel for not more than two sales not to exceed two days each during a 12-month period.
(c)
Said yard sales/garage sales shall be allowed on commercially zoned property within the county when conducted completely within an enclosed building.
(d)
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Amd. of 3-27-90)
