ARTICLE 22. - HISTORIC (H) DISTRICTS[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Cross reference— Historical preservation, ch. 50.

Section 2201. - Purpose.
A.
The historic district is an "overlay district," which applies additional standards to specific areas which may lie within any of the districts referred to in articles 5 through 19. In each zoning district located within the boundaries of the H district, both the regulations of that district and the regulations of the H district apply.
B.
The purpose of the historic district is to promote the education, cultural, economic, and general welfare of Upson County as authorized by the Georgia Historic Preservation Act No. 1402 (1980 Ga. Laws, page 1723 et seq.; O.C.G.A. chs. 23 through 26A, A Uniform Procedure for the Preservation of Historical Sites and Structures, and for the Repeal of All Ordinances in Conflict), which empowers counties and municipalities to enact and create ordinances concerning historic sites and structures.
C.
The regulations set forth for the H district are intended to protect and preserve the historic and architecturally worthy buildings, sites, structures, monuments, streetscapes, and neighborhoods within the H district.
Section 2202. - Features which make land suitable for inclusion within the historic (H) district.
Areas containing structures, sites, or buildings that are significant in American history, architecture, archaeology, and culture are desirable for inclusion within the boundaries of the H district.
Section 2203. - Boundaries of the historic (H) district.
A.
The official map (section 2301 of this ordinance) shows the boundaries of the historic district. Article 23 also contains additional information concerning interpreting district boundaries, amending boundaries, etc.
B.
The boundaries of the historic district are established by the historic preservation commission under procedures contained in the ordinance establishing the Upson County Historic Preservation Commission as amended [chapter 50, article II of the Code of Upson County, Georgia]. Research documenting the history of area buildings is used to identify historically significant buildings which are suitable for inclusion within the boundaries of the historic district.
Section 2204. - Development standards for historic (H) districts.
A.
As stated in section 2201, the historic district applies additional development standards to specific areas which may lie within several of the districts referred to in articles 5 through 19. In each zoning district located within the boundaries of the historic district, both the development standards for that district and the standards of the historic district apply.
B.
The development standards and other requirements for the historic district are contained in the ordinance establishing the Upson County Historic Preservation Commission as amended [chapter 50, article II of the Code of Upson County, Georgia]. That ordinance must be consulted for complete details of development standards for the historic district.
