ARTICLE 23. - OFFICIAL ZONING MAP UPSON COUNTY, GEORGIA (OFFICIAL MAP)[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— The official zoning map reference is by the terms of Ordinance Number 80 to be designated as § 2301, however, §§ 1, 2, and 3 of Ordinance Number 80 include provisions of § 2302. Therefore, by implication, § 2302 is superceded so it can be omitted. I have marked it as reserved.

Section 2301. - Official zoning map, Upson County, Georgia (official map).
modified
Section 1.
(a)
The official zoning map of Upson County, Georgia, shall consist of an index and 172 aerial photographs of Upson County containing a certification signed by the commission chairman, bearing the seal of the county under the following words: "This certifies that this is page _____ of _____ pages plus index which taken together is the Official Zoning Map of Upson County, Georgia, referred to in Article 23 of the zoning ordinance of Upson County, Georgia," together with the date of adoption of the maps.
(b)
The official zoning map of Upson County, Georgia, is hereby designated to be section 2301 of the Upson County Zoning Ordinance and any reference to the "official map" in said ordinance refers to this official zoning map adopted by this ordinance.
Section two.
(a)
The official zoning map may be altered only if the proposed alterations are in conformance with the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists), (this does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence) and sound comprehensive planning principals [principles]. Any alteration of the official zoning map is an amendment to this ordinance. The procedure by which amendments are proposed and approved is contained in section 410 of the Upson County Zoning Ordinance. Any amendment involving changes in zoning district boundaries must be entered on the official zoning map as soon as the amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners. The entry must be as follows: "On (date) by official action of the Board of Commissioners of Upson County the following change (or changes) were made in the Official Zoning Map of Upson County, Georgia: (brief description of change)." It must be signed by the commission chairman and bear the seal of the county. No amendment to portions of the Upson County Zoning Ordinance that are to be illustrated on the official zoning map become effective until after the change has been entered as described above on the official zoning map.
(b)
Alterations to the official zoning map may be made only by the procedures contained in sections 410 and 2302 of the Upson County Zoning Ordinance. Any unauthorized alteration of the official zoning map by any person is a violation of this ordinance.
(c)
If the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the board of commissioners may adopt a new official zoning map which will replace [the] previous official map. The new official map is identified as such in the same manner as described hereinabove in section one. When the new official map is adopted, a notation must be made on the previous official map that it is no longer valid, indicating the date that the new official map was adopted, as a reference aid. Previous official maps should be preserved, if it has not been lost or destroyed, for possible future reference.
Section three.
The official zoning map shall be kept on display for reference by the public in the office of the administrative officer and said map is the final authority as to the current status of zoning district boundaries.
(Ord. No. 80, §§ 1—3, 12-30-1994)
Section 2302. - (Reserved).
Section 2303. - (Reserved).
Section 2304. - (Reserved).
Section 2305. - Zoning district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the exact location of the boundary of a zoning district shown on the official map, the following guidelines will be used in establishing the exact location of the boundary:
A.
Where a zoning district boundary line as appearing on the official map divides a single lot that was a single lot at the time of the enactment of this ordinance, the requirements for the zoning district in which the greater portion of the lot lies must be extended to the balance of the lot without recourse or amendment procedure.
B.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a municipal/county boundary such municipal/county line shall be construed to be the boundary.
C.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following a property line or such line extended, the line or lines extended is the boundary.
D.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately following the centerline of a stream bed, such a centerline is the boundary.
E.
Where a zoning district boundary is indicated as approximately parallel to the centerline of a street, road, railroad, or the right-of-way of such a facility, the zoning district boundary is parallel to the centerline and at a distance from it as indicated by scale on the official map.
F.
Where a public way, street, alley or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the zoning district applicable to the properties to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street, alley, or right-of-way.
G.
In the case where the exact location of a district boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the planning commission shall, upon application by the property owner, determine the location of the district boundary.
Section 2306. - Relationship between official map and Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists).
A.
The Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists) was prepared by the planning commission and adopted by the board of commissioners of Upson County. It should provide the best possible indication of desirable land use patterns that will meet projected future demand for land uses of various types. The Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists) supplies a body of information on which decisions on future development may be made that are guided by sound planning principles. The plan does not legally regulate land uses. It contains a land use map, which shows suitable areas for various types of land uses. Actual land uses may not necessarily conform to the land use map.
B.
The zoning districts contained on the official map carry standards which must be met by all new development and construction in the county. The arrangements of zoning districts is based on land use information contained in the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists). Establishment and amendment of zoning district boundaries must be in conformance with the Upson County Land Use Plan (where one exists). (This does not necessarily mean a one-to-one correspondence.) This assures that such amendments to the official map are based on defensible findings of fact as well as sound comprehensive planning principles.
