ARTICLE 27. - COMMERCIAL POULTRY AND SWINE OPERATIONS—STANDARDS FOR OPERATION, STRUCTURES AND APPURTENANCES

Section 2701. - Setbacks.
A.
All commercial poultry houses, swine barns and structures; enclosed, concentrated feedlot areas and the like; long-term, concentrated holding areas; stockpiles of manure, stack houses, lagoons and other structures or locations for the storage or disposal of waste and/or deceased animals, shall be placed no closer than:
1.
Two hundred feet from all property lines;
2.
One thousand feet from all existing residential homes, except those of the owner;
3.
Two thousand six hundred feet (one-half mile) from any city or county residential zoning district.
4.
Accessory structures, such as equipment repair shops, offices and well houses, must only meet the accessory structure setback requirements of the zoning district in which they are constructed.
B.
All structure to structure and appurtenance to structure setback distances shall be measured in a straight line from the nearest corner of any principle permitted structure or appurtenance for commercial poultry and swine operations to the nearest corner of a structure to which setback requirements apply.
C.
The planning commission may recommend and the board of commissioners may require additional setback and/or protective distances and buffers.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(H), 5-8-2018)
Section 2702. - Minimum acreage.
All new commercial poultry and swine operation construction of one or two houses, barns or other principal structures, enclosed/confined areas and their associated structures and appurtenances, shall be constructed on lots of a minimum size of ten contiguous acres. An additional five acres minimum is required to be added to such parcel, for every one house, structure or enclosed/confined area to be constructed over two.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(H), 5-8-2018)
Section 2703. - Established, non-conforming, poultry and swine operations.
Where a non-conforming poultry or swine operation structure or appurtenance is constructed and in operation, prior to the initial adoption date of these standards, such houses, structures and appurtenances may be reconstructed within their previous footprint, if significantly damaged or destroyed, regardless of any new Upson County construction and development standards, if:
A.
The significantly damaged/destroyed structures have been in production within the 48 months prior to the date of significant damage/destruction;
B.
The replacement structures are permitted for reconstruction within 48 months of the date of significant damage or destruction; and
C.
The replacement structures are in production within the 72 months following the date of the significant damage/destruction.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(H), 5-8-2018)
Section 2704. - Stack houses required.
Storage of all poultry manure shall be by dry stack house only.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(H), 5-8-2018)
Section 2705. - Agriculture and nuisance considerations.
No commercial poultry or swine operation or any of its structures or appurtenances shall be or become a nuisance, private or public, if such operations, structures and appurtenances are maintained and/or conducted in accordance with the current industry best management practices (BMPs) and comply with existing laws and regulations of Upson County, the State of Georgia or the federal government. An agricultural use may be found to be a nuisance when it is determined that negligent or improper operation has occurred or BMPs have not been used or maintained for a significant amount of time or structures have not been reasonably maintained.
( Ord. No. 262 , § 1(H), 5-8-2018)
