Chapter 62 - PARKS AND RECREATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— By agreement dated April 16, 1998, Upson County and the City of Thomaston reestablished the Thomaston-Upson County Recreation Commission. The agreement provides for appointment of members, their terms, oath, meetings, duties and other matters. An official copy of the agreement is on file in the office of the county clerk.
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38.
State Law reference— State parks, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-1 et seq.; establishment of recreation systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-1 et seq.; recreation boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-64-5; Georgia State Games Commission, O.C.G.A. § 50-12-40 et seq.; power to provide parks, recreation areas, programs and facilities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(5).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - County parks and recreation areas.
(a)
Upson County has established and maintains public parks and recreation areas outside the limits of municipal corporations.
(b)
The public parks and recreation areas established by Upson County are available to the public during daylight hours, except that any program or activity sponsored by the Thomaston-Upson County Recreation Department shall have priority in the use of park facilities for its scheduled activities, and is authorized to expend its use of said facilities beyond daylight hours. The hours of operation of Sprewell Bluff Park are subject to change on a permanent or temporary basis by the Upson County Board of Commissioners to include beyond daylight hours.
(Ord. No. 223, § 1.A, 5-14-2013; Ord. No. 224, § 1.A, 6-11-2013; Ord. No. 230, § 2.A, 5-27-2014)
Sec. 62-2. - County property.
(a)
Upson County owns and maintains property which is not a part of the county public parks and recreation areas.
(b)
Any person, group or organization desiring to use county property for an event must first apply at the office of the Upson County Commissioners for a permit, no later than 30 days prior to the desired date of use. The application for a permit shall specify among other things, if there will be any food sales or other commercial activity. If so, the applicant must provide evidence of appropriate licenses and permits by those individuals or organizations desiring to sell food or conduct other commercial activities, and must also pay, in advance, a sum to reimburse the actual cost of health or other inspections undertaken by, or on behalf of, Upson County.
(Ord. No. 223, § 1.B, 5-14-2013; Ord. No. 224, § 1.B, 6-11-2013; Ord. No. 230, § 2.B, 5-27-2014)
Sec. 62-3. - Rules and regulations.
(a)
The cardinal rule of conduct for all persons utilizing public parks and recreations areas is that of common courtesy and respect for the rights of others. Most problems can be avoided if this rule is recognized.
(b)
The possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages within any public park or recreation area is prohibited. Glass containers are prohibited.
(c)
Motorized vehicles may be operated only upon designated roadways and shall be parked only in officially designated areas.
(d)
Pets are not permitted within any public park or recreation area unless on a six-foot leash. Owners or handlers are responsible for clean-up/removal of animal feces. Aggressive dogs are not allowed, nor are aggressive breeds.
(e)
Public parks and recreation areas are to be maintained as peaceful, family recreation areas. Loud radios or other sound systems which can be heard more than 50 feet from the source shall be unlawful.
(f)
Every person shall at all times obey and comply with directions given by designated employees of Upson County and official regulatory signs posted within any public park or recreation area.
(Ord. No. 223, § 1.C, 5-14-2013; Ord. No. 224, § 1.C, 6-11-2013; Ord. No. 230, § 2.C, 5-27-2014)
Secs. 62-4—62-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SPREWELL BLUFF PARK AND RECREATION AREA

Sec. 62-21. - Sprewell Bluff Park and Recreation Area.
(a)
Upson County has leased and maintains the Sprewell Bluff Park and adjacent area at Sprewell Bluff on the Flint River. Sprewell Bluff Park and Recreation Area is defined as being the former Sprewell Bluff State Park or WMA and the 93 plus acres owned by Upson County adjacent to the park.
(b)
No commercial activity shall be conducted on any part of the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area without FIRST obtaining the approval and consent of the board of commissioners of Upson County and second obtaining a permit from the office of the Upson County Commissioners and payment of the permit fee as established from time to time by the Upson County Board of Commissioners. Non-profit, charitable and civic organizations shall have priority in the approval and issuance of such permits.
(c)
Vehicle parking fees shall be established by the Upson County Board of Commissioners.
(d)
In addition to the general rules set out in this chapter, the following Rules and Regulations are applicable to the Upson County Sprewell Bluff Park and Recreation Area:
(1)
The cardinal rule of conduct for all persons utilizing the Sprewell Bluff Park and Recreation Area is that of common courtesy and respect for the rights of others. Most problems can be avoided if this rule is recognized.
(2)
No person may be admitted to use the facilities of Sprewell Bluff Park and Recreation Area without payment of the appropriate parking fee. Evidence of fee payment shall be produced upon request of area personnel or other authorized individual.
(3)
All persons using the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area shall comply with all of the laws of the State of Georgia regulating parks, recreation areas, and fishing, as well as with the applicable rules of the state department of natural resources and of the county.
(4)
Hunting, trapping or otherwise pursuing or catching any wildlife within the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area is strictly prohibited.
(5)
Sprewell Bluff opens at 7:00 a.m. and closes at dark throughout the year unless otherwise established by the Upson County Board of Commissioners.
(6)
Off-road vehicles (ATV's, dirt bikes, off road bicycles, go carts, motorized scooters, etc.) as well as horseback riding are prohibited. Golf carts are likewise prohibited with the exception of those utilized by disabled individuals and displaying a valid handicap sticker, and they are only to be used on paved roadways and at the river side park.
(7)
The possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages within the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area is prohibited. Glass containers are prohibited.
(8)
Discharge of any firearm within the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area shall be unlawful.
(9)
Possession of any explosive substance, including fireworks, within the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area shall be unlawful.
(10)
Motorized vehicles may be operated only upon designated roadways and shall be parked only in officially designated areas.
(11)
No person shall drive any motor vehicles of any character on the roadways of the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour or in the river side parking area greater than 15 miles per hour.
(12)
Pets are not permitted within the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area unless on a six-foot leash. Owners or handlers are responsible for clean-up/removal of animal feces. Aggressive dogs are not allowed, nor are aggressive breeds.
(13)
Campfires or other open flames shall be unlawful, other than a grill being used in the preparation of food.
(14)
The park is to be maintained as a peaceful, family recreation area. Loud radios or other sound systems which can be heard more than 50 feet from the source shall be unlawful.
(15)
The county boat ramp is to be used only in launching or removing boats from the water. Boat ramps must not be blocked. Use of the boat ramp for sunbathing and the placing thereon of lawn chairs and other equipment is prohibited.
(16)
Every person shall at all times obey and comply with directions given by designated employees of Upson County and official regulatory signs posted within the area.
(17)
Utilization of the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area and its facilities is at the risk of the user. Swimming is permitted, but there is no life guard on duty at any time. The county assumes no responsibility for injury to persons or property arising from the utilization of the Sprewell Bluff Recreation Area.
(Ord. No. 223, § 2, 5-14-2013; Ord. No. 224, § 2, 6-11-2013; Ord. No. 230, § 3, 5-27-2014)
