Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances, resolutions and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "the Code of Upson County, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the county, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
Board of commissioners, board, commissioners, commission, county commission, governing authority, governing body. Each such term shall mean the board of commissioners of Upson County, Georgia.
Chairman, other officers and officials. Whenever the term "chairman" is used, it shall mean the chairman of the board of commissioners of Upson County. Whenever titles of various officers or officials are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Upson County.
Code. The term "Code" shall mean the Code of Upson County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted, but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Upson County, Georgia.
County manager. The term "county manager" means the county manager of Upson County, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision or section appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection, unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Governor. The term "governor" means the governor of the State of Georgia.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things, as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used, it shall mean a place or places.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall mean the official consolidated list maintained in the clerk of the commissioners' office which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" shall mean the sheriff of Upson County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature and subscription. The signature and subscription of a person, shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week, of seven days.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the board of commissioners.
(b)
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of Upson County, as follows:"
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Upson County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Upson County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section or article or chapter may then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-5. - Continuations of existing ordinances.
The sections appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any zoning ordinance.
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(b)
No such ordinance shall be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this chapter, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any other county ordinance any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance. All sentences may be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment if the fines are not paid, except as otherwise provided by general law, and shall not exceed the maximum punishment specified.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In every case in which any court in this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any offense against a county or municipal ordinance, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(d)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or a violation of a county or municipal ordinance, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any court of this county, including any court of a municipality which has entered into the intergovernmental contract as provided for in this section, shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be collected.
(e)
The additional penalties set forth in this section shall be in addition to that amount required by O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, by O.C.G.A. § 47-11-51 to be paid into the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia, or by any other provision of law.
(f)
The additional penalties as prescribed in this section shall be assessed and collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds. Such additional penalties shall be paid over to the board of commissioners by the tenth day of each month following the month in which these sums are collected.
(g)
All such sums collected and paid over to the board of commissioners shall be deposited into a special account which shall be known as the county jail fund.
(h)
All moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended solely and exclusively for constructing, operating, and staffing the county correctional facilities, or for such other purposes as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-21-95.
(i)
The additional penalties provided for by this section shall not be imposed or collected in any court operated by any municipality located in the county, unless the municipality and the county enter into an intergovernmental contract providing for use of the county jail, correctional institution, or detention facility by municipal prisoners.
(Ord. No. 71, § 3, 9-17-1993)
Cross reference— Prosecution of county ordinances, § 34-26 et seq.
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers and prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; display of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
