ARTICLE III. - MOTION PICTURE THEATERS

Sec. 14-61. - Wiring.
All wiring in motion picture theaters shall be installed under the direct supervision of the chief electrical inspector, and if the chief electrical inspector condemns any wiring, it shall be reinstalled under the direction and approval of the chief electrical inspector. If the owner or operator of a motion picture theater refuses to conform to the directions of the inspector in matters mentioned in this section, the license of the owner and operator shall be ipso facto void, and the theaters shall be immediately closed as unsafe for patronage.
(Code 1977, § 14-3081)
Land development code reference—Electrical code, § 8-2101.
Sec. 14-62. - Smoking, drinking in motion picture machine operating room; responsibility of operator for condition of room.
No smoking or drinking will be permitted in any motion picture machine operating room. The operator shall be held responsible for the condition of the operating room where the operator is employed, and upon conviction for violation of this Code or any ordinance respecting the condition thereof or imposing any duty upon the operator, the operator's license shall become void.
(Code 1977, § 14-3082)
Sec. 14-63. - Persons allowed in motion picture machine operating room.
(a)
Only the following persons shall be allowed in the operating room of any theater or moving picture show during the progress of any public or private performance, in connection with which any machine, machinery or equipment housed by the operating room is being used:
(1)
The chief electrical inspector or the inspector's deputized agents;
(2)
The director, bureau of buildings;
(3)
The manager of the theater;
(4)
The licensed operators who have charge of the machines; and
(5)
Such other persons as, in the judgment of the inspector, may be necessary to the proper inspection, adjustment or maintenance of any machine, machinery or equipment housed in the room affecting or in any way having to do with the operation of sound devices, provided that all these other persons shall have been given permits by the inspector to be present therein.
(b)
In addition to the operators permitted by this section in the projection room of a theater, it shall be permissible for such persons, not more than two in addition to operators on duty, as may be designated by the manager of the theater, to enter the room, and no other shall be permitted to enter.
(Code 1977, § 14-3083)
Sec. 14-64. - Indecency, lewdness in motion picture theaters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sing or repeat or cause to be sung or repeated to a public audience in any motion picture theater any vulgar, lewd, immoral, indecent or immorally suggestive song or opera or part of song or opera or recitation or part of recitation or play or part of play or to perform any immoral, indecent, lewd or immorally suggestive dance or movement in the nature of a dance.
(Code 1977, § 14-3084)
Sec. 14-65. - Indecent, immoral vaudeville performances.
It shall be unlawful for any actor or performer, either male or female, to appear in any motion picture theater which has vaudeville performances in connection therewith in indecent, immoral or immorally suggestive dress or costume. It shall be unlawful for any actor or performer therein, either male or female, to give or render coarse jokes or ribald, lewd or immorally suggestive dances or movements in the nature of a dance of the same prohibited character.
(Code 1977, § 14-3085)
Sec. 14-66. - Obscene motion pictures.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to show or cause to be shown in a motion picture theater or other public place where an admission charge is made an obscene motion picture or similar exhibition or process.
(b)
Test for obscenity. The test for obscenity as applied to this section is whether or not, according to contemporary community standards, as applied by the average person, the motion picture contains any scene which causes the dominant effect of the motion picture to tend to stir the sex impulses or to lead to sexually impure and lustful thoughts or to appeal to prurient interests.
(Code 1977, § 14-3086)
State Law reference— Obscenity, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80 et seq.
Secs. 14-67—14-85. - Reserved.
