ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[1]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-58—2-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-71. - Duties.
modified
The mayor shall have the following duties:
(1)
Presiding at meetings. To preside at all meetings of the city council, but the mayor shall not be allowed to vote at such meetings except in the case of a tie vote by the council on any question, and the mayor shall not have the privilege of debate except when the rules have been duly suspended for that purpose;
(2)
Appointment of standing committees. To appoint at the first meeting each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, standing committees for that year; but the mayor may at any time alter the committees and make such changes as the interest of the city may require;
(3)
Appointment of officers and employees. To appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, all officers and employees of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for;
(4)
Dismissal, suspension, and discipline of officers and employees. To dismiss, suspend, or discipline for cause, all officers and employees under his control;
(5)
Executing legal documents. To sign and execute all contracts, deeds, and bonds of the city duly authorized by the mayor and council; and
(6)
Other duties. To perform all duties assigned to the mayor in the city Charter or as may be assigned from time to time by the city council.
Sec. 2-72. - Powers.
modified
The mayor shall have the following powers:
(1)
Rule making. To prescribe such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to his authority, and to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed;
(2)
Investigation. To investigate and to examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for the purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the council to aid in such investigations, examinations, or inquiries;
(3)
Overriding. To set aside any action taken by a department head and to supersede him in the functions of his office;
(4)
Delegation. To direct any department to perform the work for another department, and to authorize any department head or officer responsible to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under such person; and
(5)
Other powers. To exercise such other power and authority that may be conferred on the mayor by the city Charter or otherwise by law.
Sec. 2-73. - Mayor pro tempore.
During a temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the city council shall elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem, who during such absence or disability shall possess the powers of mayor.
Sec. 2-74. - Acting mayor.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor the council may appoint a person duly qualified to serve as mayor until the vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law.
Secs. 2-75—2-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

Sec. 2-86. - Appointment.
The city council shall appoint a chief administrative officer who shall not be a councilmember. The chief administrative officer shall be custodian of the official city seal and maintain city council records required by this Code, the city Charter, or state law.
Sec. 2-87. - Clerk as chief administrative officer.
In the event the city council has not appointed a city manager, as is permitted by the city Charter, the clerk shall serve as the chief administrative officer of the city.
Sec. 2-88. - Duties.
In addition to such duties as may be from time to time assigned by the city council, it shall be the duty of the chief administrative officer to do the following:
(1)
He shall issue all warrants, summons, receipts, executions or other processes directed to the city marshal, excepting as provided for by the Charter.
(2)
He shall keep a minute book in which shall be recorded accurately and legibly and in detail the proceedings of all meetings of the council, setting forth therein who are present, all motions or resolutions voted upon, every report of either special or standing committee, every petition, memorial, claim or communication in writing to the council and the action and disposition thereof made by the council in each and every case, and all orders for the payment of money, giving names, amounts and the purpose for which said payment is made.
(3)
He shall, upon request of any citizen or taxpayer, afford full and free opportunity to said citizen or taxpayer for the examination of all such records, or any other public records that may be in his charge, at any time during business hours.
(4)
He shall keep a record of all ordinances of force in this city in a book of ordinances, said book to contain no other records of writing.
Secs. 2-89—2-109. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - CITY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-110. - Appointment; qualifications; oath; compensation.
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed unless he is a member in good standing of the state bar of Georgia and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the city attorney shall take the oath prescribed by this Code for city officers. The city attorney shall receive compensation in the amount established from time to time by the city council.
Sec. 2-111. - Powers and duties.
The city attorney shall be the legal advisor and representative of the city and in such capacity shall:
(1)
Advise the council or its committees or any city officer, when thereto requested, upon all legal questions arising in the conduct of city business;
(2)
Prepare or revise ordinances when so requested by the council or any committees thereof, and keep the Code of Ordinances of the city up to date and properly indexed;
(3)
Give his opinion upon any legal matter or questions submitted to him by the council, or any of its committees, or by any city officer;
(4)
Attend all council meetings in their entirety for the purpose of giving the council any legal advice requested by its members;
(5)
Prepare for execution all contracts and instruments to which the city is a party and approve, as to form, all bonds required to be submitted to the city;
(6)
Prepare, when authorized by the council, all charges and complaints against and appear in the recorder's court in the prosecution of every person charged with a violation of this Code or of a city ordinance or of any regulations adopted under authority of the Charter, and see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the city;
(7)
Defend any and all suits and actions at law or equity brought against the city, unless otherwise directed by city council;
(8)
Make immediate report to the mayor and council of the outcome of any litigation in which the city has an interest;
(9)
Make an annual report to the mayor and council of all pending litigation in which the city has an interest and the status thereof;
(10)
Keep complete and accurate records of the following, which record shall forever remain the property of the city, including:
a.
All suits in which the city had or has an interest, giving the names of the parties, the nature of the action, the disposition of the case or its status, if pending, and the briefs of counsel;
b.
All written opinions prepared by the city attorney and all certificates or abstracts of titles furnished by him to the city, or any department or official thereof; and
(11)
Render such other legal services as may be required by the mayor or council.
Secs. 2-112—2-135. - Reserved.
