ARTICLE VII. - COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-295—2-314. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

Sec. 2-315. - Created.
There is hereby created a commission whose title shall be "Montezuma Historic Preservation Commission" (hereinafter "commission").
(Code 1990, § 9.5-11; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-316. - Commission position within the city.
The preservation commission shall be part of the planning function of the city.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-12; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-317. - Members; terms; compensation.
(a)
The commission shall consist of five members appointed by the mayor and ratified by the city council. All members shall be residents of the city and shall be persons who have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history, architecture, or the preservation of historic resources.
(b)
To the extent available in the city, at least three members shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of architecture, history, architectural history, planning, archaeology or related professions, and at least one member shall be appointed from among professionals in the disciplines of building construction or real property appraisal. Members shall serve three-year terms. Members may not serve more than two consecutive terms. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointment shall be: one member for one year; three members for two years; and one member for three years. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-13; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996; Ord. No. 301, 9-9-1997)
Sec. 2-318. - Powers and duties of the commission.
The preservation commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the city having the potential for designation as historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the city council specific districts, sites, buildings, structures, or objects to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificate of appropriateness, and grant or deny the same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Recommend to the city council that the designation of any district, site, building, structure, or object as a historic property or as a historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the city;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the city of facade easements and conservation easements, as appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Uniform Conservation Easement Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-10-1 et seq.;
(7)
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the city and on general historic preservation activities;
(8)
Make such investigation and studies of matters relating to historic preservation including consultation with historic preservation experts, as the city council, or the commission itself may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purpose of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out local, state, or private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Submit to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated;
(11)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the city's historic preservation program;
(12)
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the commission;
(13)
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties. The preservation commission shall not obligate the city without prior consent;
(14)
Review and make comments to the historic preservation division of the department of natural resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places; and
(15)
Participate in private, state, and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the city council enter into agreements to do the same.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-14; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-319. - Rules and standards; meetings; officers; quorum.
The preservation commission shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of application for designations and certificates of appropriateness, such as bylaws, removal of membership provisions, and design guidelines and criteria. The preservation commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this chapter. The commission shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission may select such officers as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-15; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-320. - Conflict of interest.
The commission shall be subject to all conflict-of-interest laws set forth in state statutes and in the city Charter.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-16; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-321. - Donations, acceptance and use.
The commission shall have the authority to accept donations and shall ensure that these funds do not displace appropriated governmental funds.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-17; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Sec. 2-322. - Records required.
A public record shall be kept of the commission resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
(Code 1990, § 9.5-18; Ord. No. 292, § III, 10-8-1996)
Secs. 2-323—2-347. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION

Sec. 2-348. - Established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development within the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, the city council establishes the city's planning and zoning commission. This commission is established pursuant to the powers granted to municipalities by the 1983 Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV and O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2(b)(1).
(Code 1990, § 17-16; Ord. No. 217, § 1, 6-27-1989)
Sec. 2-349. - Membership.
(a)
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of five members, who shall all be residents of the city and appointed by the city council.
(b)
The terms of the members shall be for four years except in the appointment of the first commission. Under the terms of this division, three members shall be appointed for a term of two years and the remaining two members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Thereafter, all members shall be appointed for a period of four years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the city council who shall also have the authority to remove any member who fails to regularly attend meetings of the commission, becomes ill or incapacitated to the extent that he cannot perform the duties of a member of that commission or for other good cause.
(c)
All members shall serve without compensation but will be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties as is approved by the city council. No reimbursable expenses will be incurred by the commission or any member thereof without the prior approval of the city council.
(Code 1990, § 17-17; Ord. No. 217, § 2, 6-27-1989)
Sec. 2-350. - Organization, rules and staff.
(a)
The planning and zoning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be for one year with eligibility for reelection.
(b)
The commission shall elect a secretary from among its members who shall serve a term of one year with eligibility for reelection.
(c)
The commission shall adopt bylaws to govern its procedure and establish rules for conducting its meetings, but such bylaws must be approved by the city council for their implementation.
(d)
All meetings of the commission shall be conducted at the city hall or such other place as is made available to the commission by the city council. All meetings shall be open to the public and shall comply with the open meetings law, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
(e)
The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it deems necessary but only with the prior approval of the city council. Any expenditure of the commission for such employees and staff must also have prior approval of the city council.
(f)
The commission shall prepare minutes of all its meetings and shall furnish the city council with a copy of those minutes. In addition, when considering proposed changes in zoning, the commission shall file a written report to the city council of its recommendation and reasons for that recommendation.
(Code 1990, § 17-18; Ord. No. 217, § 3, 6-27-1989)
Sec. 2-351. - Powers and duties.
(a)
All requests for changes in zoning, whether by individuals, corporations, or the city council, shall first be submitted to the planning and zoning commission for its review and recommendation to the city council. In performing this function the commission shall be guided by the provisions of the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq. and the zoning regulations set forth in chapter 114, but the commission shall not be required to comply with the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq., except as the same may place affirmative requirements on the commission.
(b)
The commission shall assist the city council in developing a comprehensive planning and zoning scheme for the city, shall review any such plan that is prepared by or on behalf of the city council and shall make such recommendations to the city council as the commission deems in the best interest of the city.
(c)
The commission shall serve as an advisory board for all plans and requests for zoning and rezoning submitted under any comprehensive planning and zoning scheme adopted by the city council as well as any zoning ordinance. The city council will furnish to the commission all plans, plats, and other submissions for use by the commission.
(d)
The commission shall assist the city council in preparing a master plan and maps for the systematic development of the city and shall make such recommendations as it deems in the best interest of the city. The commission shall also cooperate and coordinate its activities and efforts with the chamber of commerce and the county development authority in order to provide a harmonious and coordinated plan for the city.
(e)
The commission shall have 30 days from receipt of any requests for zoning or rezoning to submit its recommendations to the city council. Failure of the commission to submit a recommendation within that 30 days shall constitute a recommendation of approval for such request.
(Code 1990, § 17-19)
Secs. 2-352—2-375. - Reserved.
