ARTICLE III. - POLICE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-221. - Establishment of funds.
There shall be raised and established funds for the relief and pensioning of members of the police departments in said cities, who are in active service at the time of the passage of this act, and whose names are now on the payroll of such departments, and future members of such departments and their dependents, in all cities in the State of Georgia having a population of 300,000 or more, according to the United States Decennial Census of 1970, or any such future census.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2832, § 4; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2882, § 2)
Sec. 6-222. - 1978 Pension Act.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections hereof shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by the existing provisions of this act [1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended].
(b)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the board of trustees. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended.
All such officers and employees in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment, even though such provisions of law are specifically repealed as hereinafter set forth.
All regular officers or employees of the city, eligible for participation in this act, as amended, who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under provisions of this act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended act. Temporary and casual employees shall not be required to participate in this act, as amended.
(2) Pension Application; Procedure. Unless the pension applicant withdraws a pending application for pension benefits, or abandons his or her appeal from the denial of such application by the board of trustees, no new application for a different category of pension benefits shall be accepted by the board of trustees. Further, whenever an officer or employee has been granted a certain category of pension benefits, no new application for a different category shall be accepted by the board of trustees. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4381, § 1)
(c)
All officers and employees who shall elect or are required to come under the terms of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive a monthly pension benefit hereinafter set forth and referred to hereinafter as a "normal monthly pension benefit," provided such person shall have served 15 years in the active service of such city and shall have attained the age of 60 years prior to commencement of such benefit. Upon such officer or employee retiring as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter a normal monthly pension benefit equal to two percent of such person's average monthly earnings multiplied by the number of such person's years, or fraction thereof, of creditable service and that normal pension benefit shall not exceed 100 percent of such person's average monthly earnings. Average monthly earnings shall be the average of the monthly earnings of the highest three consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment. In computing the average monthly earnings, if the officer or employee shall have received a lump sum payment for compensation, accumulated vacation, sick leave bonus pay, or similar benefits, the amounts of such payments shall be equally distributed over the period of time in which such compensation or benefit was earned or accumulated.
(d)
All officers and employees, who shall elect or be required to come under the terms of this amendment, may as a matter of right retire from active service and receive an early retirement benefit, hereinafter referred to as "early monthly retirement benefit," provided such person shall have served 15 years in the active service of such city. When such officer or employee shall elect early retirement as a matter of right, such person shall be paid thereafter an early monthly retirement benefit equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-half of one percent per month for each month not to exceed 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age and one-fourth of one percent per month for each month in excess of 60 months that the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age. Provided, however, as to any officer or employee coming under the terms of this act who was in the employment of such city prior to the effective date of this amendment, such officer or employee may elect a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "reduced monthly pension benefit," provided such person shall have served 25 years and shall have attained the age of 50 years. Said reduced monthly pension benefit shall be equal to a normal monthly pension benefit less one-twelfth of three percent per month for each month the officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age.
(e)
(1) Whenever any officer or employee, electing to or having been required to come under the terms of this amendment, shall have completed at least five (5) years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 60 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate such person's employment with such city upon completion of said five (5) years, or any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which said person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 60 years of age commence to receive at said time, and be paid thereafter a monthly pension benefit, hereinafter referred to as a "vested monthly pension benefit," as set forth below based upon the number of years of completed service:
a.
Completion of 10 or more years of service-A normal monthly pension benefit (100% vested).
b.
Completion of less than 10 years of service—-the vesting schedule is as follows:
Completion of 9 years = 45%
Completion of 8 years = 40%
Completion of 7 years = 35%
Completion of 6 years = 30%
Completion of 5 years = 25%
Completion of less than 5 years = 0%
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary, as authorized by said act, as amended, by making the required payments or contribution to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city, thereby electing to exercise such person's vesting rights, and upon the death of such officer or employee, either before or after attaining 60 years of age, such beneficiary designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be entitled to a beneficiary pension equal to three-fourths (¾) of the amount the pensioner was receiving or such person would have received in accordance with the applicable provisions of this act, as amended.
(2) Pension Benefits; No Simultaneous Payment of Benefits and Salary; No Entitlement to Interest.
a.
Whenever an officer or employee has been declared eligible for pension benefits, such pension benefits shall only commence the day following the last day of paid employment for such city.
b.
In each and every instance where pension benefits shall become payable pursuant to this act, as amended, such payments shall be limited to the statutorily required amount as provided by this act, as amended, and shall be exclusive of interest or other amounts. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4381, § 5)
(f)
No department head who elects to come under the provisions of this act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this act.
(f1)
Any City of Atlanta police officer who receives a catastrophic injury in the line of duty, will receive 100% of the top salary for the grade and position that he/she occupied at the time of his/her injury.
This ordinance shall be retroactive and those persons who have received catastrophic injuries in the line of duty, while employed as City of Atlanta police officers, shall be eligible for review and adjustment of their pension in accordance with this section.
The Chief Financial Officer of the City of Atlanta shall identify any and all funding required to implement this ordinance.
(g)
(1) Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first 12 months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2) A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsection (g)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of:
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 55.
(3) Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or the officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4) Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to section (g)(2)a. or b., and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsection b., c. or d. of Ga. Laws 1978, page 4527, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost-of-living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5) Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall not affect any cost-of-living adjustments as provided in subsection (h), nor prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6) a. Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be three-fourths of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability, or three-fourths of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this act because of any provision of this act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement. No domestic partner, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such domestic partner shall have been legally registered as a domestic partner for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave day shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7) Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled but is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4381, § 3; Ord. No. 1985-94, § 9, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 1987-28, § 1, 4-8-87; Ord. No. 1994-45, § 1, 9-25-94; Ord. No. 2006-13, § 1, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 2010-42(10-O-0909), §§ 1, 2, 6-29-10)
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
1987-28 — —
1994-45 — —
  (8)
Catastrophic disability sustained in the line of duty. A sworn employee who has been injured in the line of duty, and whose permanent injury is severe or catastrophic, may make an application to the board through the City of Atlanta Department of Finance, Division of Employee Benefits. The board is thereafter authorized to make a finding, by a simple majority vote, that such in the line of duty injury is catastrophic such that the employee is disabled. In connection therewith:
a.
The determination of whether a disability was incurred "In The Line Of Duty" or "Not In The Line Of Duty" shall be made by the board in accordance with the board of trustees' investigation procedures as provided in subsection (n) hereof, below.
b.
The determination of whether a disability is catastrophic shall be in the sole discretion of the board by a preponderance of the evidence and as supported by official medical records, qualified medical expert opinions, sworn testimony and/or other such reliable source accepted by the board in its discretion. For the purposes of this Code section, a catastrophic injury is a sudden, violent, life-threatening, injury sustained by a member who is or was employed as a sworn employee by the city at the time of the injury, which injury is due to an externally caused event or events, as supported by evidence, including, but not specifically limited to, one of the conditions described below: (1) loss of sight in one or both eyes; (2) loss of one or both feet at or above the ankle; (3) loss of one or both hands at or above the wrist; (4) an injury to the spine that results in permanent and complete paralysis of both arms, both legs, or one arm and one leg, or; (5) an externally caused traumatic physical injury to the brain or skull that renders one physically or mentally unable to perform two or more activities of daily living (feeding oneself, dressing, continence, bathing, toileting and transferring, i.e. getting in and out of bed), driving a motor vehicle, etc. or catastrophically disabled includes a permanent severely disabling injury, disorder, that compromises the ability to carry out the activities of daily living to such a degree that the individual requires personal or mechanical assistance to leave home or bed or requires constant supervision to avoid physical harm to self or others.
c.
Upon a finding by the board that an officer or employee covered by the provisions of this Act meets the criteria under this subsection, the officer or employee covered by the provisions of this Act shall be entitled to receive compensation or other income from third-party sources while receiving disability pension payments and/or other benefits without suffering any penalty or otherwise forfeiting or waiving any right to continue receiving disability pension benefits the officer or employee would otherwise be entitled to receive pursuant to the pension plan.
d.
Should any individual or department of the city having an interest in the board's decision pursuant to this subsection disagree with such decision of the board, then such department may appeal from such decision as provided in subsection (n), hereof, below, and as otherwise provided by law.
e.
Any finding by the board that an individual meets the criteria of this subsection shall be subject to periodic review in accordance with subsection (g)(7)a., and any such finding may be rescinded review in accordance with subsection (g)(7)b. and only upon motion properly brought forth by a duly authorized member of the board.
f.
Any claimed injury to the mind or emotional well-being of an individual shall not serve as basis for a finding that the injury satisfies the criteria of section 1(A) but shall be presumed to be governed by existing provisions regarding non-catastrophic injuries. Any such presumption shall be considered rebuttable.
g.
The provisions of this ordinance amendment shall be retroactive to 1986.
(h)
Any person coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, shall be entitled to cost-of-living adjustments as hereinafter set forth. As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Current average cost-of-living index. The average of the monthly Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period from November 1 through October 31, prior to the annual adjustment date, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor for all items and major groups, United States city average.
(2)
Pensioner base index. The average of the Consumer Price Index for the 12 month period ending two (2) months prior to the date of retirement for any participant who retires under the provisions of this amendment. In the event the base year used in computing the monthly Consumer Price Index should be changed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the board of trustees shall, with the advice of an independent actuary, adjust the pensioner base index of each retired pensioner and of each pensioner or beneficiary, with benefit payments commencing during the first year in which such change was made, so as to effect the original intent of this section in an equitable manner.
(3)
Adjusted pensioner index. The pensioner base index, adjusted, on a cumulative basis, for all percentage adjustments made in benefits prior to the current annual adjustment date. The adjusted pensioner index and the pensioner base index shall be applicable to any beneficiary becoming entitled to benefits under this amendment in the same manner as they would have been applicable to the pensioner had such pensioner continued in life.
(4)
Annual adjustment date. January 1 of each year. The board of trustees shall ascertain the current average cost-of-living index as of January 1 each year, and the benefits being paid under this amendment shall be adjusted as of the annual adjustment date as follows: If the current average cost-of-living index is more than 100 percent of the adjusted pensioner index, the benefit shall be increased by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by such person's adjusted pensioner index. If the current average cost-of-living index is less than 100% of the adjusted pensioner index, such person's basic benefit shall be reduced by a percentage equal to the difference between 100 percent and the percentage representing the current average cost-of-living index divided by his adjusted pensioner index. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, no increase or decrease in the amount of the monthly retirement benefit due to changes in the current average cost-of-living index, effective at any annual adjustment date, shall be in excess of three percent (3%) of the amount of the monthly retirement benefit payable immediately prior to such date. Neither shall the provisions of this subsection be applied so as to reduce the amount of the benefits of a pensioner or beneficiary to any amount less than that to which such pensioner or beneficiary would be entitled to receive under the other provisions of this amendment.
(i)
There shall be deducted from the total salary of any officer or employee electing to come under this amendment the sum of seven percent (7%), in the event such person does not provide for payment of a pension to such person's beneficiary, as authorized by this act, as amended, or a sum to be actuarially determined pursuant to the most recent actuary study, sufficient to cover the cost of providing a continuing pension benefit to such person's beneficiary. Like deductions shall be made from the salary of future employees required to come under this amendment.
(j)
(1) In addition to the payments required to be made in subsection (i) above, any officer or employee who becomes a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years, or fraction thereof, of such person's creditable service, provided such person shall pay into the fund the sum of six percent (6%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received by such person during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary; and the sum of seven percent (7%) of such person's total salary or earnings, received during the years claimed for such creditable service, if such person does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund, not exceeding the amount due to the fund, shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total payment due, plus any additional sums as may be required by the following provisions for prior service credits. If any part of the creditable service consists of prior service, as defined by this act, as amended, which was allowed and credited prior to this amendment, the percentages of salary or earnings, used in computing the sum to be paid for such prior service credit shall be twice those set forth above, and shall constitute both the employee and employer contributions. Provided further that payment for any such creditable service rendered on or after April 1, 1978, shall be twice the payment due as computed above.
Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment within six (6) months subsequent to the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, without interest. Any officer or employee electing to come under the provisions of this amendment, subsequent to the expiration of six (6) months after the enactment of this amendment, shall have a period of 60 months from the date of such election in which to pay all back pension contributions, as provided in this subsection, and shall be required to pay interest on said back pension contributions at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from October 1, 1978, to the date of such payment. The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above specified time period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(2) Employee Back Pension Contributions, Deductions From Benefits; Assignment of Group Life Insurance Proceeds.
a.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
b.
In the event an officer or employee obligated to pay back pension contributions should retire before said payments into the fund are completed, the board of trustees shall require, in consideration of the payment of such indebtedness, an assignment of such officer's or employee's group life insurance in an amount sufficient to satisfy the outstanding obligation. (1981 Ga. Laws, page 4381, § 4)
(k)
(1) Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment shall be entitled to all of the forms and types of prior service authorized under the act approved August 20, 1927 (1927 Ga. Laws, page 265 et seq.) as amended, prior to this amendment. Provided, however, contributions for any such prior service shall be based on the salary or wages then being earned by such officer or employee as and when such person becomes eligible for such prior service and such is credited.
To be eligible for such prior service credit, the officer or employee must have completed at least five (5) continuous years in the employment of the city, and must have filed, five (5) years prior thereto, an application with the board of trustees for such prior service credit. Thereafter prior service credit may be granted to such person eligible and continuing in the service of such city on a pay period basis (one (1) year of prior service credit, not to exceed a maximum of 10 years, for each year such person continues in the service of such city) upon the payment of contributions by such person for such prior service credit based on the wages or salary earned by such person at the time of such prior service being credited.
The contributions to be paid by such officer or employee, herein referred to, shall be at the rates set forth in subsection (i) above, plus the rates of the employer's contribution set forth in subsection (m).
(2) Credit for previous city service, contributions, payment. Any officer or employee claiming previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be eligible for previous service credit immediately upon filing application for same, and upon payment of the contribution in accordance with the provisions set forth in subsection (I) of the 1978 Pension Act Amendment (Ga. Laws 1978, pages 4527, 4534) [subsection (j) of this section]; provided, however, the penalty provision of said subsection (I) shall be applicable only to such officers or employees who failed to elect enrollment under said 1978 Pension Act Amendment prior to October 1, 1978, and who terminated employment subsequent to April 1, 1978. The total amount of such required contributions shall be increased by a sum equal to the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. The total amount of such required contributions, less a sum equal to the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and withdrawn upon termination of employment, shall be increased by an amount equal to such required contributions, less the said amount withdrawn multiplied by an interest factor of seven percent (7%) per annum compounded from the date of termination or October 1, 1978, whichever is later to the date of application. The total amount of such required contribution shall be decreased by the amount previously paid into the pension fund by a regular officer or employee and not withdrawn upon termination of employment plus an amount equal to seven percent (7%) per annum compounded of such amount not withdrawn from the date of termination to the date of filing of the application. As to credit for part-time or temporary service with the city, such previous service credit shall be on the basis of one (1) day for each day worked by such person as a temporary employee or on a part-time basis; except that the required contribution shall be based upon the gross salary of such person at the time of filing of the application for previous service credit. The payment of the contributions of previous service credit for previous employment as a regular, temporary, or part-time employee of the city may be paid upon the filing of the application for such credit; or such officer or employee shall have a period of sixty (60) months from the date of filing the application in which to pay such contributions; provided, however, the total amount of such contribution shall bear interest at seven percent (7%) per annum on the unpaid balance.
The board of trustees is authorized to establish rules and regulations for extending the period in which back pension contributions may be paid provided that interest in the amount of seven percent (7%) per annum shall be added to any amounts not paid within the above-specified period. The board of trustees shall require as a prerequisite for the granting of such extension an assignment of life insurance in an amount sufficient to cover the outstanding obligation.
(l)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective as of April 1, 1978, except for the provisions of subsection (m) which shall be effective as of January 1, 1979. Payments required by subsection (i) above, as to those persons then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall commence on April 1, 1978. As to such persons subsequently coming into the service of such city or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the date of employment or date of such election.
(m)
(1)
In addition to the funds derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (i) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund each year an amount which shall be equal to the actuarially determined percentage of members' salary and wages necessary to pay the normal cost contribution of benefits earned by members and to amortize the unfunded accrued liability of the pension fund on a closed 30-year schedule commencing July 1, 2011, after deducting contributions required of officers and employees required by subsection (i) of this amendment.
For purposes of paying the required employer contributions provided above, the governing authority of such cities shall be authorized to levy ad valorem taxes payable to the pension fund sufficient to amortize the unfunded accrued liability under provisions of this amendment within a closed schedule of thirty (30) years commencing July 1, 2011, and upon the determination by an independent actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below that such unfunded accrued liability has been amortized, such authorization to levy such ad valorem taxes shall cease. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pension due to such officers and employees, the governing authority shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency as it relates to the respective officers and employees and deposit same into said pension fund. Should such actuarial valuation as provided in subsection (n) below result in a determination that the total required employer contribution would be less than the contribution required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment, then the contributions required of members by subsection (i) of this amendment shall be reduced and the required employer contributions in this subsection shall be increased so that the member contributions required by subsection (i) will not be greater than the required employer contributions under this subsection.
(2)
Every three (3) years and prior to submitting the annual fiscal budget for that third year, the Chief Financial Officer for the City of Atlanta shall review and prepare for the chair of the finance executive committee and the boards of trustees a report on the effect the amortization schedule has upon the actuarial accrued liability for the pension funds.
(n)
When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which such person would have been entitled had such person continued in active service shall be continued for two years by such city and paid to the primary beneficiary designated by such officer or employee. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the two-years' compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the two-year period referred to above, the pension benefits due the beneficiary shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of this amendment. The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiaries upon the death or ineligibility of the primary beneficiary.
The city employing any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this Act shall immediately notify the board of trustees upon the occurrence of the disability or death of any such officer or employee, and the board of trustees shall conduct an investigation within ninety (90) days of the date of the event which caused such disability or death.
Thereafter, the board of trustees shall make a determination as to whether such disability or death was incurred in line of duty or not in line of duty. Should such city, or any person having an interest in said decision, disagree with such decision of the board then either such city or such person may appeal from such decision as provided by law.
It shall also be the duty and responsibility of the board of trustees to employ an independent actuary to render an actuarial review of the pension fund at periodic intervals of no more than five (5) years, commencing with the enactment of this amendment. The term "independent actuary" as used herein means a fellow of the Society of Actuaries, or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or an organization of which one or more members is a fellow of the Society of Actuaries or a member of the American Academy of Actuaries, or both.
(o)
The board of trustees is authorized to invest funds accumulated under this act in any manner permitted by the Public Retirement Systems Investment Authority Law, Ga. Stat. Ann. section 47-20-80, et seq., as amended.
(Ord. No. 1992-45, § 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 9, 3-24-94; Ord. No. 1996-37, § 1, 6-10-96; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 2, 11-22-05; Ord. No. 2009-27(09-O-0776), § 2, 6-23-09; Ord. No. 2011-15(11-O-0674), § 2, 5-9-11)
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1992-45 — —
1994-13 — —
  (p)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this act, as amended, regarding the rights of officers or employees to designate beneficiaries of their pension benefits after their death, every male or female officer, coming under the provisions of this amendment, either voluntarily or by compulsion, having a spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years or domestic partner shall be compelled to make the necessary additional contributions in order to provide continued pension benefits for such spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) or under the age of 18 years, and designated as beneficiaries domestic partner.
Nothing herein provided shall prevent an officer or employee from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age) or domestic partner and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under 18 years of age or domestic partner and not named as primary beneficiary). If an officer or employee designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the member's death, then such officer or employee may at his or her option, designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this amendment, and continue to make contributions for such beneficiaries, or should no qualified beneficiary exist, cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this act, as amended.
Should any officer or employee become eligible for a service pension and thereafter remain in the service of such city, then upon the death of such person, without having retired, the spouse or domestic partner of such person may apply for a beneficiary pension as provided for in this amendment, which shall continue for the life of such spouse or domestic partner. In the event of the death or disqualification of a spouse or domestic partner to receive such beneficiary pension, then the unmarried child or children (natural or legally adopted) under the age of 18 years shall succeed to the rights of such deceased or disqualified spouse or domestic partner, as above provided, and such beneficiary pension shall be continued to such child or children until the youngest living child shall reach the age of 18 years, die, or marry, whichever event should first occur. No child (natural or legally adopted) of such officer or employee shall be entitled to receive any benefits unless such child is less than 18 years of age and unmarried or unless such child is less than 23 years of age and enrolled as a full-time student at an accredited secondary school, college or university, and unmarried.
Any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment either voluntarily or by compulsion, who, at such time, has no qualified beneficiary, either spouse or unmarried child or children under 18 years of age or domestic partner, shall not be required to make the contributions necessary to provide for the continuation of pension benefits to a beneficiary. Provided, however, upon the occurrence of the event by which such officer or employee acquires a qualified beneficiary, then such officer or employee shall immediately commence making required contributions to provide benefits for such beneficiary and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension fund one percent (1%) of his total salary or earnings for all creditable service prior to the occurrence of such event.
Any officer or employee, electing to come under the provisions of this act, who prior thereto had a qualified beneficiary but who had not made the contributions to provide for the payment of continued pension benefits to such beneficiary, shall be required to pay to the pension fund the amount of such beneficiary contributions for the number of years of service with such city and during which such officer or employee had a qualified beneficiary, such payments to be at the rates and in the manner as set forth in subsection (j) hereof.
In the event that a member dies after retirement, either before or after receiving retirement payments, the named beneficiary, or the member's estate in the absence of a named beneficiary, shall receive a refund in an amount equal to the amount such member paid into said pension fund less the total amount received by such member or beneficiaries in retirement benefits. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 10, 12-19-85; Ord. No. 2006-13, § 2, 3-23-06)
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the
location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
  (q)
The board of trustees may pool any amount of the funds administered by them with the funds of any other pension or retirement fund for other employees of such city for the purpose of joint investments. When such pooling occurs, the pooled trust funds shall be accounted for in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting in order to maintain the separate accountability of such pension funds. The board of trustees may employ an independent investment counselor who shall advise them on the best and most appropriate portfolio of investments.
(r)
Should an officer or employee in the employment of such cities transfer from a position of employment covered by another pension fund to a position of employment covered by this pension fund, the accumulated employee and employer contributions of such officer or employee paid to such other pension fund shall be transferred to this pension fund and such officer or employee shall be credited with all creditable service certified in such other pension fund as though such service had been rendered under this pension fund, provided, however, that should such officer or employee retire as a matter of right within three (3) years subsequent to the date of such transfer, the service retirement benefits payable to such officer or employee shall be the lesser of the service retirement payable under the provisions of this act, as amended, or the provisions of the pension fund from which such officer or employee transferred.
(s)
Any employee participating in the provisions of the act approved February 15, 1933 (Ga. Laws 1933, page 213 et seq.) [this section], or of the several acts amendatory thereof, who leaves the employ of such municipality prior to retirement shall be entitled to a refund of all monies paid into such fund by said employee; provided, however, that such refunds shall be subject to withholding or deduction for any debts owed or amounts due to such municipality by such ex-employee.
(t)
The terms of this amendment to said act shall apply to any member who meets the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Any officer who has received an in-line-of-duty disability pension from the police officer's pension fund prior to November 13, 1987; and
(2)
Thereafter has been reemployed by the city in the police department.
(3)
Any such employee meeting the aforementioned conditions shall make application for such credit within 90 days of the enactment of this amendment or within 90 days of their return to work, whichever is later.
(4)
Such employee may receive credit toward retirement for the years they received and in-line-of-duty disability pension.
(5)
The maximum credit to be received under this amendment at the time of retirement is limited to the number of years an employee works after being reemployed. (Ord. No. 1993-41, § 1, 9-7-93)
(u)
Subject to approval by the United States Internal Revenue Service in accordance with IRC section 414(h), employee contributions shall be treated as employer contributions in determining tax treatment effective with the following payroll periods in 1994:
EXPAND
Groups I, III, IV, VI Pay period 6
Group II Pay period 11
Group V Pay period 3
  Such contributions shall not be included as gross income of the employee for tax purposes until such time as they are distributed or made available. The City of Atlanta shall reduce the compensation payable to a member in an amount of the contributions made on behalf of the employee.
(v)
Any officer or employee who retires pursuant to this section between August 15, 1994, and September 30, 1994, and whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 75 years, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable. Provided further that such officer or employee shall receive a benefit calculated by adding three (3) years to their service.
Entitlements specified under subsection (v), above, shall be accorded to those officers and employees not covered by the aforesaid 1978 pension amendment, under applicable provisions of amendments to said law adopted prior to the 1978 amendment.
(w)
Any officer or employee whose age and creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 73 years as of March 31, 1998, shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
All officers and employees eligible to retire pursuant to this section must make written application to the pension office between February 13, 1998 and March 31, 1998.
(x)
Any officer or employee who was eligible to elect coverage under the pension laws as amended by Ordinance No. 1985-94 and who failed to make such election may do so by making written application on forms provided by the pension office within 60 days of the effective date of this subsection.
(y)
Any officer or employee who is a member of the Police Pension Fund, and whose creditable service before credit for accrued unused sick leave equals at least 30 years shall be entitled to a monthly pension benefit upon retirement without any reduction for any age or vesting penalties as would otherwise be applicable.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3616, §§ 1, 2; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3623, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3635, § 1; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 3208, §§ 1, 2; Ord. No. 1994-11, § 3, 3-14-94; Ord. No. 1994-37, § 3, 8-1-94; Ord. No. 1994-45, § 1, 9-25-94; Ord. No. 1998-2, § 1, 2-10-98; Ord. No. 1998-5, § 3, 2-23-98; Ord. No. 2000-2, § 1, 1-11-00; Ord. No. 2001-17, § 1, 2-24-01; Ord. No. 2001-67, § 1, 9-25-01; Ord. No. 2003-54, §§ 1—3, 2-25-03; Ord. No. 2005-53, § 4, 9-12-05; Ord. No. 2005-69, § 1, 10-25-05; Ord. No. 2005-81, § 2, 11-22-05; Ord. No. 2006-62, § 1, 9-26-06)
Sec. 6-223. - Consent by applicant to participate in system.
The receipt of an applicant's executed enrollment or application card by the commissioner of finance or his agent shall constitute the irrevocable consent of the applicant to participate under the provisions of this act, as amended, or as may hereinafter be amended.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3205, § 1)
Sec. 6-224. - Refunds regulated.
Except upon the separation of employment other than retirement or death of an employee, or in the case of bookkeeping, clerical or data processing errors, the refund of pension contributions paid by an employee shall be prohibited.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3205, § 2)
Sec. 6-225. - Tax on salaries of policemen.
Beginning April 1, 1945, three per centum (3%) shall be deducted from the salaries or wages of all members of said police department up to a maximum of $200 per month, or a total of $6.00 per month, but if the member desires to name either his wife or dependent mother or minor child or children as beneficiary, he may do so and in that case, there shall be deducted the sum of four per centum (4%) from his salary or wage up to a maximum of $200 or a total of $8.00 per month, as and when paid. If the person does not name a beneficiary on or before April 1, 1945, but later decides to name a beneficiary, he shall pay the additional one percent (1%) up to a maximum of $2.00 per month, from April 1, 1945, or the date of his entry into the police department, whichever shall be the latest date; provided, however, that the widow shall not be eligible to receive the pension benefits of the deceased pensioner unless she married such member at least one (1) year before he became eligible to retire by reason of length of service.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 9; 1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 4; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 8)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-226. - Appropriations for fund.
The budget commission and the mayor and general council of such city shall appropriate from any funds available the sum of $90,000 per annum and shall pay said amount into the pension fund created under the provisions of this act during the month of January of each year. The mayor and general council shall not treat any funds whatsoever paid into the pension fund created under the provisions of the act as receipts for the purposes of computing funds due the school department under the charter of such city.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 10; 1941 Ga. Laws, page 476, § 3)
Sec. 6-227. - Appropriations by city.
Should said fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pensions due to such members, such governing authorities shall appropriate from current funds other than funds derived from ad valorem taxation sufficient amounts to make up the deficiency as it relates to such members.
(1963 Ga. Laws, page 2893, § 2)
Sec. 6-228. - Maintenance of fund.
The city treasurer, or other person performing the duties of such, shall keep separate and apart from other monies in his possession the funds raised under the provisions of sections 8, 9 and 10 of this act, as amended, and all other funds, which may be received by him in connection with the provisions of this act, as amended.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 12; 1953 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2717, § 2)
Sec. 6-229. - Right of retirement; computation of service.
Every member of such police department who has stood civil service examination and has been passed by the civil service board, and whose names are [sic] on the payroll of such police department at the time of the passage of said act and future members of such department may, as a matter of right, retire from active service, provided he shall have served 25 years in active service at the time of his retirement. The time of service shall be determined from the payroll records in the office of the city comptroller.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 2; 1941 Ga. Laws, page 476, § 1; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-230. - Credit for prior service; terms, conditions.
Any person qualified for pension benefits under this act, as amended, who was employed by the State of Georgia or a political subdivision thereof, prior to his employment by such city, to render service within the county in which such city is located in whole or in part, may receive credit for such service for pension benefits under this act, as amended, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
No credit may be given for part-time or temporary service.
(2)
Such person must have had at least five (5) years' continuous service with the city, before becoming eligible for this credit.
(3)
Application must be made for the credit within six (6) months after the passage of this act or after becoming eligible for the credit, whichever is later.
(4)
Such person shall pay into the pension fund created by this act, as amended, an amount equal to the amount he would have paid into such fund had he been an employee of such city during such time. The payments may be divided into 36 equal installments bearing interest at four percent (4%) per annum, and the amounts thereof deducted from any compensation of pension benefits due such person.
(5)
It shall be the responsibility of the person making application for such credit to furnish to the board of trustees proof of the years of service and the monthly rate of compensation in such manner as the board may by rules prescribe.
(6)
The total amount of creditable service as provided in this act shall not exceed 10 years.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2046, § 5; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 5)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. Section 7 of the 1957 act provides for liberal construction of same.
Sec. 6-231. - Status of member not desiring to retire after becoming eligible.
In the event a member has served for 25 years as a member of such police department and does not desire to retire on pension under the provisions of this act; and the board of trustees deems such member incapable of further service in said police department because of disability or impairment of health, then and in that event the same procedure shall be had as that described in sections 6-320 and 6-321, to determine the condition of said member, and the decision of a majority of the physicians examining said member shall be final on the question which they decide.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 14)
Sec. 6-232. - Eligibility to retire of policemen employed on or after April 1, 1945.
All persons becoming members of such police department on or after April 1, 1945, must attain 55 years of age and have served a minimum of 25 years to be eligible to retire as a matter of right; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply in cases of actual total and permanent disability nor to any members of said department as of March 31, 1945, but shall apply solely to those employed or becoming members of said department after March 31, 1945.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-233. - Retirement age and service required for policemen employed on or after April 1, 1945.
Every person who became a member of the police department since April 1, 1945 and all persons becoming members of such department in the future must attain 55 years of age and must serve a minimum of 25 years to be eligible to retire as a matter of right, provided, that this provision shall not apply in cases of actual total and permanent disability.
(1952 Ga. Laws, page 2559, § 4)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-234. - Policemen must pass civil service examination.
Each and every member of such police department shall pass a civil service examination as may be required by the governing authorities of such cities before he can be taxed three dollars ($3.00) per month as provided in this act, and before he can become entitled to participate in any of the funds raised under the provisions of this act for relief and pensions.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 24; 1941 Ga. Laws, page 476, § 6)
Sec. 6-235. - Time lost due to suspension for cause or leave of absence.
Should any member of such police department be suspended for cause, and the suspension without pay approved by the police committee, or should he be on leave of absence without pay, the time so spent under suspension or on leave without pay shall not be counted in the time required for a pension because of service in such department under the provisions of this act, and no payment into the pension fund shall be required for the time under suspension or on leave without pay.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 5; 1941 Ga. Laws, page 476, § 2)
Sec. 6-236. - Rights of employees transferring from one department to another; application of provisions.
Whenever any officer or employee of such city is transferred from one department to another, he shall be entitled to become a member of the pension fund of the department to which he has been transferred and to receive credit for the years of service in the department from which he has been transferred by paying the pension fund of the department to which he is transferred the amount of premiums he would have paid into said fund if he had been a member of said department for the number of years he claims credit for service in the other department. Such transferred employee shall have the right to have transferred from the pension fund the amount he had paid into such fund. The rights given in this act shall be effective as to the officers and employees who have transferred prior to this act, as well as future transferees. This act shall apply to all the pension funds of such city, namely the police officer's pension fund, and firemen's[fighter's] pension fund and the general employees' pension fund.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 5; Ord. No. 1993-41, § 4, 9-7-93)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-237. - Rights of county policemen transferred to city.
Whenever a member of any police department in any county in which such a city is located is transferred to such city from such county, he shall have all the rights, privileges and benefits of any member of such police department set forth in this act as amended upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
There shall be paid into the pension fund of any such city an amount equal to the amount paid into the county pension fund by such county employee and an equal amount to represent the fund required to be paid into such county pension fund by the county authorities;
(2)
Such transferred officer or employee shall receive the same credit for service that he would have received under the pension plan applicable to such employee at the time of transfer from the county to the city. Every such officer and employee may, as a matter of right, retire from active service provided his service to the city, when added to his county credit, would have authorized him to retire under the county pension plan;
(3)
Such transferred employee shall have all other rights, privileges and benefits provided in this act, as amended, and shall be required to contribute to the pension fund the same amounts required of other members of the police departments of such cities;
(4)
Whenever a minor child or children of a policeman who transfers from the county to the city shall be entitled to be paid a pension, the same shall be paid for the same length of time such pension would have been payable under the county pension law, to-wit, until reaching the age of 18 years.
(1951 Ga. Laws, page 3057, § 1; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2559, § 1; 1960 Ga. Laws, page 3205, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 3193, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-238. - Service in the armed forces; generally.
Service in the armed forces of the United States, under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States, shall, for the purpose of service pension rights established by this act, be considered service to any such city, upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Such officer or employee must have been inducted into such armed forces, either voluntarily or involuntarily, under any act applicable thereto, when there is at the time of such induction an actual conflict or such induction is mandatory under the applicable law;
(2)
Such officer or employee must have been on the payrolls of any such city and in good standing at the time of such induction;
(3)
Such officer or employee shall not voluntarily extend his term of service beyond the termination of the conflict or beyond the time when he could retire from such service;
(4)
Such officer or employee shall make application for reemployment to his former position within the time required by the charter of any such city for the reemployment of such officers or employees;
(5)
Dishonorable discharge from such armed forces shall terminate all rights under this amendment; and
(6)
Such officer or employee, upon his return to the service of such city from service in the armed forces, shall make the same contributions to the said pension fund for the time served in the armed forces as he would have made if he had been in active service of the city, but shall be permitted to make such contributions in equal monthly installments within a period of time equal to the time served in such armed forces.
(1953 Ga. Laws, page 2629, § 1)
Sec. 6-239. - Same; officers and employees serving in Korean conflict or subsequent thereto.
Any officer or employee who was inducted into the service of the armed forces of the United States under the Department of Defense, or service in the Coast Guard of the United States either during the Korean conflict or subsequent thereto, or shall have served in the Navy in connection with such service shall be given full credit for the time served in such service as though he were actually employed during that time by the city and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund for such period of service provided such employee meets the conditions set forth in section 6-238, except he shall not be required to make contributions as provided in subsection (f) [subsection (6)] thereof.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 3379, § 1; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2635, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-240. - Same; method of receiving credit for military leave.
All members of said police department who are on approved military leave from active employment service may receive service credit toward retirement by making the same contribution to the said pension fund as they would have made if they had been on active employment service where a leave of absence from active employment service has been granted to one on military leave. Said contribution shall be paid within 36 months after reassignment to active police duty. No credit will be allowed to any member who voluntarily reenlists in the military service after the end of said leave for the period of reenlistment unless he be granted an additional military leave by the proper authority.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 6)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-241. - Subsistence allowances to be treated as compensation in fixing benefits and obligations.
Subsistence allowances, which have been or may be provided by law or the ordinances of any such city, shall be treated as compensation in the determination of benefits and obligations of such employees as though such sums were definitely fixed by the governing authorities of such cities as compensation or salary.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 3379, § 2)
Sec. 6-242. - Service prerequisite to disability benefits.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive such benefits after he has been in the active employment of the city for a period of 10 years.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 6)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-243. - Type of rights created.
The rights herein created shall not be construed as rights under a contract, but the rate and amount of pension fixed under said act, as amended, shall be subjected to reduction by the legislature in the future; provided however, said reduction shall not be below the rate or amount fixed by the act of 1933.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 8)
Sec. 6-244. - Spendthrift provisions.
None of the funds herein mentioned shall be subject to the process of garnishment, attachment, judgment or other legal process, nor shall any of the funds to be paid or disbursed under the provisions of this act be assignable, but the same shall be paid in cash to the beneficiary entitled thereto, if requested by him or her.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 17)
Sec. 6-245. - Reemployment of pensioners.
(a)
Any officer or employee of the police departments of such cities who has applied for and been granted a service pension shall be eligible for reemployment or reappointment to any position in the government of such cities, provided such person has not reached the age of 70 years, such reemployment in any position to terminate at the end of the year in which such person reaches age 70. Such reemployment shall be made under the provisions relating to reemployment of former employees as now provided by law or ordinance, except that such reemployed person shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights during such period of reemployment, shall not be paid a pension during such period, and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund during such period of reemployment. The payment of his pension shall be resumed as of the date of termination of such period of reemployment. No such reemployment shall be effective until the person to be reemployed under the provisions of this section shall execute and deliver to the comptroller of any such cities a contract agreeing to the conditions hereof.
(b)
Nothing herein contained shall prevent any retired officer or employee of the police departments of such cities from holding any position which is filled by an election by the people. No additional pensions or civil service rights or privileges shall accrue to such officer or employee during such period.
(c)
The provisions of this act as amended shall not in any way affect or restrict the rights, powers and privileges of an emeritus officer of such cities who now or shall hereafter hold an emeritus office pursuant to the provisions of any law or ordinance establishing same.
(d)
Whenever by contract with a city or one of its agencies, boards or commissions, a retired person, regardless of age and as an independent contractor, agrees to perform a special or particular service, as may be now or hereafter allowed by law or ordinance, then such person, during the term of such contract which shall not exceed one (1) calendar year, shall be entitled to continue to receive his or her regular pension payments, but shall not acquire any civil service rights or any further pension rights, and shall not be required to make any contribution to the pension fund; provided however, no such contract shall be effective until a fully executed copy of such contract, in which such retired person agrees to the conditions hereof, has been delivered by such person to the secretary of the board of trustees of the pension fund.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2885, §§ 1—3; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 3394, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 2348, § 1)
Sec. 6-246. - Effect on workers' compensation laws.
Except as provided in subsection (F) of 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 et seq., this act shall not affect nor be affected by any workers' compensation law, or other similar laws. Further, no decisions of the state board of workers' compensation shall be entered as evidence with a pension application before the board of trustees of said pension fund, nor shall said board consider any evidence pertaining to the applicant's previously determined entitlement to workers' compensation in any hearing upon a pension application.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 23; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 5)
Sec. 6-247. - Computations of time; fractional parts of years to be counted.
Whenever this law, or any amendment of this law, requires a computation, for any purpose of the years of creditable service of any active or retiring member, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213 et seq.; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 319)
Sec. 6-248. - Salary and earnings.
For the purposes of determining any benefit or contribution under this Act, 1924 Ga. Laws, page 167, as amended, the "salary," "earnings" or "wages" or "total" "salary," "earnings" or "wages" of an officer or employee of the City of Atlanta for any period shall include the base wages or salary paid to such officer or employee (including lump-sum payments thereof); amounts contributed or deferred by the officer or employee and not includable in gross income under sections 125, 132(f) or 457 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); amounts contributed by the officer or employee to a governmental qualified retirement plan and treated as employer contributions under Code section 414(h); and amounts credited to the officer or employee for furlough hours. Such salary, earnings or wages shall not include the following amounts: disability insurance payments to an officer or employee; travel, mileage or automobile-related allowances or reimbursements; bonuses (other than sick-leave bonuses) or performance awards; overtime or premium payments; or any other special, unusual or nonrecurring payment.
The City of Atlanta may amend this provision at any time to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. No. 1985-71, § 2, 11-12-85; Ord. No. 2004-84, § II(1), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-88, § 1, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-88 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2004.
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-71 — —
  Sec. 6-249. - Distribution requirements.
(a)
The requirements of this section shall apply to the distribution of all benefits under this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, and will take precedence over any inconsistent provisions of this act.
(b)
All distributions required under this section will be determined and made in accordance with section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code'), including the incidental death benefit requirements of Code section 401(a)(9)(G), and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
The entire benefit of an officer or employee under this act will be distributed beginning not later than his required beginning date over the life of such officer or employee or, if applicable, over the lives of such officer or employee and a designated beneficiary. `Required beginning date' shall mean April 1 of the calendar year following the later of (1) the calendar year in which the officer or employee attains age 70½ or (2) the calendar year in which the officer or employee terminates employment.
(d)
If the distribution of a benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above and the officer or employee dies before his entire benefit has been distributed to him, the remaining portion of such benefit will be distributed at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution being used as of the date of his death.
(e)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with subsection (c) above, his interest will be distributed to his designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)) over a period not extending beyond the life or life expectancy of such beneficiary, beginning not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year of the officer's or employee's death. If such benefit is payable to (or for the benefit of) his surviving spouse or registered domestic partner, the date on which the distributions are required to begin shall not be earlier than December 31 of the calendar year in which the officer or employee would have attained age 70½. If the spouse or registered domestic partner dies before the distribution to such spouse or registered domestic partner is made or begun, this subsection (e) shall be applied as if the surviving spouse or registered domestic partner were the officer or employee.
(f)
If an officer or employee dies before the distribution of his benefit has begun in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section and the officer or employee does not have a designated beneficiary (as defined in Code section 401(a)(9)(E)), the officer's or employee's benefit, if any, shall be distributed in a single lump-sum payment by December 31 of the year in which occurs the five-year anniversary of the officer's or employee's death.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(2), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 2, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-13, § 3, 3-23-06)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-250. - Limitation on benefits.
(a)
Basic limitation. Notwithstanding any provision of this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, to the contrary, the amount of an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit, calculated as a single life annuity commencing before age 62 or after age 65, shall not exceed $160,000.00, as adjusted as of the first day of each limitation year to the dollar limitation determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury under the authority granted by section 415(d) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") (the "maximum permissible dollar amount"). For purposes of this section, the term "limitation year" shall mean the calendar year.
As of each January 1, the dollar limitation as determined by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for that calendar year will become effective as the maximum permissible dollar amount for that calendar year. The dollar limitation applicable to officers and employees who have commenced distribution of their benefit shall be adjusted annually to reflect any changes to the maximum permissible dollar amount.
Employee contributions treated as employer contributions made pursuant to section 6-37(u) shall be considered a part of the benefit subject to the limitations of this section. Officer or employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers shall be subject to the rules of section 6-94. Employee contributions not made pursuant to section 6-37(u) and not made for credit for prior service with certain other employers shall be converted to an annual benefit amount pursuant to Code section 411(c)(2)(B) and shall be subtracted from the total annual benefit subject to the limitations of this subsection (a), provided that such contributions shall be considered to be a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta and subject to the limitations of Code section 415(c).
If the form of payment under the act is other than a straight-life annuity (with no ancillary benefits), or if the officer or employee has made mandatory or voluntary contributions or rollover contributions, or if any portion of the payment is attributable to assets transferred to the fund from another qualified plan not maintained by the City of Atlanta, the benefit shall be adjusted so that it is actuarially equivalent to a straight-life annuity with no ancillary benefits. For purposes of adjusting any benefit, the actuarially equivalent amount shall be the greater of: (i) the annual amount of the straight life annuity (if any) payable to the officer or employee under the act commencing at the same annuity starting date as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee; or (ii) the annual amount of the straight life annuity commencing at the same annuity starting date that has the same actuarial present value as the form of benefit payable to the officer or employee, computed using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. No actuarial adjustment shall be required to reflect the value of any of the following: (A) that portion of any joint and survivor annuity that constitutes a qualified joint and survivor annuity (as defined in Code section 417); (B) benefits that are not directly related to retirement benefits, such as pre-retirement disability and death benefits, and post-retirement medical benefits; and (C) post-retirement cost-of-living increases made in accordance with Code section 415(d) and the regulations thereunder.
The provisions of this section 6-93 shall be applied in accordance with the rules of Code section 415 and the regulations thereunder, and the relevant provisions of the regulations are incorporated by reference herein. If payments to or on behalf of an officer or employee begin on multiple dates, the rules of this Section 6-93 shall be applied on each such date to the relevant portion of the benefit.
(b)
Exception to basic limitation. If the annual retirement benefit payable to an officer or employee under this act does not exceed $10,000.00 for the limitation year with respect to which a determination is being made or any prior limitation year, and the City of Atlanta has not at any time maintained a defined contribution plan (as determined pursuant to the Code section 415(d) regulations) in which the officer or employee has participated, the limitation otherwise imposed by subsection (a) shall not apply. For purposes of determining whether any officer or employee has ever participated in a defined contribution plan, mandatory employee contributions to any defined benefit plan maintained by the City of Atlanta are not to be treated as a separate defined contribution plan maintained by the City of Atlanta.
(c)
Reduction for fewer than ten years of participation. If an officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this act for fewer than ten years, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall be adjusted by multiplying such limitation by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of the officer's or employee's years of participation as of such date (and any fraction thereof) and the denominator of which is ten. The foregoing reduction shall not apply to (1) disability retirement benefits received by an officer or employee under this act or (2) death benefits received by an officer's or employee's beneficiary under this act.
(d)
Actuarial adjustment when benefits commence before age 62 or after age 65. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences before he attains age 62, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be reduced so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount that would be applicable if the retirement benefit had commenced at age 62.
The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit payable under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 62, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table. To the extent that benefits will not be forfeited upon the death of the officer or employee, the mortality decrement shall be ignored for purposes of determining any reduction in the dollar limitation. If any benefits are forfeited upon death the full mortality decrement shall be taken into account. If an officer's or employee's annual retirement benefit commences after age 65, the maximum permissible dollar amount for the limitation year shall be increased so that it is the actuarial equivalent of the maximum permissible dollar amount at age 65. The actuarially equivalent amount shall be equal to the lesser of: (A) the maximum permissible dollar amount multiplied by the ratio of the annual retirement benefit under the act at the time payments are scheduled to commence, disregarding accruals after age 65 and without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, to the annual retirement benefit commencing at age 65, without regard to the limits of this section 6-93, and (B) the actuarially equivalent amount determined using a five percent interest rate and the applicable mortality table.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum permissible dollar amount shall not be reduced by reason of the commencement of annual retirement benefits before age 62 for (1) any full-time officer or employee with at least 15 years of full-time service with any police or fire department that is organized and operated by the City of Atlanta, (2) disability retirement benefits paid to an officer or employee pursuant to this act or (3) a death benefit paid to a beneficiary pursuant to this act.
(e)
Applicable mortality table. On or after January 1, 2008, "applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table specified by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to Code section 417(e)(3)(B). Before January 1, 2008, "applicable mortality table" shall mean the mortality table prescribed by Revenue Ruling 2001-62, 2001-2 C.B. 632 or any successor revenue ruling, notice or other guidance provided by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that establishes a replacement mortality table pursuant to Code section 415(b)(2)(E)(v).
(f)
Preservation of old law benefits. In the case of an officer or employee who participated in one or more defined benefit plans of the City of Atlanta as of the first day of the first limitation year beginning after December 31, 1994, the application of the limitations of this section shall not cause the maximum permissible benefit for such officer or employee under all such defined benefit plans to be less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit.
For officers or employees with RPA '94 Old-Law Benefits, for purposes of determining whether an officer's or employee's benefit exceeds the limitations of this section after December 31, 1999 (the "RPA '94 Freeze Date"), an officer's or employee's total annual benefit under the act calculated as a straight life annuity shall be determined, and this benefit shall not exceed the maximum permissible dollar amount applicable to the officer or employee. Where an officer's or employee's benefit must be adjusted to an actuarially equivalent straight life annuity, such adjustment shall be calculated as provided under subsection (a) above.
In no event shall an officer or employee receive less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit. For purposes of determining that an officer or employee receives no less than the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit, the limitation applicable to the officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit ("Old-Law Limitation") shall be determined, and the officer or employee shall receive the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to the extent it does not exceed such old-law limitation. Before January 1, 2000 (the "final implementation date"), adjustments to the old-law limitation for benefits that commence before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided under Code section 415(b)(2)(E) and the terms of the act as in effect on December 7, 1994. On or after the final implementation date, adjustments to the old law limitation for commencement of benefits before age 62 or after age 65 shall be calculated as provided in subsection (d) above. In no event, however, may an officer's or employee's old-law benefit exceed the officer's or employee's old-law benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
For the purposes of this subsection, the term "RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit" shall mean the officer's or employee's accrued benefit under the terms of the act as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date, for the annuity starting date and optional form and taking into account the limitations of Code section 415 as in effect on December 7, 1994, including the participation requirements under Code section 415(b)(5). In determining the amount of an officer's or employee's RPA Old-Law Benefit, the following shall be disregarded: (1) any ordinance or amendment to the act increasing benefits adopted after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, and (2) any cost-of-living adjustments that become effective under Code section 415(d) after the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
If, at any date after the RPA '94 Freeze Date, the officer's or employee's total benefit under the act, before the application of Code section 415, is less than the officer's or employee's old-law benefit, the RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit will be reduced to a benefit equal to the officer's or employee's total benefit.
The use of a different interest rate and mortality table may not increase an officer's or employee's RPA '94 Old-Law Benefit to an amount greater than such benefit as of the RPA '94 Freeze Date.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(3), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 3, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2010-69(10-O-1895), § 1, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-251. - Treatment of employee contributions for prior service with certain other employers.
(a)
Basic Limitation. If an officer or employee makes one or more contributions under this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, to purchase permissive service credit on or after January 1, 1998, the requirements of section 6-250 shall be treated as satisfied if either:
(1)
The requirements of section 415(b) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code') are satisfied, determined by treating the accrued benefit derived from all contributions under this Act for permissive service credit as an annual benefit for purposes of Code section 415(b), provided, however, that the reduced limit under Code section 415(b)(2)(C) (as described in section 6-250(d)) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-251; or
(2)
The requirements of Code section 415(c) are satisfied, determined by treating all contributions under this Act for permissive service credit as an annual addition for purposes of Code section 415(c), provided, however, that the percentage limitation under Code section 415(c)(1)(B) shall not be exceeded solely by reason of this section 6-251
(b)
Limitation on Nonqualified Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, not more than five years of permissive service credit attributable to nonqualified service shall be taken into account for purposes of this section, and no permissive service credit shall be taken into account before the officer or employee has participated under the provisions of this act for at least five years.
(c)
Definitions.
(1)
Permissive Service Credit. For purposes of this section, the term `permissive service credit' shall mean service credit that (A) is recognized under this Act for purposes of calculating an officer's or employee's benefit, (B) such officer or employee has not received under this Act and (C) such officer or employee may receive only by making a voluntary additional contribution in an amount determined under this Act that does not exceed the amount necessary to fund the benefit attributable to such service credit.
(2)
Nonqualified Service. For purposes of this section, the term 'nonqualified service' means service for which permissive service credit is allowed, other than:
(A)
Service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee of the Government of the United States, any State or political subdivision thereof or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing (other than military service or service for credit that was obtained as a result of a repayment under Code section 415(k)(3));
(B)
Service (including parental, medical, sabbatical and similar leave) as an employee (other than as an employee described in clause (A) above) of an educational organization described in Code section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) that is a public, private or sectarian school providing elementary or secondary education (through grade 12), as determined under the laws of the State of Georgia;
(C)
Service as an employee of an association of employees who are described in clause (A), above; or
(D)
Military service (other than qualified military service under Code section 414(u)) recognized under this Act.
In the case of service described in clauses (A), (B) or (C), such service will be nonqualified service if recognition of such service would cause an officer or employee to receive a retirement benefit for the same service under more than one retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(4), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 4, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-252. - Limitation on monthly earnings.
For the period from January 1, 1996 to December 31, 2001, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, for any year shall not exceed $150,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with section 401(a)(17)(B) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code'). For years beginning on and after January 1, 2002, the annual compensation of each officer and employee taken into account for determining all benefits provided under this Act for any year shall not exceed $200,000.00, as adjusted for the cost of living in accordance with Code section 401(a)(17)(B).
If compensation for any prior year is taken into account in determining the benefits of an officer or employee, the compensation for such prior year shall be subject to the applicable annual compensation limit in effect under Code section 401(a)(17) for that prior year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2002, the limit on compensation taken into account with regard to years before January 1, 2002 shall be increased to $200,000.00, and the monthly benefit of officers and employees who have terminated employment, including officers and employees who have commenced receiving a benefit, shall be recalculated to reflect such increase.
The annual compensation of an officer or employee who commenced participation under this act before January 1, 1996 shall not be limited by the terms of this section.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(5), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 5, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1996.
Sec. 6-253. - Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, to the contrary, contributions, benefits and service credit with respect to qualified military service will be provided in accordance with section 414(u) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(6), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 6, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Dec. 12, 1994.
Sec. 6-254. - Supplemental benefit arrangement.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of this Supplemental Benefit Arrangement is to provide officers and employees participating under the provisions of this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, with the full amount of benefit intended under the Act, without regard to the limitations imposed by section 415 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the `Code').
(b)
Benefits. If the annual retirement benefit of an officer or employee under the Act is reduced as a result of the limitations in Code section 415 (as described in sections 6-250 and 6-251) such officer or employee shall receive an amount from the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement equal to the difference between (i) the amount that would have been payable under the terms of the Act without the application of Code section 415 and (ii) the amount payable under the terms of the Act determined with the application of the limitations in Code section 415.
(c)
Elective Deferrals Not Permitted. Officers and employees shall not be permitted to defer compensation either directly or indirectly under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement at any time.
(d)
Subfund. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the benefits payable under this section shall be paid from the assets of a subfund established under the existing fund, provided that such subfund shall be maintained solely for the purpose of providing benefits under the Supplemental Benefit Arrangement. The assets of the fund (other than the subfund) shall not be used to pay benefits under this section.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(7), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 7, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2004.
Sec. 6-255. - Eligible rollover distributions.
(a)
General rule. The distributee of any eligible rollover distribution made under this Act, 1927 Ga. Laws, page 265, as amended, may elect, in the manner and at the time specified by the board of trustees, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee in a direct rollover.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Distributee. For purposes of this section, a "distributee" shall include any current or former officer or employee who has a right to a benefit under this act. In addition, a 'distributee' shall include the current or former officer's or employee's surviving spouse, as well as the current or former officer's or employee's current or former spouse who is the alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Code section 414(p). Effective January 1, 2010, a 'distributee' shall include a non-spouse beneficiary who is a designated beneficiary within the meaning of Code section 401(a)(9)(E).
(2)
Eligible rollover distribution. For purposes of this section, an 'eligible rollover distribution' is any distribution from the fund established under the act of all or any portion of the balance to the credit of the distributee, except that an eligible rollover distribution does not include: any distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments (not less frequently than annually) made for the life (or life expectancy) of the distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee and the distributee's designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten years or more; any distribution to the extent such distribution is required under section 401(a)(9) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); and any hardship distribution. All or a portion of a distribution shall not fail to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the distribution includes after-tax employee contributions that are not includible in gross income, provided, however, that such amounts may only be paid to a plan that constitutes an eligible retirement plan with respect to a distribution or portion of a distribution constituting after-tax contributions, as defined below.
(3)
Eligible retirement plan. For purposes of this section, an 'eligible retirement plan' is an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or 408(b); a qualified trust described in Code section 401(a); an annuity plan described in Code section 403(a); an annuity contract described in Code section 403(b); and an eligible deferred compensation plan described in 457(b) that is maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state and that agrees to account separately for amounts transferred into such plan from this fund; and, effective January 1, 2008, a Roth IRA described in Code section 408A. With respect to that portion of an eligible rollover distribution that consists of after-tax contributions that are not includible in gross income, an eligible retirement plan shall include only an individual retirement account or annuity described in Code sections 408(a) or (b) or a qualified defined contribution plan described in Code sections 401 (a) or 403(a) that agrees to account separately for the amounts so transferred, including separate accounting for that portion of such distribution that is not includible in gross income. In the case of a distribution to a non-spouse beneficiary, the term eligible retirement plan shall include only an inherited individual retirement account described in Code section 408(a) or an inherited individual retirement annuity described in Code section 408(b).
(c)
Mandatory distributions. Effective January 1, 2006, if with respect to any mandatory distribution in excess of $1,000.00 that is an eligible rollover distribution a distributee does not make an election pursuant to subsection (a) above and does not elect to receive the distribution directly, the amount of the distribution shall be transferred to an individual retirement plan as described in Code section 408(a) or 408(b) of a designated trustee or issuer, and the distributee shall be notified in writing that the distribution may be transferred to such an individual retirement plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(8), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 8, 12-10-04; Ord. No. 2006-13, § 4, 3-23-06; Ord. No. 2010-69(10-O-1895), § 2, 12-15-10)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 2002.
Sec. 6-256. - Exclusive benefit.
At no time prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to officers and employees participating under the provisions of this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, and their beneficiaries shall any part of the corpus or income of the fund established under this Act be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for the exclusive benefit of such officers, employees and beneficiaries, except that a contribution by an employer to the fund established under this Act made under a mistake of fact may be returned to such employer within one year after the payment of the contribution.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(9), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 9, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-257. - Minimum vesting standards.
Upon the termination of the fund established under this Act, 1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, as amended, or upon complete discontinuance of contributions under the Act, the rights of all officers and employees to benefits accrued to the date of such termination or discontinuance, to the extent then funded, shall be nonforfeitable.
(Ord. No. 2004-84, § III(10), 11-16-04; Ord. No. 2004-89, § 10, 12-10-04)
Note— Section 11 of Ord. No. 2004-89 provided for an effective date for this section of Jan. 1, 1997.
Sec. 6-258. - Application of Pension Modification pursuant to City Related Laws Section 6-2.
There has been raised and established funds for the relief and pensioning of members of the Atlanta Police Department who were in active service on or after the date of the passage of this act ("Police Officers' Pension Fund"). The terms of the Police Officers' Pension Fund have been modified by City Related Laws Section 6-2. The terms of the Police Officers' Pension Fund shall be as set forth in City Related Laws Sections 6-221 through 6-280, as amended by Related Laws Section 6-2. The retirement plan and benefits of the following members of the Police Officers' Pension Fund shall not be impacted by Related Laws Section 6-2: 1) members who were active service City Employees on November 1, 2011 who were hired by the City and joined the Police Officers' Pension Fund prior to January 1, 1984, and had continuous City service, or had had a break in service and purchased the interim pension benefits upon rehire; and 2) members who retired before November 1, 2011.
(Ord. No. 2011-27(11-O-0672), § 12, 6-29-11)
Secs. 6-259—6-280. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sec. 6-281. - Board of trustees; constituted, membership.
(a)
"Mayor" shall be deemed to include the chief executive officer of any city coming within the provisions of this act. "Commissioner of finance" shall include any officer by whatever title designated who performs the duties the chief financial officer of any such city. "City council" shall include the legislative body of any such city.
(b)
There is hereby established, to serve without compensation, a board of trustees, whose duty it shall be to manage said fund, which shall be kept as a separate fund. The board of trustees shall consist of the mayor; the commissioner of finance; one (1) member of the city council, said member to be appointed annually by the mayor; and two (2) members of the police department, whether in active service or retired, to be elected for four-year terms, by both active and retired members of said department. Provided that if such city has an administrative assistant to the mayor, the mayor shall have the privilege of designating such administrative assistant to serve on the board of trustees in his stead; and, when so acting, he shall have all the powers herein conferred upon the mayor.
(c)
In January, 1981, an election shall be held, in accordance with (b) above, to fill the vacancies created by the expiration of the terms of the police department members then serving. For the initial election to be held not later than January, 1981, the individual receiving the highest number of votes shall serve for a term expiring in January, 1985, with the individual receiving the second highest number of votes to serve for a term expiring in January, 1983. Not later than January, 1983, an election shall be held to fill such expired term; and thereafter an election to fill expired terms shall be held not later than January of each succeeding two (2) years, with the individual so elected serving for a term of four (4) years as provided in (b) above. Such members shall continue to serve until their successors have been elected.
(d)
The board of trustees shall be authorized to adopt all rules necessary in carrying out the provisions of this act, as amended, pertaining to electing members to the board of trustees and with respect to the filling of vacancies occurring on said board; provided, however, that any such rules shall not be inconsistent with any provisions of this act, as amended; provided further, that the names of candidates in any election shall be sent to those persons eligible to vote not more than 45 days nor less than 30 days before the said election.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 6; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2559, § 2; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2707, § 2; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2891, §§ 1, 2; 1964 Ga. Laws, page 2411, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3205, § 3)
Sec. 6-282. - Right to vote for officers of fund; eligibility for retirement.
All members in good standing, active and inactive, shall be allowed to vote in all elections of officers of the pension fund, and after an officer has served 25 years' actual service he shall be entitled to his pension.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 5)
Sec. 6-283. - Powers and duties of board of trustees; meetings, organization.
The board of trustees shall see to it that the payments of the funds under this act are made to those entitled to receive the same. Said board shall have its first meeting on Wednesday following their election, and shall organize by electing a chairman and a vice-chairman. The vice-chairman shall serve in the event of the absence or disqualification of the chairman, and all vouchers for the disbursement of funds shall be signed by the chairman; and such written order for disbursements shall fully protect the city treasurer in the payment of said funds.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 7; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 2; 1953 Ga. Laws, Nov.-Dec. Sess., page 2707, § 3; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 1, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1992-45, § 1, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1992-58, § 1, 9-21-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 7, 3-24-94)
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1992-45 — —
1992-58 — —
1994-13 — —
  Sec. 6-284. - Rules for meetings of board of trustees.
Said board of trustees shall make its own rules as to the time and place of meeting.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 8)
Sec. 6-285. - Appeals from decisions of board of trustees; procedure.
(a)
A majority of the board of trustees shall control on all disputed questions.
(b)
Whenever an application for disability pension, whether in line of duty or not in line of duty, has been filed, the applicant shall submit therewith a signed certificate from a licensed, practicing physician of Georgia certifying to the applicant's total and permanent disability from his or her regular, assigned or comparable duties with the city and that, where applicable, in the opinion of such physicians, such disability was either caused by or resulted from an accident or injury sustained on the job. Immediately thereupon, the board of trustees shall direct the applicant to submit to an examination by physicians chosen by the board who likewise shall certify the physical or mental ability or disability of the applicant, and, where applicable, whether, in the opinion of such physicians, such disability was either caused by or resulted from an accident or injury sustained on the job. In the event the certificates of the respective physicians shall be in general agreement with respect to such matters, such facts shall be conclusive as to the physical or mental condition of the applicant; and the board shall thereupon approve such pension in the proper amount. In the event the certificate tendered by the applicant and the certification of the physicians chosen by the board shall disagree as to the condition of the applicant and, where applicable, the cause of the disability, then and in that event, the board of trustees shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of determining the true condition of the applicant, and where applicable, the cause of such disability. Such hearing shall be conducted informally by the examination of witnesses for and in opposition to such application who shall be sworn; and the applicant, the city, and the board of trustees may be represented by legal counsel if they so desire. The board of trustees shall be authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and procedures, not inconsistent with general legal principles, governing the manner in which such hearings shall be conducted. The decision of the board after the hearing, shall be final as to the physical or mental condition of the applicant, and where applicable, as to whether the disability is compensable as one incurred in the line of duty, provided, however, such proceeding shall be subject to review by writ of certiorari to the Superior Court in and for the county in which such municipality lies, or if such municipality lies in more than one county, then to the Superior Court of the county in which the greater part of such municipality lies. The secretary-treasurer of the board of trustees shall be authorized to acknowledge service of any such writ and shall, within the time provided by law, certify and cause to be filed with the clerk of said superior court, a record of the proceedings before the board, including a copy of the application for disability pension or other relief involved, the decision of the board and the notice of the board's action as provided to the pension applicant. Where appeals are taken by a pension applicant as provided herein, the board of trustees shall be the respondent and the city shall be the defendant.
(c)
The method of appeal as provided herein shall also serve as the method by which all other disputed pension questions shall be appealed.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 4381, §§ 2, 8; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 4385, § 2)
Sec. 6-286. - Investment of excess funds.
In the event there should accumulate more funds than is needed for immediate use, the board of trustees are empowered to invest such excess funds in United States, State of Georgia, or municipal bonds of any municipality in said state; but not otherwise.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 16; Ord. No. 1985-49, § 2, 8-9-85; Ord. No. 1992-45, § 2, 7-28-92; Ord. No. 1994-13, § 8, 3-24-94)
Editor's note—
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-49 — —
1992-45 — —
1994-13 — —
  Sec. 6-287. - City attorney; function, compensation.
The city attorney shall, without extra compensation render such legal service as the board of trustees created by this act shall require.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 15)
Sec. 6-288. - Actuarial investigations.
The board of trustees of this retirement system shall have the system's actuary make an actuarial investigation every three (3) years or more often as the board, in its discretion, may deem proper. Such actuarial investigation shall include the results of any actuarial investigation into the then current assumptions as to rates of interest, mortality, disability, withdrawal and retirement system under its assumptions and a comparison of results with the previous actuarial investigations and may also include such other studies as may be necessary or desirable for the completeness and accuracy of the actuarial investigation. The actuarial investigation shall also include a valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the retirement system and a determination of the payment necessary to amortize over a stated period any unfunded accrued liability disclosed. As an exhibit to the actuarial investigation, the retirement system board of trustees shall attach a copy of all the provisions of the plan for the retirement system, including the requirements and conditions for qualifying to participate, the nature of benefits under the plan, and the manner in which the local retirement system is funded. The board of trustees of the retirement system shall file with the state auditor a copy of each actuarial investigation.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 4507, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws, page 3629, § 1)
Sec. 6-289. - Approval by city of certain contracts.
Any contract entered into by the board of trustees on or after January 1, 2003 which affects the administrative staffing, management, or operation of the pension fund shall require the consent of the city by adoption of a resolution and approval by the mayor. Any such contract which does not comply with the requirements of this ordinance shall be null and void.
Because this ordinance is not a modification of the Pension Laws, the provisions of City of Atlanta Charter section 3-507 are inapplicable.
(Ord. No. 2003-55, §§ 1, 2, 2-25-03)
Secs. 6-290—6-310. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BENEFITS

Sec. 6-311. - Amount of pension; benefits to dependents.
When such member shall retire as a matter of right, as aforesaid, he shall be paid thereafter, if otherwise entitled hereto under the provisions of this act, 55 percent of the monthly salary or pay he was receiving at the time of his retirement for the remainder of his life, to be paid monthly, provided said sum shall not exceed $100 per month, except as hereinafter provided. In the event of the death of such member who is receiving a pension under the provisions of this section, his widow and minor children, and if no widow, his minor children, shall draw from the time of such pensioner's death, the sum equal to three-fourths (¾) of the sum that the pensioner was drawing or entitled to draw at the time of his death; and such pensions shall continue until such widow dies or remarries, and at her death or remarriage, the said pension shall be continued to be paid to the minor child or children of such deceased pensioner, and shall continue to be so paid until such child, or the youngest of such children, shall attain the age of 16 years. The term "widow" as herein used shall mean the wife of a policeman or pensioner who was married to him at least one (1) year prior to the time the said policeman was making application for pension under this act; and unless such widow whose husband participated in the pension fund hereunder was married to such policeman or pensioner at least one (1) year prior thereto, she shall not be entitled to a pension under this act; nor shall the provisions of this act be extended to include a wife of a policeman or pensioner who is not living with her husband, who is a policeman or pensioner hereunder, at the time of his death; nor shall the provisions of this act be construed to include a wife who has deserted her husband who is such a policeman or pensioner and has not been supported by him. But if such policeman or pensioner is not married and should leave a widowed mother who is dependent upon such policeman or pensioner under this act, then and in that event the widowed mother shall draw the pension which would otherwise have gone to the widow of such policeman or pensioner, or his minor child or children, under the provisions of this act, had he been a married man. Provided, however, that the amount of the pension herein provided for shall be increased in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) per month for each full year's service not in excess of 10 years rendered by the officer or employee after the time when he might have retired as a matter of right.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 3; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 2; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 3; 1952 Ga. Laws, page 2559, § 3)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-312. - Designation of spouse or unmarried child or children as beneficiaries; secondary beneficiary.
(a)
Any officer or employee of the police department (an officer or employee who has passed the civil service examination and has been certified by the civil service or personnel board for employment as a police officer and is elected or employed in such capacity), whether male or female, who has a spouse or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years, as provided for in section 6-331, or under the age of 16 years wherever provided for in other provisions of said act, as amended, shall have the right at any time to designate such spouse or such child or children as beneficiary of such officer's or employee's pension benefits, the amount of such pension benefits to be the same as provided for beneficiaries elsewhere in this act, as amended, and provided that the additional contributions for beneficiaries required in this act, as amended, are made; provided, however, that as to every male officer or employee hereafter elected or employed, participation for the benefit of such officer's or employee's wife or unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years, or under the age of 16 years as the provisions of said act may provide, shall be compulsory. Any and all provisions of this act, as amended, conferring benefits or placing restrictions on the wife or widow, as beneficiary, of male officers or employees, shall apply equally and in the same manner to the husband or widower as beneficiary of female officers or employees. Whenever, in said act, as amended, a beneficiary is designated as a wife or widow, such shall also include the husband or widower of a female officer or employee, if such should be the case. A child or children of a female officer or employee, who has provided for payment of a pension to her beneficiary, shall be entitled to the same benefits and subject to the same restrictions as may now or hereafter apply to the child or children of a male officer or employee, as provided in said act, as amended.
(b)
If a member, whether male or female, designates a beneficiary, and thereafter such beneficiary should cease to be qualified to receive a pension in the event of the officer's or employee's death, then such member may at his or her option designate some other beneficiary who does qualify for pension benefits under this act, as amended, and continue to make contributions for such beneficiary, or cease to make further contributions for beneficiaries, in which event contributions theretofore made for the benefit of such a beneficiary shall not be refunded except insofar as refunds may be allowed by other provisions of this act, as amended. Nothing herein provided shall prevent an officer or employee from designating a primary beneficiary (spouse or children under the age of 18 years, or under the age of 16 years, as the provisions of said act may provide), and a secondary beneficiary (either spouse or children under the age of 18 years, or the age of 16 years, as the provisions of said act may provide, and not named as primary beneficiary).
(c)
At such time as an officer or employee elects participation for the benefit of a beneficiary, such officer or employee shall give written notice of such election to the board, and shall within a period of two (2) years thereafter, in addition to current requirements, pay into the pension fund such additional percentage of such officer's or employee's monthly salary as will equalize the contributions of such electing officer or employee with the contributions of other officers or employees made during the same prior years and months of eligible service for the same benefits, together with three percent (3%) interest thereon for the months during which other officers or employees currently made their contributions for the same benefits.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3172, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-313. - Reduction of certain pensions; application to come under 1933 act.
On and after the passage of this act all pensioners and beneficiaries under all prior existing pension acts for the benefit of policemen and their dependents, and who are now receiving pensions, shall be reduced to the sum of $75 per month, under the provisions of this act; and no pensioner or beneficiary of a pensioner shall draw more than said sum of $75 per month. All pension rolls of the police department of such cities are hereby abolished, and all persons who are now or heretofore entitled to a pension under any prior law shall make application for pension under the provisions of this act, and, if entitled thereto under the provisions of this act, shall be by said board placed on the pension roll under the provisions thereof, but if not entitled to pension under the provisions of this act, shall be denied the right to participate in any of the funds belonging to the pension fund of such departments in such cities; and the same is true of any of the dependents or beneficiaries of prior members of said police departments, that they likewise shall make application under the provisions of this act for pension, and, if entitled to participate and be pensioned from the funds of such department, they shall be placed on the pension roll under the provisions of this act, but not otherwise.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 19; 1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 6)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-314. - Recomputation of benefits for persons who retired prior to March 8, 1945.
Pension payments due all former officers and employees who retired prior to March 8, 1945 and their widows, and who were awarded a pension under the provisions of this act amended prior to March 8, 1945, shall be recomputed under the terms and provisions of the amendment to said act approved March 8, 1945 (1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067 et seq.). It is the intention of this amendment to increase the pension payments of all such persons and to pay minimum pension benefits to them as provided in this act. It is not the purpose of this amendment to reduce any pension benefits which would accrue under subsequent amendments to this act.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2510, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. The provisions of 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, are compiled in sections 6-225, 6-232, 6-240, 6-311, 6-320, 6-321, 6-325, 6-327 and 6-328
Sec. 6-315. - Recomputation of pensions for officers, employees, retiring prior to April 1, 1955.
(a)
Pension payments due all former officers and employees who have retired prior to April 1, 1955, and have been awarded a pension under the provisions of this act, who have reached 70 years of age, or who shall hereafter reach 70 years of age, shall be recomputed upon the following basis: The total pension benefits shall be a sum equal to one-half (½) of the average monthly salary of such former employee during the last three (3) years of his active service to such city, but shall not exceed the sum of $150 per month. The pension payments due to persons who were retired because of disability or for a period of service less than 25 years shall be increased in the same proportion. All such persons shall receive a minimum of four dollars ($4.00) per month for each full year of active service to such city subject to the limitations set out in this act as amended.
(b)
The board of trustees shall permit any officer or employee who is eligible for pension benefits or increased pension benefits under this act as amended and who is not now making the required contributions for such benefits, to become a member of such pension fund and to participate in the increased benefits provided by this act as amended provided such officer or employee shall pay into the pension funds of such city an amount which would be equal to the amounts which he would have been required to pay had he exercised his privileges upon becoming eligible for such benefits. These payments shall be increased by four percent (4%) per annum from the dates such payments would have been due and may be paid over a period of 50 months. The board of trustees shall by rules provide for the exercise of the options herein authorized.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws, page 2890, §§ 1, 2)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-316. - Increase of pensions for retired officers with over 25 years of service.
(a)
Pension payments due to former officers and employees who have retired as a matter of right prior to the effective date of this act, and who have to their credit 25 years or more of active service with said city and have been awarded pensions under the terms of this act, as amended, shall have their pensions recomputed on the following basis:
(1)
Subject to the limitations hereinafter set forth, there shall be paid to such former officers and employees a basic pension of $190 per month.
(2)
In addition to the basic pension in the preceding subparagraph, there shall be paid the sum of six dollars ($6.00) per month for each full year's active service in excess of 25 years. For each full year's active service in excess of 35 years, there shall be paid an additional $10 per month. The record kept in the office of the department of finance, division of pensions, shall be conclusive as to the time served.
(3)
The aggregate of all pension benefits payable to former officers and employees under the provisions of this act shall be limited in that the same shall not exceed 75 percent of the average monthly salary paid to such officer or employee for the last year of employment in active service.
(b)
Former officers and employees who retired prior to the effective date of this act, but who had less than 25 years of active service with said city, but who have been awarded pensions under the terms of this act as heretofore amended, shall be paid that proportion of the basic pension provided in (a)(1) as the length of their service, measured in full years of service, bears to 25 years.
(c)
No recomputation provided for under this act shall be made, if the result thereof would be to reduce pension payments already being received by any former officer or employee.
(d)
Benefits now being paid to dependents of deceased former officers and employees awarded pensions under the terms of this act as heretofore amended, shall be recomputed under the terms and provisions of this act, so as to make the same applicable to such deceased former officers and employees, and the benefits payable to their dependents on account thereof.
(e)
This section shall not be effective to, nor be construed to, confer eligibility for a pension upon any former officer or employee who was not eligible for a pension under the provisions of this act in effect on the date of the retirement, resignation or other withdrawal from service of such former officer or employees.
(f)
Increased benefits payable under the terms of this act shall be paid out of general funds of the City of Atlanta.
(g)
The provisions of this act shall be effective as of January 1, 1973.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2046, § 2; 1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 1; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2882, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-317. - Funds for benefits under sections 6-314 and 6-316.
The increased pension benefits provided by sections 6-314 and 6-316 shall be paid by the board of trustees from funds available to them for the payment of pensions.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 10)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-318. - Benefits payable upon death of nonpensioned policeman with 25 years of service.
When any policeman who has served 25 years, is eligible to retire and has not been placed on a pension, but has remained in active service, dies, his wife and minor child or children shall receive a pension of 75 percent of the amount of the pension that the policeman would have been entitled to had he retired at the time of his death, said pension to be payable monthly until such widow dies or remarries; and in either event, then the pension shall be continued to be paid in the sum aforesaid to the child or children under 16 years of age, and after such child shall attain the age of 16 years, the pension shall cease, and in the event said policeman shall not be survived by a widow or minor child, but shall be survived by a widowed mother who was dependent upon such policeman at the time of his death, then the pension shall be paid to said widowed mother during her natural life or until she remarries, it being the intention of this act, where payment of a pension is provided to a widow of a policeman, that the same shall not be paid unless such widow shall have been married to such policeman for a period of at least 12 months prior to the time of his death. This section shall be retroactive to include any widow of a policeman who may have died since March 26, 1947.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 21; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 4; 1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2055, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-319. - Compensation payable upon death of member with at least five years of service.
(a)
Where any policeman participating in the provisions of this act shall die while in active service and after having had not less than five (5) years of active service prior to his death, his widow, provided she has been designated as beneficiary, was the lawful wife of such policeman at the time of his death and had been married to him for at least one (1) year prior to his death, shall be entitled to receive a pension during her life or until she remarries, representing three-fourths (¾) of the amount that said policeman would have been entitled to receive in the future had such policeman not died but had become as of the date of his death totally and permanently disabled within the provisions of this act from accident, injuries or illness outside of police duties and not from his own indiscretion. Such pension shall be graduated according to the length of service of the deceased policeman before his death. To illustrate, for five (5) years of service the beneficiary would be entitled to three-fourths (¾) of five twenty-fifths (5/25) of the full pension the deceased policeman would have been entitled to had he served 25 years, and for any number of years of service beyond five (5) years and not more than 24 years the beneficiary would be entitled to three-fourths (¾) of whatever proportion of the pension the deceased would have been entitled to for 25 years service as the number of years of active service bears to 25. In determining the number of years of service fractional parts of years shall be counted. To illustrate, if the deceased policeman had served 18 years and nine (9) months, the beneficiary would be entitled to three-fourths (¾) of eighteen and seventy-five one hundredths twenty-fifths (18.75/25) of the pension the deceased would have been entitled to had he served 25 years. In the event of the death or remarriage of such policeman's widow, while receiving such pension and there then be a minor child or children of such policeman under 16 years of age, such pension shall be continued to such child or children until the youngest child shall attain the age of 16 years. If such policeman dies while on active duty without leaving a widow who is entitled to a pension under the provisions hereof but should leave a minor child or children under 16 years of age, and has been paying the percentage of his salary provided under this act for a beneficiary, then a pension graduated as herein provided shall be paid to such minor child or children until the youngest reaches the age of 16 years. The foregoing provisions shall be retroactive to March 26, 1947.
(b)
Any policeman on leave of absence from the police department who accepts any gainful employment other than as a member of the armed forces shall not be considered in active service. If any policeman while on leave of absence becomes gainfully employed other than as a member of the armed forces and dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled before returning to duty in the police department, neither he nor his beneficiary shall be entitled to a pension under the provisions of this act.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 675, § 6; 1961 Ga. Laws, page 3466, §§ 1, 2; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3172, § 3; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2832, § 1)
Sec. 6-320. - Retirement due to total disability in line of duty.
In the event a member of such police department, in good standing, shall be retired under the provisions of this act, because of total disability from injuries received in line of duty, or because of poor health, that shall render him totally disabled as a result of such police service, but not on account of injuries or ill health brought about on account of his own indiscretion or his own act, he may apply for a disability pension under the provisions of this act, which shall not exceed the sum of 55 percent of the monthly salary or pay he was receiving at the time he was found to be disabled, but not to exceed $100 per month, to be paid monthly, subject to the conditions of section 6-321 of this article, and in the event of his death, after being placed on such pension, his widow, if designated as beneficiary, if living, shall receive three-fourths (¾) of the amount which pensioner was drawing at the time of his death per month for her benefit and the benefit of dependent children under 16 years of age of the deceased officer. If the widow should die or remarry the pension going to her shall go to the dependent children under 16 years of age, and be discontinued when they reach the age of 16 years, and if no children, to the mother of the deceased officer if she be a widow and dependent. The disability pension herein provided for shall be continued to the beneficiary after the death of such pensioner at three-fourths (¾) of the rate paid the pensioner wherever a provision has been made for the beneficiary. Where there is no beneficiary or no one has been named, the disability pension shall cease at the death of the pensioner.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 4; 1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 1; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 3)
Sec. 6-321. - Determination of total and permanent disability.
The board of trustees shall have the applicant for a pension on account of permanent and total disability examined by competent physicians and surgeons. In passing upon the question of permanent and total disability, they may receive and consider the reports and recommendations of such examining medical officers and the applicant shall have the right to submit medical and other competent evidence on the question of his disability and right to be retired. If the board of trustees determines that the applicant is not totally and permanently disabled, the act of the board shall be final. If the determination be that the applicant is totally and permanently disabled, he shall be retired subject, however, to the following conditions:
(1)
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his disability and is able to return to his former position;
(2)
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled but is able to return to his former position or employment he occupied at the time of his retirement and such employment and status as to position, pay and service credit at the time of retirement is offered to such pensioner and he takes the former position or fails or refuses to take such offer, then the payment of such disability pension shall cease.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 5)
Sec. 6-322. - Light-duty status.
(a)
In the event that it has been medically determined that an officer or employee of the city is unable to perform his or her regularly assigned duties by reason of physical or mental incapacity or impairment, and where the officer or employee has applied for disability pension, whether in line of duty or not in line of duty, and upon the confirmation and certification of two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is capable of performing less strenuous employment duties with such city, such duties to be designated as "light-duty status," and where such less strenuous employment duties are available and are offered to such officer or employee, the officer or employee may, in the discretion of the appointing authority of such city, be placed into such "light-duty status" within the same bureau and thereby continue to be carried on the payroll of such city with no change in salary status or pension fund membership, pending a further medical determination by two (2) or more licensed and practicing physicians of Georgia that such officer or employee is no longer capable of functioning in such "light-duty status."
(b)
The board of trustees of the pension fund shall be authorized to make all rules necessary in carrying out the provisions set forth in subsection (a).
(c)
This amendment shall only apply to officers and employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date hereof [April 6, 1981].
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3569, § 2)
Sec. 6-323. - Payment of disability benefits to widow, widowed mother, children of member.
The board of trustees shall pay pensions to the members of the police department who shall be entitled thereto under the disability regulations of this act, and to the widow and children of such deceased member of the police department who shall be entitled thereto under the provisions of this act, which said pension, when paid to a widow or those entitled to receive the same under the provisions hereof, shall not exceed the sum of $40 per month; and likewise where the same is paid to a widowed mother who is entitled thereto under the provisions of this act, the same shall not exceed the sum of $40 per month; and in the event the city for whom such policeman is working at the time of his death shall pay to his widow or minor children, or mother, a year's salary after the death of such policeman, then the board of trustees shall not pay the pension under the provisions of this act to the one entitled thereto until after the expiration of the time for which the salary is paid; but that the benefits intended to accrue under the provisions of this act shall be postponed until such time as the salary of such deceased member shall cease to be paid to his dependent.
(1933 Ga. Laws, page 213, § 13)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. To the extent the provisions of the foregoing section conflict with section 6-326, they have been superseded.
Sec. 6-324. - Continuance of pensions to dependents.
The provisions of this amendment [section] providing for the continuance of pensions to widows, children and widowed mothers, shall be applied and effective as to those policemen who prior to the passage of this act have been retired because of physical disability, and upon the death of such retired policeman, they shall be entitled to receive the amount of pensions provided for under section 6-320.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 3)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-325. - Dependents' rights upon member being killed in line of duty prior to eligibility for retirement.
The widow of any member in good standing, whether designated as a beneficiary or not, who is killed while in the discharge of his duty as an officer but before he has served sufficient time to retire as a matter of right, shall be entitled to receive three-fourths (¾) of the pension that he would have been entitled to if he had served sufficient time to have retired as matter of right and if such member at the time of his death leaves no widow, then the minor children or minor child, if any, will be entitled to receive such pension. This provision is made retroactive so that it shall apply to the widow of any member who was killed subsequent to September 1, 1944, as well as those who may be killed in line of duty in the future.
(1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 7)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-326. - Compensation for death from injuries in line of duty.
(a)
Payment of compensation. When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which he would have been entitled shall be continued for one (1) year and paid to his widow or minor children, if no widow.
(b)
Payment of pension. At the expiration of the one-year period referred to in the preceding paragraph the widow of such deceased person shall be entitled to a minimum pension of $150 per month until she remarries or until her death.
(c)
Termination of widow's benefits. The compensation and pension benefits for the widow provided by this act shall terminate upon her remarriage or her death.
(d)
Children's benefits. The compensation and pension benefits provided by this act shall be continued to the minor child or children upon the death or remarriage of the widow until the youngest child shall have become 16 years of age.
(e)
Benefits in lieu of other like benefits. The pension benefits provided by this act shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by this act as amended and shall not be in addition thereto except as to compensation and amount of the pension herein provided.
(f)
Act retroactive. The provisions of this act [section] shall apply retroactively to July 1, 1960.
(1961 Ga. Laws, page 2481, §§ 1—6)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. To the extent the provisions hereof are in conflict with 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 7, codified as section 6-325, this section is superseded; the same analysis applies to section 6-323. See also section 6-331(h) for benefits payable under 1964 act.
Sec. 6-327. - Benefits to members dying or becoming totally disabled outside line of duty.
Any member of said pension fund who shall hereinafter become because of accident, injuries or illness outside of police duties, and not from his own indiscretion, totally and permanently disabled within the meaning of said term as defined by law may apply for disability pension and if such pension is approved by a majority of the board of trustees the same shall be granted upon the following conditions: No person shall be granted any pension whatsoever for such disability until such person has been in the employment of the department for a period of five (5) years. Such person shall be entitled to receive as a pension such percentage of the full pension provided for as his years of service bears to 25 years. That is to say, a person granted a pension at the expiration of 10 years shall be entitled to ten twenty-fifths (10/25) of the amount he would receive had he served a period of 25 years. To illustrate, if he has served 11 years, he would receive eleven twenty-fifths (11/25) of the amount he would have received if he had served 25 years, or, if such person had served 20 years, he would receive twenty twenty-fifths (20/25) of whatever sum he would receive had he served 25 years. In determining the number of years of service fractional parts of years shall be counted. That is to say, a person who has served 18 years and nine (9) months would be pensioned on a basis of eighteen and seventy-five one-hundredth twenty-fifths (18.75/25) of the full pension or for 18 and three-fourths (¾) years of service. The disability pensions herein provided for shall be continued to the beneficiary after the death of such pensioner at three-fourths (¾) of the rate paid the pensioner wherever a provision had been made for the beneficiary. Where no beneficiary has been named, or none exists, the disability pension shall cease at the death of the pensioner.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 356, § 2; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 4; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3172, § 4; 1973 Ga. Laws, page 2832, § 2)
Sec. 6-328. - Refunds to members leaving service or dying before eligibility for retirement.
Any member participating in the provisions of this act who leaves the employ of said city before being eligible for retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount paid into the said fund less one-half of one per centum (0.5%) per year to cover each year that the member had paid into the fund and received protection under this act. To illustrate, if at the end of the first fiscal year, the member has paid into said fund $10 and leaves the services of the city or withdraws from the pension fund, he shall be entitled to a refund of said $10 less one-half of one per centum (0.5%) or if at the end of 24 years, he has paid into said fund $240, he would be entitled to a refund of $240 less 12 per centum. If such member should die before being awarded a pension, and should leave no beneficiary entitled to a pension as such under this act, the refund shall be paid to his estate.
(1935 Ga. Laws, page 445, § 4; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 1067, § 10; 1955 Ga. Laws, Jan.-Feb. Sess., page 2055, § 2)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals. To the extent the provisions of this section conflict with corresponding provisions derived from 1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, compiled as section 6-329, this section has been superseded.
Sec. 6-329. - Refunds when leaving employment prior to retirement.
Any employee participating in the provisions of this act, as amended who leaves the employ of such city prior to retirement shall have refunded to him an amount equal to the amount which he has paid into said fund.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 3244, § 3)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-330. - Refunds for noncredited deductions upon compulsory retirement or death.
When any member shall be compelled to retire because of age or disability, or shall die, fractional parts of years shall be counted in determining the number of years of service with respect to the member being compelled to retire because of age before completing the required number of years of service, and with respect to partial pensions and pensions for total permanent disability arising outside of police duties and not in line of duty, or pensions upon death, and thereafter such member or his beneficiary shall be entitled to receive a refund of all amounts deducted from his salary for pension purposes for any months for which he or his beneficiary cannot receive full credit on pension benefits.
(1958 Ga. Laws, page 2879, § 1; 1963 Ga. Laws, page 2564, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3172, § 2)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-331. - Benefits in lieu of like existing benefits.
(a)
The pension benefits provided by this section and the several subsections shall be in lieu of like pension benefits provided by existing provisions of this act.
(b)
As used in this act, the language "officer and employee" shall be defined as any officer and employee who has passed the civil service examination and has been certified by the civil service or personnel board for employment as a police officer and is elected or employed in such capacity.
(c)
Any officer and employee coming under the terms of this act who is in the employment of the city prior to the effective date of this amendment may elect to come under the provisions of this amendment by making written application to the pension board. The applicant must agree in writing to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, in lieu of other pension benefits and obligations under this act, as amended.
All such officers and employees in the employment of the city on the effective date of this act who do not in writing agree to accept the benefits and obligations of this amendment, shall have their rights and obligations determined under the law as it existed prior to this amendment.
All regular officers and employees of the city eligible for participation in this act, as amended, who shall be elected or employed after the effective date of this act, shall be required to come under the provisions of this act, as now amended, and shall have all rights and duties provided in the amended act. Temporary employees shall not be required to participate in this act, as amended.
This amendment and the election to accept these benefits shall be predicated upon an acknowledgment that the General Assembly in adopting this amendment reserved the right to further amend said act and to reduce the benefits provided hereunder not to exceed the primary insurance amount such officer and employee will be eligible to receive in the event the officer and employee of such city should ever qualify and accept the benefits under the Federal O.A.S.I. program by reason of his employment by such city. Provided further, that the benefits of this act, as amended, shall in no event be reduced more than the primary insurance amount received from the Federal O.A.S.I. program as a consequence of participation in said Federal O.A.S.I. program. Provided further, that the benefits of this act, as amended, shall in no event be reduced as a consequence of participation in said Federal O.A.S.I. program below the benefits as same existed prior to the enactment of this amendment.
(d)
All officers and employees who shall elect to come under the terms of this amendment must attain the age of 55 years and shall have served 25 years before being eligible to retire and receive the benefits as provided by this amendment. Providing, however, that such officer or employee who has served 25 years and who has attained the age of 50 years may elect to retire on a reduced pension, said reduction to be one-twelfth of three percent (3%) per month for each month such officer or employee lacks in being 55 years of age; provided further, that the provisions of this section as to age limit shall not apply to any person claiming a pension by reason of total and permanent disability.
(e)
When such officer and employee shall retire as a matter of right, he shall be paid thereafter a monthly pension equal to two percent (2%) of his monthly (base and service) earnings, multiplied by his years, and one and one-half percent (1½%) of his monthly (base and service) earnings multiplied by the number of full years of creditable service in excess of 25 years of creditable service. Monthly earnings shall be the average of the highest three (3) years (base and service) salary during the term of employment.
(f)
In no event shall the total pension benefits payable under this amendment, plus any primary insurance amount under the Federal O.A.S.I. program that may inure to any officer or employee coming under the provisions of this amendment, by reason of his employment by such city, exceed 75 percent of the average monthly (base and service) salary used in computing the pension benefits under the terms of this amendment. Provided, however, that whenever monthly earnings as defined in this amendment, multiplied by years of creditable service at the time of retirement or death shall entitle any officer and employee coming under the provisions of this amendment to a pension in excess of the maximum pension allowable hereunder, said officer and employee, shall be refunded all contributions made by him on monthly earnings in excess of monthly earnings necessary to arrive at the maximum pension allowable. No department head who elects to come under the provisions of this act shall be entitled to receive any emeritus salary as provided by the governing authorities of any city coming within the provisions of this act.
(g) (1) Any officer or employee who is a member of the pension fund shall be considered totally and permanently disabled by the board of trustees while the officer or employee is in a continuous state of incapacity due to illness or injury:
a.
During the first 12 months which the officer or employee is prevented from performing his/her regular, assigned or comparable duties; and
b.
Thereafter, if the condition continues to prevent the officer or employee from engaging in any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
(2)
A member who is considered by the board of trustees to be totally and permanently disabled in accordance with subsection (g)(1)a. and b. on or after January 1, 1986, shall receive a monthly disability benefit which shall commence on the day following the officer's or employee's last date on the payroll and continue until the earlier of:
a.
Cessation of total and permanent disability;
b.
Attainment of age 55.
(3)
Such monthly disability benefit shall be equal to 50 percent of the officer's or employee's average monthly earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years of service prior to the date of approval by the board of trustees or the officer's or employee's accrued normal retirement benefit, whichever is greater.
(4)
Upon the cessation of disability benefits pursuant to subsection (g)(2)a. or b., and the officer's or employee's failure to return to city employment, the officer or employee would be entitled to a pension benefit as calculated in accordance with subsection c. or d. of 1964 Ga. Laws, page 3001, as applicable. Provided further, that the calculation of any such subsequent benefit shall include credit for all years and fractions thereof during the time disability pension benefits have been paid, but shall not include credit for any disability pension payments made. Provided further, that for the purposes of calculating any cost-of-living adjustments, the subsequent benefits shall be considered as a new pension with a new effective date.
(5)
Disability pension benefits shall be offset by worker's compensation payments so that the combination of payments shall not exceed 75 percent of the officer's or employee's salary at the time disability pension benefits are to commence or 60 percent of an officer's or employee's salary at the time of disability or death in the case of a beneficiary. However, this subsection shall not prevent the restoration of disability pension benefits payable upon the reduction or termination of any such compensation benefits payable by the city under applicable worker's compensation laws.
(6)
a.
Pensions for beneficiaries designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be one-half of the amount the pensioner was receiving, at the time of his death, as a result of retirement as a matter of right or because of total and permanent disability; or one-half of the amount such officer or employee would have been entitled to receive had such person retired prior to death.
b.
The pension benefits for a primary beneficiary shall be continued to the secondary beneficiary, upon the death, or ineligibility for benefits, of the primary beneficiary. Provided, however, if such primary beneficiary was not receiving the maximum beneficiary payment provided for in this act because of any provision of this act reducing such amount, such maximum beneficiary amount shall be paid to the secondary beneficiary, notwithstanding any lesser amount previously paid to the primary beneficiary. Provided, further, that if said beneficiary, primary or secondary, receiving beneficiary benefits as widow or widower of the pensioner is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner, there shall be deducted from such pension one-twelfth of two percent (2%) per month for each month such beneficiary is more than five (5) years younger than the pensioner.
c.
No spouse, designated as a beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive any of said service pension benefits unless such spouse shall have been legally married to such officer or employee of such city for a period of one (1) year prior to the death of such pensioner; provided the officer or employee has made payment for such benefits prior to retirement.
d.
In determining all pensions of officers or employees referred to above, fractional parts of years of service shall be counted and accumulated annual sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be counted as provided for in paragraph e.
e.
In determining creditable service, accumulated, unused sick leave days credited to such officer or employee shall be added as work days to the creditable service otherwise provided by this act, as amended. In determining average monthly earnings, such accumulated unused sick leave days shall be credited at the highest daily rate of regular salary or earnings during the highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings and all accumulated unused sick leave days shall be substituted for a like number of days at the lowest rate of regular salary or earnings during such highest three (3) consecutive years' salary or earnings during the term of employment.
f.
Any person entitled to disability benefits under the provisions of this act, as amended, may receive benefits after he/she has been in the active employment of the city for at least a period of five (5) years. Provided, however, said requirement shall not apply to an officer or employee disabled as a direct result of a traumatic event or events occurring during and as a result of the performance of an officer's or employee's regular or assigned duties and not the result of such officer's or employee's willful negligence.
(7)
Disability pensions; annual review. The retirement of a pension applicant by reason of permanent and total disability shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.
The board of trustees shall have the right to at least once a year require the pensioner to submit to a medical examination for the purpose of determining whether or not the pensioner has sufficiently recovered from his disability and is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience.
b.
If the board, after such examination, determines that the pensioner is not actually totally and permanently disabled but is able to return to any occupation for which he/she is or becomes reasonably qualified by education, training or experience then the payment of such disability pension shall cease. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 11, 12-19-85)
(h)
When any person covered by the provisions of this act shall die as a result of injuries incurred in the line of duty, the compensation to which he would have been entitled shall be continued for one (1) year and paid to his widow or minor children (natural or legally adopted), if no widow. Any compensation received by the member due to said injury shall be deducted from the one-year's compensation herein provided for. At the expiration of the one-year period referred to above, the pension benefits for widow shall be computed by the same formula as set forth in subsection (g) above. The pension benefits for widow provided by this amendment shall be continued to the minor child or children (natural or legally adopted) upon the death of the widow until the youngest child shall have become 18 years of age. (Ord. No. 1985-94, § 12, 12-19-85)
(i)
There shall be deducted from the total salary of any officer or employee electing to come under this amendment the sum of five percent (5%) of his total salary, in the event he does not provide for payment of a pension to this beneficiary, as authorized by this act, as amended, or the sum of six percent (6%) of his total salary, in the event he does provide for the continuance of the pension to his beneficiary. Like payments shall be made from the salaries of future employees of the police department required to come under this amendment.
(j)
In addition to the payments required to be made in subsection (i) above, any officer or employee who may become a participant under this amendment shall be entitled to all benefits and receive credit for all the years of his creditable service, provided he shall pay into the fund the sum of five percent (5%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does not provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary, and the sum of six percent (6%) of his total salary from the time his salary exceeded $300 per month, if he does provide for the payment of a pension to a beneficiary. Payments previously made to the pension fund not exceeding the amount due the fund shall be deducted from the total amount due in arriving at the total sum of five percent (5%) or six percent (6%).
Said total amount due may be paid at the time the officer and employee elects to come under the terms of this amendment or in 60 monthly installments from the date of his participation under this amendment, at the option of the participant to the plan. Provided, however, that the board of trustees of the fund, as created under this act, as amended, may at their discretion allow additional time for such payments to be made.
Any officer and employee who does not elect to participate under this amendment within six (6) months of the effective date of this amendment, but who later elects to participate, shall be required to pay interest at the rate of four percent (4%) per annum from the effective date of this amendment to the date he elects to participate. In the event the officer and employee should retire or die before said payments into the fund are completed, the secretary of the retirement fund is authorized to deduct the monthly payments from retirement or beneficiary benefits until the obligation is discharged.
(k)
This section and the several subsections shall be effective the first day of the month following the passage and approval of this act, and the payments required by subsection (i) above, as to those then employed and electing to come under this amendment, shall begin with that date. As to those subsequently coming into the service of the police department or subsequently electing to participate under the terms of this amendment, said payments shall begin with the employment or date of such election.
(l)
In addition to the fund derived from deductions from salaries and wages, as required by subsection (i) of this amendment, it shall be the duty of the governing authorities of such cities to appropriate and pay into the pension fund an amount which shall be equal to the amount paid into said fund by said officers and employees of the police department for prior creditable service, as required by subsection (j). Provided, however, such governing authorities of such cities may delay the matching of additional contributions caused by the enactment of this amendment to the January 1st next following the effective date of this amendment and provided, further, that said governing authorities of such cities may match the payments for prior creditable service, as provided for in subsection (j) in annual installments over a period not to exceed 20 years from the January 1st next following the effective date of this amendment. Should said pension fund at any time be insufficient to meet and pay the pensions due to such officers and employees of the police department, such governing authorities shall appropriate from current funds amounts sufficient to make up the deficiency and deposit same into such pension fund.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 3001, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2112, §§ 1—3; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3172, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 3279, § 1)
Editor's note—
Except for subsection (l) (derived from 1964 Ga. Laws, page 3001, § 1), the provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
The ordinances listed in the left-hand column below are found in the state session laws at the location listed opposite them in the right-hand column below:
EXPAND
Georgia Laws
Ord. No. Year Page
1985-94 — —
  Sec. 6-332. - Deferred pension benefits.
(a)
When any person coming within the provisions of this act, as amended, shall have completed 20 years of active service with such city and not yet have reached the age of 65 years, then such person shall have the right to terminate his employment with such city upon completion of said 20 years, or at any time thereafter; elect not to withdraw or have paid to such person the amount which such person would have paid into the pension fund prior to terminating such employment; and upon subsequently attaining 65 years of age commence to receive at said time the benefits to which such person would have been entitled had such person otherwise retired as a matter of right in accordance with the applicable provisions of this act, as amended.
(b)
Should such person have provided for the payment of a pension to the beneficiary of such person, as authorized by said act, as amended, by making the required payments or contributions to the pension fund, then after terminating the employment with such city and upon the death of such person, either before or after attaining 65 years of age, such person's beneficiary designated under the terms of this act, as amended, shall be entitled to all of the benefits provided for such beneficiary as set forth in the relevant and applicable sections of this act, as amended.
(c)
Should such person, after having left the employment with such city after 20 years of active service, become reemployed by such city, then such person at such time shall have the right to continue under the provisions of the amendments to said act which such person was under prior to the termination of such employment, or may elect to come under any amendments to said act enacted subsequently to the termination of such person's employment and as might exist and be in effect at the time of said reemployment, upon there being made such payments or contributions to the pension fund, through deductions from salary or otherwise, as might be required by said act, as amended.
(1971 Ga. Laws, page 2234, § 1)
Editor's note—
The provisions compiled in the above section were repealed by 1978 Ga. Laws, page 4527 but have been retained at the request of the city due to their applicability to certain individuals.
Sec. 6-333. - [Deduction in benefits for repayment of advanced sick leave.]
(a)
In the event that an officer or employee who has been granted advanced sick leave should retire or die prior to having repaid any and all amounts due such city for the advanced sick leave, an appropriate amount, as determined by the board of trustees, may be deducted from the monthly retirement or beneficiary benefits, or in lieu thereof, such lump sum amounts as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate until the obligation is discharged.
(b)
The provisions of this Act shall apply only to officers or employees who become members of the pension fund on or after the effective date of this Act.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 3887, §§ 2, 4)
Secs. 6-334—6-365. - Reserved.
