Chapter 24 - COUNTY PROPERTY
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Use of county parking facilities and parking spaces.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a county-owned parking area or upon other county-owned property except in areas designated by appropriate signs as vehicle parking areas or in marked parking spaces. It shall be unlawful to leave a vehicle standing or parked in a county-owned parking area or other county-owned property during hours when the area is closed. For purposes of this section the terms, "county-owned parking area" and "county-owned property" shall not mean county roads.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park in a county-owned parking area or upon other county-owned property if the owner of the vehicle is not utilizing the county services provided at that location unless otherwise authorized by a county department head.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to park any private vehicle in any county-owned parking area or upon other county-owned property as set forth in subsection (a) for a period of more than 12 hours in any one day or to park a commercial or freight-carrying vehicle or trailer in such places except by written permission of the county manager.
(Ord. No. 22-16 , § 1, 12-13-2022)
Secs. 24-2—24-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SALE OR CONVEYANCE OF SMALL OR NARROW STRIPS OF COUNTY-OWNED LAND

Sec. 24-31. - Sale of county-owned small or narrow strips of real property incapable of independent use.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-9-3(h), the county may determine the terms and conditions required to "sell and convey parcels of small or narrow strips of land, so shaped or so small as to be incapable of being used independently as zoned or under applicable subdivision or other development ordinances or land use plans, or as streets, whether owned in fee or used by easement, to abutting property owners where such sales and conveyances facilitate the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property."
(b)
Such real property as identified herein may be sold or conveyed according to the following terms and conditions:
(1)
The county manager, or his/her designee, shall make a written recommendation that the real property be sold or conveyed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-9-3(h);
(2)
The board of commissioners shall review the county manager's written recommendation to determine whether to authorize the sale of the real property to the abutting property owners; and
(3)
After the board of commissioners authorizes the sale, the county shall send a notice of proposed sale to each abutting property owner, sent via certified mail to the abutting property owner's last known address, that includes a statement that the abutting property owner will have 30 days from the date of the notice to submit a sealed bid to the county for the purchase of the real property as well as the name and contact information of the county representative to whom such bid must be submitted.
(c)
Once the time to submit sealed bids has passed, the county shall review all bids to determine whether to sell or convey the real property. The county shall have the right to reject any and all bids and may also negotiate with the highest bidder for an agreed price in excess of the highest bid which agreed price may include the cost of any survey required to identify the parcel.
(d)
Due to the unique shape and size of county-owned real property falling within the description of lands identified by O.C.G.A. § 36-9-3(h), the county may, but is not required to utilize an independent appraisal when reviewing responsive bids.
(e)
Nothing contained in this section shall obligate the county to sell any real property identified herein.
(Ord. No. 20-04, § 2 (Exh. A), 4-21-2020; Ord. No. 22-09 , § 9, 7-14-2022)
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 36-9-3.
