ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this Part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 201. - Salary basis.
The clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, the ordinary and the coroner of Paulding County are hereby placed on a salary system in lieu of a fee system.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 1).
Sec. 202. - Clerk of superior court compensation.
The clerk of the superior court shall receive an annual salary of $12,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 2; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 2733, § 1)
Sec. 203. - Sheriff compensation.
The sheriff shall receive an annual salary of $13,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 3; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 2733, § 2).
Sec. 204. - Ordinary compensation.
The ordinary shall receive an annual salary of $12,000.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 4; 1972 Ga. Laws, page 2733, § 3).
Sec. 205. - Coroner compensation.
The coroner shall receive an annual salary of $3,600.00 payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 5; 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5221, § 1).
Sec. 206. - Fees to be paid to county.
After the effective date of this Act, said officers shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in their respective offices, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, each of said officers shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 6).
Sec. 207. - Fees due.
All fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys or other emoluments or perquisites of whatever kind and payments in retirement systems which had accrued to the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff and the ordinary of Paulding County as of January 1, 1965, and to which said officers are entitled and which remain uncollected as of January 1, 1965, shall, when collected, be paid to said officers.
(1965 Ga. Laws, page 2241, § 1(6A))
Sec. 208. - Clerk of superior court staff.
The clerk of the superior court is hereby authorized to appoint one deputy clerk, who shall be compensated in the amount of $3,000.00 per annum, and one clerk-typist, who shall be compensated in the amount of $1,500.00 per annum. Such compensation shall be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 7).
Sec. 209. - Sheriff staff.
The sheriff is hereby authorized to appoint three deputy sheriffs, one jailer, and one cook.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 8; 1968 Ga. Laws, page 2385, § 1).
Sec. 210. - Ordinary staff.
The ordinary is hereby authorized to appoint a clerk, who shall be compensated in the amount of $2,400.00 per annum, to be paid in equal monthly installments from the funds of such county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 9).
Sec. 211. - Supplies, etc.
The necessary operating expenses of each of said offices shall be paid from the funds of the county. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities, uniforms, vehicles and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of each office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from the funds of the county.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 10).
Sec. 212. - Bonds.
The official bonds of each of said officers, and the respective deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel, as may be required by law, shall be procured by each elected officer, and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of county funds.
(1964 Ga. Laws, Extra Session, page 2246, § 11).
Sec. 213. - Office of treasurer abolished.
(a)
The office of county treasurer of Paulding County is hereby abolished.
(b)
On the effective date of this Act, the outgoing treasurer shall turn over all books, records, accounts and funds in his hands to the commissioner of roads and revenues of Paulding County and shall make a full and complete accounting to said commissioner.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 2615, §§ 1, 2)
DIVISION 2. - CIVIL SERVICE

Sec. 231. - Constitutional amendment.
Article IX, Section V, Paragraph 1 of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "The General Assembly is hereby authorized to provide by law for the creation of a Paulding County Civil Service System for all those persons, other than elected officials, whose salaries or wages are paid in whole or in part from the funds of Paulding County."
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 2431, § 1)
Editor's note— This constitutional amendment was specifically continued in force and effect as a part of the constitution of the state by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3578.
Sec. 232. - [Title.]
This Act may be cited as the "Paulding County Civil Service System Act."
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 1)
Sec. 233. - [Civil service system established.]
(a)
From and after the passage and approval of this Act, there is hereby authorized to be created and established by the governing authority of Paulding County a civil service system of personnel administration, to be known as the Paulding County Civil Service System. The said governing authority shall be authorized to create such civil service system by appropriate resolution, which resolution shall specify the department, personnel, and offices of the county government governed by such system and the effective date of said system.
(b)
It is specifically provided that elected officials of Paulding County appointed members of boards, commissions, and authorities of Paulding County, the supervisors or heads or other chief executive officers, by whatever name designated, of all departments of Paulding County, whether presently existing or hereafter created, the county attorney, and the secretary of the Paulding County Commission shall not be under or subject to the Paulding County Civil Service System. Except as limited by the foregoing sentence and by Section 5 of this Act relating to employees of elected county officers, the Paulding County Commission, pursuant to the resolution adopted under subsection (a) of this section, or pursuant to any other resolution or ordinance that may be adopted from time to time by said commission, shall have the authority to place all employees, or any category of employees, of Paulding County under said civil service system.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 2; 1993 Ga. Laws, page 5186, § 1)
Sec. 234. - [Civil service board established; membership.]
(a)
There is hereby authorized to be established by said governing authority of said county a civil service board composed of three (3) citizens who are freeholders of Paulding County of known sympathy to the civil service system, who are not employees of Paulding County, who have paid their taxes to date, and who have been residents of Paulding County for two (2) years or more.
(b)
Members of the civil service board shall be selected and appointed for a term of four (4) years each and shall serve until their successors are named and qualified. Said members of the civil service board shall be selected and appointed in the following manner: One member shall be selected by the elected county officials, namely, clerk of superior court, tax commissioner, sheriff, and judge of the probate court who shall have one vote each and the board of county commissioners who shall have only one vote which may be cast by a majority of said board, and the person so selected by said county officials shall be appointed to the civil service board by the county governing authority. The second member shall be selected by the employees of Paulding County (other than the aforesaid elected officials), who are eligible to come under the provisions of this Act and who are in the employ of Paulding County on a full-time basis when the constitutional amendment authorizing the creation of a civil service system in Paulding County is ratified by a majority expression to the county governing authority of their selection by appropriate petition or ballot and the person so selected shall be appointed by the county governing authority after being advised of the selection. The third member of the civil service board shall be selected by the two (2) members selected by the elected officials and the full-time county employees, and the person selected shall be appointed to the board by the county governing authority. No member of the civil service board shall have held political office or have been a salaried employee of Paulding County during the three (3) months preceding his appointment. No member of the civil service board may be removed from office prior to the expiration of his term except for cause after having been granted a notice and afforded a hearing before the governing authority of said county. Prior to said hearing said member shall be served by registered or certified mail addressed to his residence as shown in the files of said governing authority at least ten (10) days before the date set for said hearing with written specifications of the charges against him. The three (3) members shall designate one of their number as chairman and vice-chairman. Vacancies on the civil service board shall be filled in the same manner except the member representing the county employees shall be selected by a majority expression of only the employees electing to be covered and who are covered by the civil service system and who are in the full-time employ of Paulding County when and if such vacancies occur.
(c)
Members of the civil service board shall receive as compensation for their services an amount to be determined by the governing authority of the county.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 3)
Sec. 235. - [Meetings.]
It shall be the duty, function, and responsibility of the civil service board to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration and the selection of qualified personnel. All meetings of the civil service board shall be held in offices provided therefor by the governing authority of Paulding County or in a courtroom of the Superior court of Paulding County. The governing authority of said county is authorized to provided necessary clerical assistance to the board on a part-time basis to assist the board in conducting hearings and appeals as provided for in this Act. Said board shall hold regular meetings at least once a month and may hold additional meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 4; 1993 Ga. Laws, page 5186, § 2)
Sec. 236. - [Petition to be placed under civil service.]
When more than 50 percent of the employees of any elected county officer of Paulding County petition the civil service board to be placed under the civil service system, the board shall take action to place such employees under said system, and, thereafter, said employees shall be under and subject to said civil service system.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 5; 1981 Ga. Laws, page 4282, § 2)
Sec. 237. - [Duties and functions.]
The duties and functions of the civil service board shall be as follows:
(a)
To hold public hearings regarding proposed rules and regulations and standards of the civil service system and thereafter recommend to the governing authority of Paulding County the adoption of rules and regulations and standards effectuating the civil service system established under this Act. Such rules and regulations shall include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of job classification and compensation plans, the conduct of examinations for appointment under the civil service system, the certification of eligible persons, appointments, promotions, transfers, demotions, separations, tenure, service ratings, reinstatements, appeals, and such additional regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of impartial selection of efficient personnel and improvement of public administration. Such rules and regulations shall prohibit political activity by any employee covered by the civil service system or the civil service board. The rules and regulations may provide for the establishment of a register of persons eligible for appointment under the civil service system, provided that no elected county officer shall be required to choose personnel solely from said register, but the personnel employed by such county officer shall be processed in accordance with such rules and regulations as may be adopted. Said rules and regulations when proposed by the civil service board as aforesaid and approved and adopted by the governing authority of Paulding County shall have the force of law and be binding upon all departments and offices of the county enumerated in the resolution creating the civil service board.
(b)
To conduct hearings and render decisions on charges preferred against persons employed in the several departments and offices included in said civil service system and to hear appeals from any employee who claims to have been improperly dismissed.
(c)
The civil service board shall keep and maintain an accurate record of minutes and shall be furnished clerical assistance by the governing authority to keep and maintain its minutes and records.
(d)
Said board shall be authorized to make recommendations as to amendments, additions to, and changes in said rules and regulations from time to time and when said amendments, changes, or additions are adopted by the governing authority of Paulding County, said amendments shall have the force of law and be binding on all parties affected by said civil service system.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 6)
Sec. 238. - [Amendments, additions and changes to civil service rules and regulations.]
The governing authority of Paulding County shall be authorized to make recommendations as to amendments, additions to, and changes in the rules and regulations of the civil service board from time to time and unless said amendments, changes or additions are rejected by two-thirds of the membership of the civil service board, said amendments shall have the force of law and be binding on all parties affected by said civil service system.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 5186, § 3)
Sec. 239. - [Termination or suspension or employees.]
No employee of any department or office of the county which has been brought under the civil service system pursuant to this Act may be terminated from employment in said department or office except for good cause and in accordance with the rules and regulation of the civil service board, as approved by the governing authority as aforesaid. No employee covered by the civil service system shall have any right of appeal to the civil service board unless such employee is terminated or suspended from employment for any period of time; and the board shall only hear appeals involving such terminations or suspension. Any employee who is terminated or suspended shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the terms of the rules and regulation prescribed for appeals by the civil service board. Such appeal shall be heard at the next regular or special meeting of the civil service board after it is filed and must be heard and determined by the board within 45 days of the date said appeal is filed with the board; provided, however, that a terminated employee must file an appeal with the board in writing within ten days from the date of the employee's termination and provided that this provision shall not apply to persons terminated from any department due to curtailment in funds, reduction in staff, or abolition of the job held by such employee. The decision of the board shall be binding upon the governing authority of said county as to whether such termination was for proper cause.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 7; 1993 Ga. Laws, page 5186, § 4)
Sec. 240. - [Cost for salaries, expenses, and supplies.]
All costs for salaries, expenses, and supplies for the establishment and operation of the civil service system and civil service board shall be borne by the county and paid out of county funds as a cost of administration.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3119, § 8)
