Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 12-1—12-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 12-19. - Creation; membership.
An emergency management agency for the county is created in and for the county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27(a)(1).
Sec. 12-20. - Director appointed; powers and duties.
Upon appointment, the director of emergency management for the county shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the emergency management agency for the county, subject to the direction and control of the board of commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The director of emergency management for the county shall:
(1)
Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the county and shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours;
(2)
Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters or emergencies;
(3)
Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers;
(4)
Coordinate emergency response of public and private agencies and organizations;
(5)
Attend training and meetings convened by the county or the state emergency management director;
(6)
Develop or cause to be developed, in collaboration with other public and private agencies within the state, mutual aid arrangements, consistent with state plans and programs, for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted;
(7)
Enter into appropriate mutual aid agreements, subject to approval of the governor, with emergency management agencies or organizations in other states for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in case of emergency or disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted.
(Code 2008, §§ 6-105, 7-305; Res. No. 2012-13, § II, 10-18-2012)
Secs. 12-21—12-43. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ALARM AND SECURITY SYSTEMS

Sec. 12-44. - False alarms restricted.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of an alarm or security system to have more than four false alarms during a consecutive 12-month period for each address equipped with alarm or security equipment, including false alarms transmitted through a central or relay office via telephone to the county sheriff's office. It shall be the duty of the owner of the alarm or security system to comply with this section.
(Code 2008, § 7-101)
Sec. 12-45. - Issuance of citations.
Citations will be issued by the county sheriff's office to the owner of an alarm or security system for the fifth and subsequent false alarm during a consecutive 12-month period.
(Code 2008, § 7-102)
Sec. 12-46. - Maintenance of log.
A log will be kept at the sheriff's office of false alarms which will list the date of the alarm call, the owner's or occupant's name and the address and the officer responding to the call. Entries on such log reflecting five or more false alarms at a particular address during a 12-month period shall constitute prima facie evidence of a violation of this article.
(Code 2008, § 7-103)
Sec. 12-47. - Defense to false alarms.
If the alarm was activated due to an act of God or weather event, such alarm shall not be considered a false alarm for purposes of this article.
(Code 2008, § 7-104)
Secs. 12-48—12-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - AMBULANCE SERVICE

Sec. 12-68. - Non-transport ambulance fee.
There is imposed a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk a non-transport fee for any ambulance call where the patient or patient's family called for an ambulance, and, for whatever reason, the patient was not transported. No fee will be assessed when called to wrecks with no injuries, or to assist the sheriff's office or fire department.
