Chapter 9.25 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 9.25-1—9.25-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION

Sec. 9.25-31. - Purpose.
In support and furtherance of its findings and determination that the historical, archaeological, and architectural heritage of the City of Cartersville is among its most valued and important assets and that the preservation of this heritage is essential to the promotion of the health, prosperity and general welfare of the people; in order to stimulate revitalization of the business districts and historic neighborhoods and to protect and enhance local historical attractions to tourists and thereby promote and stimulate business; to encourage the development of financial and other incentives at all levels of government and the private sector that will serve to promote the preservation of historic resources; in order to enhance the opportunities for federal or state tax benefits under relevant provisions of federal or state law; in order to provide for the designation, protection, preservation and rehabilitation of historic properties and historic districts and to participate in federal or state programs to do the same; in order to promote the reuse and recycling of existing building stock in Cartersville and thereby conserve increasingly scarce landfill space and valuable natural resources;
The City Council of the City of Cartersville hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a uniform procedure for use in providing for the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects, landscape features and works of art having a special historical, cultural, architectural, or archaeological significance, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § I, 5-17-01)
Sec. 9.25-32. - Historic preservation commission.
(a)
Creation of the historic preservation commission. There is hereby created a commission whose title shall be the "Cartersville Historic Preservation Commission," hereinafter "commission."
(b)
Historic preservation commission position within the City of Cartersville. The commission shall be considered a part of the planning and development functions of the City of Cartersville and the staff function shall be performed by the department of planning and development.
(c)
Historic preservation commission members: Number, appointment, terms, and compensation. The commission shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the City Council of the City of Cartersville. A majority of the members of any such commission shall have demonstrated special interest, experience, or education in history or architecture; all the members shall reside within the historic preservation jurisdiction of the city.
Members shall serve three-year terms. In order to achieve staggered terms, initial appointments shall be: two (2) members for two (2) years; and three (3) members for three (3) years. Members shall not receive a salary, although they may be reimbursed for expenses by the city council. The city council will have the authority to remove any member of the historic preservation commission appointed by it for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing.
(d)
Statement of the commission's powers.
The commission shall be authorized to:
(1)
Prepare and maintain an inventory of all property within the City of Cartersville having the potential for designation as a historic property;
(2)
Recommend to the city council specific places, districts, sites, buildings, structures, objects, or works of art to be designated by ordinance as historic properties or historic districts;
(3)
Review applications for certificates of preservation and approve, approve with conditions, or deny same in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
(4)
Recommend to the city council that the designation of any place, district, site, building, structure, object or work of art as a historic property or historic district be revoked or removed;
(5)
Restore or preserve any historic properties acquired by the City of Cartersville with the approval of the city council;
(6)
Promote the acquisition by the City of Cartersville of facade easements in accordance with the provisions of "Facade and Conservation Easements Act of 1976" (O.C.G.A. §§ 44-10-1 through 5);
(7)
Conduct educational programs on historic properties located within the City of Cartersville and on general historic preservation activities;
(8)
Make such investigations and studies of matters relating to historic preservation, including consultation with historic preservation experts, as the city council or commission may, from time to time, deem necessary or appropriate for the purposes of preserving historic resources;
(9)
Seek out local, state, federal, and private funds for historic preservation, and make recommendations to the city council concerning the most appropriate uses of any funds acquired;
(10)
Submit to the office of historic preservation of the department of natural resources a list of historic properties or historic districts designated, and seek their comments and advice on said designation;
(11)
Perform historic preservation activities as the official agency of the City of Cartersville's historic preservation program;
(12)
Employ persons, if necessary, to carry out the responsibilities of the commission, upon approval and appropriation by the city council;
(13)
Receive donations, grants, funds, or gifts of historic property and acquire and sell historic properties. The commission shall not obligate the City of Cartersville without prior consent;
(14)
Review and make comments to the historic preservation office of the department of natural resources concerning the nomination of properties within its jurisdiction to the National Register of Historic Places;
(15)
Participate in private, state and federal historic preservation programs and with the consent of the city council enter into agreements to do the same;
(16)
Recommend to the city council such financial and/or other incentives that can be expected to encourage the preservation of the communities' historic resources and provide a positive incentive to affected property owners;
(17)
Consult with historic preservation experts in the historic preservation office of the department of natural resources or its successor, the Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation, Inc., the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Georgia Certified Local Government Program, and other historic commissions.
(e)
Commission's powers to adopt rules and standards. The historic preservation commission shall adopt rules and standards for the transaction of its business and for consideration of applications for designations and certificates of preservation, such as by-laws, removal of membership provisions and design guidelines and criteria. The commission shall have the flexibility to adopt rules and standards without amendment to this chapter. The commission shall meet monthly and shall provide for the time and place of regular meetings and a method for the calling of special meetings. The commission shall select such officers, as it deems appropriate from among its members. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. The latest edition of Roberts' Rules of Order shall determine the order of business at all meetings.
(f)
Conflict of interest. At any time the commission receives a project in which a member of the commission has ownership or other vested interest, including the involvement of relatives, that member will be forbidden from presenting, voting, or discussing the project, other than answering a direct question. Provided, however, the commission member may be excused from sitting in attendance with the commission on such matter and may then address the commission as an affected citizen.
(g)
Records of commission meetings. A public record shall be kept of the commission's resolutions, proceedings and actions.
(h)
Meetings of the commission. The commission shall meet monthly.
(i)
Removal of members for attendance. Any member who fails to attend three (3) consecutive meetings, without cause, may be removed without a public hearing by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § II, 5-17-01; Ord. No. 47-04, §§ 1—3, 6-17-04; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08; Ord. No. 11-19, § 1, 4-4-19; Ord. No. 31-22, § 1, 12-15-22; Ord. No. 19-23, § 1, 5-4-23)
Sec. 9.25-33. - Recommendation and designation of historic districts and historic properties.
(a)
Preliminary research by the commission.
(1)
Commission's mandate to conduct a survey of local historic resources: The commission shall compile and collect information and conduct surveys of historic resources within the City of Cartersville.
(2)
Commission's power to recommend historic districts and properties to the city council for designation: The commission shall present to the city council recommendations for historic district and historic properties.
(3)
Commission's documentation of proposed designation: Prior to the commission's recommendation of a historic district or historic property to the city council for designation, the commission shall prepare a report consisting of:
a.
A physical description;
b.
A statement of the historical, cultural, architectural significance;
c.
A map showing district boundaries and classifications (i.e., historic, non-historic, inclusive) of individual properties therein, or showing boundaries of individual historic properties;
d.
A statement justifying district or individual property boundaries; and
e.
Representative photographs.
(b)
Designation of a historic district.
(1)
Criteria for selection of historic districts: A historic district is a geographically definable area which contains buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof, which:
a.
Have special character or special historic significance;
b.
Represent one (1) or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of one (1) or more eras in the history of the city, county, state or region; and
c.
Cause such area, by reason of such factors, to constitute a visibly perceptible section of the city.
(2)
Boundaries of a historic district: Boundaries of historic districts shall be included in, or amended to, this chapter and shall be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Cartersville as H-1 overlay zones.
(3)
Valuation of properties within historic districts: Individual properties within historic districts shall be classified as:
a.
Contributing: A building, structure, object, site or work of art that adds to the historic architectural qualities or archaeological values for which the district is significant because it was present during the period of significance, relates to the documented significance of the district, and possesses historic integrity or is capable of yielding important information about the period of significance.
b.
Non-contributing: A building, site, structure, work of art, or object that does not add to the historic associations, historic architectural qualities or archaeological values for which a district is significant because it was not present during the period of significance or does not relate to the documented significance of the district, or due to alterations, disturbances, additions, or other changes, it no longer possesses historic integrity or is capable of yielding important information about the period.
(c)
Designation of a historic property.
(1)
Criteria for selection of a historic property: A historic property shall be a building, structure, site, object, landscape feature, or work of art, including the adjacent area necessary for the proper appreciation or use thereof, deemed worthy of preservation by reason of significance to the City of Cartersville, State of Georgia, or local region, for one (1) of the following reasons:
a.
It is an outstanding example of a building, structure, object, or work of art representative of its era;
b.
It is one (1) of the few remaining examples of past architectural styles or types, either in the City of Cartersville or in its respective neighborhood;
c.
It is a place, building, site, object, work of art, or structure associated with an event or person of historical or cultural significance to the City of Cartersville, State of Georgia, or the region; or
d.
It is the site of a natural interest that is continuing to contribute to the historical development and heritage of the city, county, state or region.
(2)
Boundary description for historic properties: Boundaries of historic properties shall be amended to this chapter and shall be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Cartersville as H-1 overlay zones.
(3)
Requirements for adopting an ordinance for the designation of historic districts and historic properties:
a.
Application for designation of historic districts or property may be proposed by the City of Cartersville, the commission, or:
1.
For historic districts—A historical society, neighborhood association, preservation organization, or a group of property owners may apply to the commission for designation.
2.
For historic properties—A historical society, neighborhood association, preservation organization or property owner may apply to the commission for designation.
b.
Required components of a designation ordinance: Any ordinance designating any property as a historic property or any historic district as a historic district shall:
1.
List each property in a proposed historic district or describe the proposed individual historic property;
2.
Set forth the name(s) of the owner(s) of the individual properties with the proposed historic district or of the proposed historic property;
3.
Require that, upon designation, a certificate of preservation be obtained from the commission prior to any material change in appearance of the historic district or historic property;
4.
Require that, upon designation, the historic district or historic property be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Cartersville and kept as a public record to provide notice of such designation.
c.
Required public hearing: The commission and the city council shall each hold a public hearing on any proposed ordinance amendment for the designation of any historic district or property. Notice of the hearings shall be published in at least three (3) consecutive issues in the legal organ which is the principle newspaper of general circulation within Cartersville, Georgia, and written notice of the hearings shall be mailed by the commission to all owners and occupants of such properties. All such notices shall be published or mailed not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the date set for the public hearings. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner of the property shown on the Bartow County Tax Assessors Digest and a notice sent via United States mail to the address of the property to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner and occupant under this chapter.
d.
Recommendation on proposed designations: A recommendation to affirm, modify, or withdraw the proposed ordinance amendment for designation shall be made by the commission within fifteen (15) days following the public hearing and shall be in the form of a resolution to the city council.
e.
City council action on commission recommendation: Following receipt of the commission's recommendation, the city council may adopt the proposed ordinance amendment as proposed, may adopt the proposed ordinance amendments with any changes it deems necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance amendment.
f.
Notification of office of historic preservation: No less than thirty (30) days prior to making a recommendation on any ordinance amendment designating a historic district or a historic property, the commission must submit a report, as required in 9.25-33(a)(3), to the office of historic preservation of the department of natural resources.
g.
Notification of adoption of ordinance for designation: Within thirty (30) days following the adoption of the ordinance amendment for designation by the city council, the owner(s) and occupant(s) of each designated historic property, and the owner(s) and occupant(s) of each structure, site, or work of art located within a designated historic district shall be given written notification of such designation by the city council. This written notice shall inform said owner(s) and occupant(s) of the necessity of obtaining a certificate of preservation prior to undertaking any material changes in appearance of the historic property designated or within the historic district designated. A notice sent via the United States mail to the last known owner(s) of the property shown on the Bartow County Tax Assessors Digest and a notice sent via United States mail to the address of said property or properties to the attention of the occupant shall constitute legal notification to the owner(s) and occupant(s) under this chapter.
h.
Moratorium on applications for alteration or demolition while the ordinance for designation is pending: If an ordinance for designation is being considered, the City Council of the City of Cartersville shall have the power to freeze the status of the involved property for up to sixty (60) days.
i.
Any properties designated as historic properties, or any district designated as a historic district shall in no way effect the established allowable uses set forth in the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the City of Cartersville: All boundaries of designated properties and districts shall overlay existing boundaries of existing or future zones, and the intent of the one (1) shall not be in conflict with the intent of the other.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § III, 5-17-01)
Sec. 9.25-34. - Application to preservation commission for certificate of preservation.
(a)
Approval of alterations in historic districts or involving historic properties. After the designation by ordinance of a historic property or of a historic district, no demolition or material change in the exterior appearance of such historic property, or of a structure, site, object, or work of art within such historic district, shall be made or permitted to be made by the owner or occupant thereof, until a certificate of preservation has been granted by the commission.
(b)
Approval of new construction within designated districts. After the designation by ordinance of a historic district, all new structures constructed within a designated historic district shall require a certificate of preservation which the commission shall issue if these structures conform in design, scale, building materials, setback, and landscaping features to the character of the district specified in the design criteria developed by the commission.
(c)
Guidelines and criteria for certificates of preservation. When considering application for certificates of preservation for historic districts and historic properties, the commission will develop design guidelines specifically for the City of Cartersville to use in evaluating applications for certificates of preservation. See section 9.25-34 for developing design guidelines.
(d)
Submission of plans to commission. An application for a certificate of preservation shall be accompanied by such drawings, photographs, plans, or other documentation as may be required by the commission. Applications involving demolition or relocation shall be accompanied by post-demolition or relocation plans for the site. An application for a certificate of preservation shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(e)
Commission reaction to application for certificates of preservation.
(1)
The commission shall approve or approve with conditions the application and issue a certificate of preservation if it finds that the proposed material change(s) in the appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the historic, or architectural significance of the historic property or historic district. In making this determination, the historic preservation commission shall consider, in addition to other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural significance, architectural style, general design arrangements, texture, and material of the architectural features involved, and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style, and pertinent features of the other structures, buildings, objects, or works of art in the immediate neighborhood.
(2)
The commission shall deny a certificate of preservation if it finds that the proposed new construction or material change(s) in the appearance of an existing structure(s) would have substantial adverse effects on the historic, or architectural significance of the historic property or the historic district. A certificate of preservation may not be denied on the basis of exterior paint color.
(f)
Necessary action to be taken by commission upon rejection of application for certificate of preservation.
(1)
In the event the commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so, and shall transmit a record of such actions and reasons, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he or she so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(2)
In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure, building, object, or work of art which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of the application for a certificate of preservation by the commission shall be binding upon the building official or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits, and in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(g)
Public hearings on applications for certificates of preservation, notices, and right to be heard. At least seven (7) days prior to review of an application for certificate of preservation, the commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected by reason of the application, and shall give applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
(h)
Interior alterations. In its review of applications for certificates of preservation, the commission shall not consider interior arrangements, use, or finish having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(i)
Technical advice. The commission shall have the power to seek technical advice from outside its members on any application.
(j)
Deadline for approval or rejection of application for certificate of preservation.
(1)
The commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny an application for certificate of preservation within forty-five (45) days after the filing of a complete application by the owner or authorized agent of a historic property, or of a structure, site, object, or work of art located within a historic district. An application will not be considered filed until all required information is submitted with the application. Evidence of approval shall be a certificate of preservation issued by the commission. Failure of the commission to act with such forty-five (45) days shall constitute approval and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(k)
Undue hardship. Where, by reason of unusual circumstance, the strict application of any provision of this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of a specific property, the commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to said provisions, or to interpret the meaning of such provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided such variances, modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or historical integrity, or character of the property, shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variances, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. An undue hardship shall not be a situation of the person's own making.
(l)
Requirements of conformance with certificates of preservation.
(1)
All work performed pursuant to an issued certificate of preservation shall conform to the requirements of such certificate. In the event work is performed not in accordance with such certificate, the building official shall issue a cease and desist order and all work shall cease.
(2)
The city council shall be authorized to institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to prevent any material change in appearance of a designated historic property or historic district except those changes made in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such historic property or historic district.
(m)
Certificate of preservation void if construction not commenced. A certificate of preservation shall become void unless construction is commended within six (6) months of date of issuance. Certificates of preservation shall be issued for a period of eighteen (18) months and are renewable.
(n)
Recording of applications for certificates of preservation. The commission shall keep a public record of all applications for certificates of preservation, and all of the commission's proceedings in connection with said application.
(o)
Acquisition of property. The commission may, where such action is authorized by the city council and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, of the property or any interest therein.
(p)
Appeals. Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the commission relative to the issuance of denial of a certificate of preservation may appeal such determination to the city council. Any such appeal must be filed with the city council within thirty (30) days after the issuance of the determination pursuant to section 9.25-34(j)(1) of this chapter. The city council may approve, modify, or reject the determination made by the commission, if the governing body finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. Appeals from decision of the city council may be taken to the Superior Court of Bartow County in the manner provided by law for appeals from conviction for city ordinance violations.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § IV, 5-17-01; Ord. No. 47-04, § 6, 6-17-04)
Sec. 9.25-35. - Maintenance of historic properties and building and zoning code provisions.
(a)
Ordinary maintenance or repair. Ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural or environmental feature in or on a historic property to correct deterioration, decay, or damage, or to sustain the existing form, and that does not involve a material change in design, material or outer appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of preservation. Change in paint color does not require the issuance of a certificate of preservation. Application of all forms of siding, including aluminum, vinyl, asphalt, or other forms does constitute a material change and requires a certificate of preservation.
(b)
Failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair. Owners of designated "historic properties" or properties located within a designated "historic district" shall be required to maintain their property in accordance with existing laws of the City of Cartersville which provide for the same. The Cartersville Historic Preservation Commission does not have the power to require special maintenance of historic properties or historic districts. The commission may, however, request the appropriate city officials to take action on properties being neglected or not maintained.
(c)
Affirmation of existing building and zoning codes. Nothing in this chapter shall be constructed as to exempt property owners from complying with existing city building or zoning codes, nor to prevent any property owner from making any use of this property not prohibited by other statutes, ordinances, or regulations.
(Ord. No. 19-01 § V, 5-17-01; Ord. No. 47-04, § 7, 6-17-04)
Sec 9.25-36. - Design guidelines.
(a)
Identification of design standards. Concurrent with, or immediately following, the designation of any historic district, site, object, building, structure, or work of art, the historic preservation commission shall recommend to the city council a set of "design standards." The standards are intended to identify the characteristic features of the designation that will be used in determining the compatibility of new construction or alteration of size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed by the historic preservation commission to contribute to the character of the historic property. Standards will be used in evaluating the appropriateness of a project for both contributing and non-contributing properties and structures.
(b)
Procedure for adoption of design standards. The historic preservation commission shall draft and recommend the proposed design standards or amendments to the standards, to the city council at a public hearing. Adoption of the standards or revisions to the standards by the city council may only be considered after the historic preservation commission's recommendation and following a public hearing as follows: The city council shall hold a public hearing on the adoption of the design standards or revisions to the standards. Notice of the hearing shall be published in at least three (3) consecutive issues in the legal organ newspaper within Cartersville, Georgia. All such notices shall be published not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20) days prior to the date set for the public hearing.
(c)
Concurrent action. The historic preservation commission may recommend, and the city council may consider and adopt, the design standards or revisions to the standards at the same public hearing and/or meeting as the designation of the corresponding historic district or historic property. The legal notices for the guidelines and designated area(s) may be combined into one (1) notice if the hearings are to be combined.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § VI, 5-17-01; Ord. No. 02-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-37. - Definitions.
Certificate of preservation means a document representing approval by the historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in the appearance of a designated historic property or of a property located within a designated historic district. This is also referred to as a certificate of appropriateness in O.C.G.A. § 44-10-20 et seq. and the terms are interchangeable under the ordinance.
Design guideline or guideline means a recommendation by the historic preservation commission that adheres to traditional and commonly recognized historic preservation practices. A guideline is not a requirement.
Design standard or standard means a design requirement for a certificate of preservation but may be varied or deemed not applicable by the historic preservation commission.
Exterior architectural features means the architectural style, general design and arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including, but not limited to building material and the type and style of windows, doors, signs, and other appurtenant architectural fixtures, features, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
Exterior environmental features and landscape features means all those aspects of the landscape or the development of a site which affect the historical character of the property, i.e., walls, fences, paving, walks, drives, etc., but not plants, trees, or flowers of any kind.
Historic, for the purposes of historic preservation, means a historic structure is one that is fifty (50) years of age or older. A historic structure may be contributing or non-contributing.
Historic district means a geographically definable area which contains structures, buildings, objects, sites, works of art, or a combination thereof which exhibit a special historical, architectural, or environmental character as designated by the commission.
Historic property means an individual building, structure, site, object, or work of art which exhibits a special historical or architectural character as designated by the commission.
Material change in appearance means a change that will affect either the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic property or any buildings, structure site, object, landscape feature or work of art within a historic district, such as:
(1)
A reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape, or facade of a historic property, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration of any architectural features, details, or elements;
(2)
Demolition or relocation of a historic structure;
(3)
Commencement of excavation for construction purposes;
(4)
A change in the location or design of advertising visible from the public right-of-way on any historic property; or
(5)
The erection, alteration, restoration, or removal of any building, structure, object, or work of art within a historic property, including walls, fences, steps, and pavements or other appurtenant features.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § VII, 5-17-01; Ord. No. 47-04, § 8, 6-17-04; Ord. No. 02-20, § 2, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-38. - Penalty provisions.
Violation of any provisions of this chapter shall be punished in the same manner as provided for punishment of violations of other validly enacted ordinances of the City of Cartersville.
(Ord. No. 19-01, § VIII, 5-17-01)
Secs. 9.25-39—9.25.50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - HISTORIC DISTRICTS

Sec. 9.25-51. - In general.
(a)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances performed the following:
(1)
Conducted a survey of local historic purposes.
(2)
Recommended to the mayor and city council the designation of historic districts and properties.
(b)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances section 9.25-33(3) has prepared a report on the designation of two (2) historic districts to the city council. The reports are for the Downtown Business Historic District and Olde Town Historic District. Each report contains a physical description, statement of the historical, cultural, architectural significance of the district, a statement justifying the district boundaries, and representative photographs;
(c)
Whereas, the Downtown Business Historic District report is attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and included herein by reference;
(d)
Whereas, Olde Town Historic District report is attached hereto as Exhibit "B" and included herein by reference;
(e)
Whereas, historic preservation commission has determined that the Downtown Business Historic District and Olde Town Historic Districts are geographically definable areas which contain buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof which have special character or special historical significance and/or represent one (1) or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of eras in the history of the city, county, stated or region;
(f)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has valued each property within the Downtown Business Historic District and designated them as contributing or non-contributing, as indicated on the designation list attached hereto as Exhibit "C" and included herein by reference;
(g)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has valued each property within the Olde Town Historic District and designated them as contributing or non-contributing, as indicated on the designation list attached hereto as Exhibit "D" and included herein by reference;
(h)
Whereas, a list of the name(s) of the owners of the individual properties included in the Downtown Business Historic District and Olde Town Historic Districts shall be included and made a part of the designation ordinance for each respective historic district;
(i)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has proposed general guidelines for structures contributing to the historic residential districts, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "E" and included herein by reference, for recommendation to the mayor and city council;
(j)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines and the Downtown Business Historic District on August 19, 2003 at 5:30 p.m. A copy of the minutes is attached hereto as Exhibit "F";
(k)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines and the Olde Town Historic District on April 15, 2003. A copy of the minutes is attached hereto as Exhibit "G";
(l)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission at their meeting on August 26, 2003 by resolution forwarded their recommendation and report to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville;
(m)
Whereas, the mayor and city council on the 20 th day of November, 2003 conducted a public hearing on the proposed design guidelines, the Downtown Business Historic District, Olde Town Historic District, and related matters a copy of said minutes are attached hereto as Exhibit "H" and included herein by reference;
(n)
Whereas, all of the above meetings were advertised pursuant to state law and the code of ordinances and copies of said advertisements are attached hereto as Exhibit "I" and included herein by reference;
(o)
Whereas, a copy of sample notices to be sent to all property owners in the district are attached hereto as Exhibit "J" and included herein by reference; and
(p)
Whereas, after review and consideration of the above documents, the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville have determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of Cartersville to adopt the design guidelines and Downtown Business Historic District and Olde Town Historic Districts.
(q)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances performed the following:
(1)
Conducted a survey of local historic purposes.
(2)
Recommended to the mayor and city council the designation of historic districts and properties.
(r)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances subsection 9.25-33(3) has prepared a report on the designation of an additional historic district to the city council. The reports are for the West End Historic District. Each report contains a physical description, statement of the historical, cultural, architectural significance of the district, a statement justifying the district boundaries, and representative photographs;
(s)
Whereas, the West End Historic District report is attached hereto as Exhibit "J" and included herein by reference;
(t)
Whereas, historic preservation commission has determined that the West End Historic District are geographically definable areas which contain buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof which have special character or special historical significance and/or represent one (1) or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of eras in the history of the city, county, stated or region;
(u)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has valued each property within the West End Historic District and designated them as contributing or non-contributing, as indicated on the designation list attached hereto as Exhibit "K" and included herein by reference;
(v)
Whereas, a list of the name(s) of the owners of the individual properties included in the West End Historic District shall be included and made a part of the designation ordinance for each respective historic district;
(w)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has general guidelines for structures contributing to the historic residential districts, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "L" and included herein by reference, for recommendation to the mayor and city council;
(x)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines and the West End Historic District on December 8 at 7:00 p.m. A copy of the minutes is attached hereto as Exhibit "M";
(y)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission at their meeting on December 20, 2005 by resolution forwarded their recommendation and report to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville;
(z)
Reserved;
(aa)
Whereas, the mayor and city council on the ________ day of ________, 2006 conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines, the West End Historic District, and related matters a copy of said minutes are attached hereto as Exhibit "N" and included herein by reference;
(bb)
Whereas, all of the above meetings were advertised pursuant to state law and the code of ordinances and copies of said advertisements are attached hereto as Exhibit "O" and included herein by reference;
(cc)
Whereas, a copy of sample notices sent to all property owners and occupants in the district are attached hereto as Exhibit "P" and included herein by reference; and
(dd)
Whereas, after review and consideration of the above documents, the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville have determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of Cartersville to adopt the design guidelines and West End Historic Districts;
(ee)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances performed the following:
(1)
Conducted a survey of local historic purposes.
(2)
Recommended to the mayor and city council the designation of historic districts and properties.
(ff)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances section 9.25-33(3) has prepared a report on the designation of an additional historic district to the city council. The reports are for the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District. Each report contains a physical description, statement of the historical, cultural, architectural significance of the district, a statement justifying the district boundaries, and representative photographs;
(gg)
Whereas, the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District report is attached hereto as Exhibit "Q" and included herein by reference;
(hh)
Whereas, historic preservation commission has determined that the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District are geographically definable areas which contain buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof which have special character or special historical significance and/or represent one (1) or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of eras in the history of the city, county, stated or region;
(ii)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has valued each property within the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District and designated them as contributing or non-contributing, as indicated on the designation list attached hereto as Exhibit "R" and included herein by reference;
(jj)
Whereas, a list of the name(s) of the owners of the individual properties included in the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District shall be included and made a part of the designation ordinance for each respective historic district;
(kk)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has general guidelines for structures contributing to the historic residential districts, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "S" and included herein by reference, for recommendation to the mayor and city council;
(ll)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines and the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District on July 17, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. A copy of the minutes is attached hereto as Exhibit "T";
(mm)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission at their meeting on July 17, 2007 by resolution forwarded their recommendation and report to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville. A copy of the resolution is attached hereto as Exhibit "T1";
(nn)
Whereas, the mayor and city council on the 16th day of August, 2007 conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines, the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District, and related matters a copy of said minutes are attached hereto as Exhibit "U" and included herein by reference;
(oo)
Whereas, all of the above meetings were advertised pursuant to state law and the code of ordinances and copies of said advertisements are attached hereto as Exhibit "V" and included herein by reference;
(pp)
Whereas, a copy of sample notices sent to all property owners and occupants in the district are attached hereto as Exhibit "W" and included herein by reference; and
(qq)
Whereas, after review and consideration of the above documents, the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville have determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of Cartersville to adopt the design guidelines and Cherokee-Cassville Historic Districts.
(rr)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances performed the following:
(1)
Conducted a survey of local historic purposes.
(2)
Recommended to the mayor and city council the designation of historic districts and properties.
(ss)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has pursuant to the requirements of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances section 9.25-33(3) has prepared a report on the designation of an additional historic district to the city council. The reports are for the Granger Hill Historic District. Each report contains a physical description, statement of the historical, cultural, architectural significance of the district, a statement justifying the district boundaries, and representative photographs;
(tt)
Whereas, the Granger Hill Historic District report is attached hereto as Exhibit "AA" and included herein by reference;
(uu)
Whereas, historic preservation commission has determined that the Granger Hill Historic District is a geographically definable area which contain buildings, structures, sites, objects, landscape features and works of art or a combination thereof which have special character or special historical significance and/or represent one (1) or more periods, styles, or types of architecture typical of eras in the history of the city, county, state or region;
(vv)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has valued each property within the Granger Hill Historic District and designated them as contributing or noncontributing, as indicated on the designation list attached hereto as Exhibit "BB" and included herein by reference;
(ww)
Whereas, a list of the name(s) of the owners of the individual properties included in the Granger Hill Historic District shall be included and made a part of the designation ordinance for each respective historic district;
(xx)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission has general guidelines for structures contributing to the historic residential districts, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit "CC" and included herein by reference, for recommendation to the mayor and city council;
(yy)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines and the Granger Hill Historic District on November 17, 2009, at 5:30 p.m. A copy of the minutes is attached hereto as Exhibit "DD";
(zz)
Whereas, the historic preservation commission at their meeting on November 17, 2009, by resolution forwarded their recommendation and report to the Mayor and City Council of the City of Cartersville, a copy is attached hereto as Exhibit "EE";
(aaa)
Whereas, the mayor and city council on the 17th day of December 2009 conducted a public hearing on the design guidelines, the Granger Hill Historic District, and related matters a copy of said minutes are attached hereto as Exhibit "FF" and included herein by reference;
(bbb)
Whereas, all of the above meetings were advertised pursuant to state law and the Code of Ordinances and copies of said advertisements are attached hereto as Exhibit "GG" and included herein by reference;
(ccc)
Whereas, a copy of sample notices sent to all property owners and occupants in the district are attached hereto as Exhibit "HH" and included herein by reference; and
(ddd)
Whereas, after review and consideration of the above documents, the mayor and city council of the City of Cartersville have determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of Cartersville to adopt the design guidelines and Granger Hill Historic District.
The exhibits referenced herein are a part of the ordinance and are included herein by reference and are to be kept by the city clerk in the vault of the City of Cartersville.
(Ord. No. 04-04, § 2, 2-5-04; Ord. No. 06-06, § 1, 2-16-06; Ord. No. 40-07, § 1, 9-6-07; Ord. No. 03-10, § 1, 1-7-10)
Sec. 9.25-52. - Downtown Business Historic District.
The City Council of the City of Cartersville adopts the Downtown Business Historic District as indicated herein.
(a)
Boundaries. The boundaries of the Downtown Business Historic District are as follows:
Begin at the point of intersection of the northern right-of-way of Leake Street with the Eastern right-of-way of S. Bartow Street, said point being the Point of Beginning.
Thence along the northern right-of-way of Leake Street to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way of S. Tennessee Street; thence along the western right-of-way of S. Tennessee Street and N. Tennessee Street to the point of intersection with the northern right-of-way of Church Street, thence along the northern right-of-way of Church Street to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way of Gilmer Street; thence along the western right-of-way of Gilmer Street to the point of intersection with the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C00100001004; thence along the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C00100001004 and C00100001001 to the point of intersection with the eastern right-of-way of Railroad Street a/k/a Museum Drive; thence along the eastern right-of-way of Railroad Street a/k/a Museum Drive to the point of intersection with the southern right-of-way of Church Street; thence along the southern right-of-way of Church Street to the point of intersection on the southern right-of-way of Church Street with western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C00200014001; thence along the eastern property line in a southerly direction to the point of intersection with the southern right-of-way of W. Cherokee Avenue being approximately 335 ' and being the point of intersection of the with the western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C00200013004; thence along the southern right-of-way of W. Cherokee Avenue to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way of Noble Street; thence along the western right-of-way of Noble Street to the point of intersection with the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C00200012002; thence along the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcels C00200012002, C00200012013, C00200012012, and C00200012011 to the point of intersection with the eastern right-of-way of N. Bartow Street; thence along the eastern right-of-way of N. Bartow Street and S. Bartow Street to the point of intersection with the northern right-of-way of Leake Street, said point being the Point of Beginning.
(b)
Designation of contributing/non-contributing property owners list. The following is a list of all properties and property owners of the Downtown Business Historic District and designation of each property as contributing or non-contributing pursuant to the City of Cartersville Historic Preservation Ordinance.
*Status N - Non Contributing C-Contributing
EXPAND
Business Name
Alt Address Status*
Lancaster Attorney 109 E. Church St N
Elite Hair 135 W. Main St. C
Main St. Antiques 125 W. Main St. C
Patcharee Thai 19 Public Square C
Booth Western Museum 501 Museum Drive N
Anverse Inc. 6 E. Church St C
Bartow History Museum 13 Wall St. C
Foundation Science Center 1 N. Gilmer St. C
Ross and Sons Cafe 17 Wall St. C
Theater 5 Wall St. C
Theater Dressing Room 2 N. Gilmer St. C
Theater Lobby 3 Wall St. C
Theater Space 1 Wall St. C
WBHF 11 Wall St. C
Greene & Greene 100 W. Main St. C
Jordon Scott Salon 30 W. Main St. C
Edward Jones Investments 31 Public Square C
Franklin Travel 19 S. Gilmer St. C
Occupant 102 W. Main St. C
Occupant 103 W. Main St. C
Edward Jones 31 Public Square C
George F. Willis Realty 29 Public Square C
Hudson Construction 23 Public Square C
Smith & Smith Civil Engineering 21 Public Square C
Sulzer 25 Public Square C
Bank of America 102 E. Main St. C
Occupant 101 S. Erwin St. C
Drive-Thru 21 Leake St. C
Bridges Insurance Agency 23 Wall St. C
Psycho Sisters 17 E. Main St. C
Summey's 145 W. Main St. C
Occupant 178 W. Main St. N
Koo Karate 41 Public Square C
Occupant 43 Public Square C
Chamber Building 122 W. Main St. N
Georgia International Life 17 Public Square C
Occupant 121 Leake St. C
Craft Corner / Wall to Wall Frames 14 Wall St. C
Occupant 16 S. Erwin St. N
Occupant 25 W. Main St. C
Occupant 28 E. Main St. C
Occupant 30 E. Main St. C
Antonino's 28 Wall St. C
Embroidery 26 W. Main St. C
Inside Out 16 Wall St. C
Morgan Stanley Dean Whitter 26 Wall St. C
Rush Home 18 W. Main St. C
Tattoo 24 E. Main St. C
W-D Archery 16 W. Main St. C
    EXPAND
Business Name Alt Address
Status*
Fast Page 32 E. Main St. C
AutoPro Title Pawn Inc. 2 N. Tennessee St. N
Taco & Sub 4 N. Tennessee St. N
Young's 2 W. Main St. C
Greg's Pawn Shop 17 E. Church St C
Southern Voice and Data 9 S. Gilmer St. C
Kim's Antiques 129 W. Main St. C
Bartow Loan 108 W. Main St. C
Candlewick Book Store 21 Wall St. C
Cartersville Sewing and Vacuum Center 6 Wall St. C
Hair Today 18 Wall St. C
Occupant 12 Wall St. C
Lowery Dental 13 N. Erwin St. C
Occupant 148 W. Main St. N
Ed Dickey's Realty 163 W. Main St. C
Occupant 199 S. Erwin St. N
Specialty Accounting 29 W. Main St. C
Nelson's Appliance 162 W. Main St. N
Occupant 152 W. Main St. N
Occupant 114 Cherokee Ave. C
Occupant 121 W. Main St. C
H & K Golf 131 S. Gilmer St. N
Occupant 5 S. Gilmer St. C
Katrina's Nails 115 S. Gilmer St. N
Coldwell 25 E. Main St. C
City Cab 17 Noble St. N
H. Danial Insurance 15 S. Gilmer St. C
Thrift Store 13 Public Square C
Haigler Systems 26 E. Church St C
Cartersville Pawn 134 W. Main St. N
Wade Evertt Attorney 127 W. Main St. C
Stained Glass 10 W. Main St. C
Ga. Probation 123 W. Main St. C
Nelson's Home Furnishings 162 W. Main St. N
Iris Cleaners 139 W. Main St. C
Occupant 24 W. Main St. C
Warehouse 103 Railroad St. N
Angel's 151 W. Main St. C
Wall Street Cigars 10 Wall St. C
Foxgloves 114 W. Main St. C
Let's Roll / Foxgloves 110 W. Main St. C
Tonsmeire 29 Wall St. C
Village Porch Cafe 25 Wall St. C
Appalachian Grill 16 E. Church St. C
Carpets by Gregory 21 E. Main St. C
Cartersville Antique Gallery 9 E. Main St. C
Foxgloves 112 W. Main St. C
John Lewis 11 E. Main St. C
Kathy's Beauty Salon 15 E. Main St. C
Main St. Books & Coffee 5 E. Main St. C
Meg Pie Collection 10 E. Church St C
Occupant 119 W. Main St. C
Occupant 22 E. Church St. C
P. Cole Law PC 12 S. Erwin St. C
Pauper & Prince 12 E. Church St. C
Periwinkle 24 E. Church St. C
Shaving Gallery 18 E. Church St. C
Shaving Gallery 20 E. Church St. C
The Herb Shop 19 E. Main St. C
Jenkins and Olson 15 Public Square C
4-Way 31 E. Main St. C
Church Shop 21 W. Main St. C
Primerica 105 W. Main St. C
Occupant 32 W. Main St. C
Starr - Mathis Ins. 34 W. Main St. C
M. F. McCord 123 Leake St. C
Howard Insurance 11 S. Gilmer St. C
Yoga Center 18 S. Erwin St. C
Harry Daniel Insurance 13 S. Gilmer St. C
Occupant 3 E. Main St. C
Eagles 28 W. Main St. C
Love Joy 20 W. Main St. C
Occupant 162 W. Main St. N
E. D. Jones 1 S. Gilmer St. C
Storage for Theater 8 E. Cherokee St. C
Occupant 21 E. Church St C
Peoples Financial 8 N. Tennessee St. C
Dabbs Realty 13 S. Gilmer St. C
Supervisor Services 113 S. Erwin St. C
J. Brandon 5 Public Square C
Pheonix Screen Printing 39 Public Square C
The Gallery 14 W. Main St. C
Moon River Cafe 101 W. Main St. C
Moon River Cafe 13 S. Erwin St. C
Occupant 6 Wall St. C
Occupant 8 Wall St. C
Taylor Farm Supply 11 Leake St. N
Turner's Cleaners 155 W. Main St. C
Peachtree Planning 111 Leake St. C
Franklin Furniture 144 W. Main St. N
Occupant 107 Leake St. C
Occupant 100 W. Church St. C
Occupant 109 W. Church St. C
Occupant 117 Leake St. NC
Quizno's 20 Wall St. C
Neel Law Firm 132 W. Cherokee St C
W.M. Furniture 2 Wall St. N
Occupant 16 W. Main St. C
W. Cetti Law Firm 10 S. Erwin St. C
Mission Tire 121 S. Gilmer St. C
Occupant 120 S. Tennessee St. C
Akin's Law Office 11 Public Square C
Akin's Law Office 9 Public Square C
Boyd Pettit Attorney 11 S. Erwin St. C
Occupant 139 Leake St. C
White, Choate, Watkins Attorney 100 W. Cherokee N
  (c)
Overlay map. The zoning map of the City of Cartersville shall be amended to show the Downtown Business Historic District as an overlay on said zoning map and said overlay on said zoning map and said overlay shall be designated as the H-1DBD Historic District.
(d)
Design standards. The following design standards are adopted for the Downtown Business Historic District:
CARTERSVILLE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS HISTORIC DISTRICT
GENERAL STANDARDS
INTRODUCTION
The following Downtown Business Historic District Design Standards are intended to identify the character-defining features of a site or structure used in determining the compatibility of the proposed alteration, repair, renovation, rehabilitation or restoration of an existing structure or the construction of a new structure regarding the appropriateness of the size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed as contributing to the character of a historic property or structure as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
For items not addressed by the following standards or guidelines, the Commission will refer to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, latest edition, for guidance.
Preservation of character-defining elements of historic buildings is a priority, and alterations and repairs should accurately represent the historic qualities of the buildings. Original documentation shall be used for restoration work, if available. Where original documentation is unavailable, interpretations of similar elements that occurred in the area may be considered.
In filing for a Certificate of Preservation all standards shall be complied with and so demonstrated on said application and supporting documentation. Guidelines, as indicated herein, may or may not be demonstrated in the application or supporting documentation for a Certificate of Preservation. Maintenance recommendations, if any, are included for informational purposes only and are not required to be included in an application for a Certificate of Preservation and as such shall not be considered by the Commission in reviewing said applications.
PART 1—EXISTING STRUCTURES:
1.
Changes in use:
A change in use is not regulated, but every reasonable effort should be made to provide a compatible use for the building that will require minimal alteration to the building and its site.
2.
Original design character:
Adhere to the original design character of the building. Analyze the building to determine which elements are essential to its character. Do not alter the structures' facade to make it appear newer or older than it actually is. The historic character of the Downtown Business Historic District should be expressed.
3.
Historical changes:
Preserve older alterations that have achieved historic significance. An example is an addition or entryway that was added to the original building early in its history. More recent alterations that are not historically significant may be removed.
4.
Plan and implement strategies:
A.
Evaluate the historic property and create a plan for implementing strategies for preservation, rehabilitation, restoration, reconstruction, alterations to the exterior, and additions.
B.
Rehabilitation work shall not destroy the distinguishing character of the structure. Match the original material when feasible. Alternative materials shall be considered by the Commission. Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired, rather than replaced, whenever possible. Patch, piece-in, splice, consolidate, or otherwise upgrade the existing material using recognized preservation methods whenever possible. Alternative materials shall be considered by the Commission.
C.
Replacement of missing architectural elements shall be based on accurate duplications of original features. In the event replacement is necessary, the new material shall match that being replaced in design, lor, texture, and other physical qualities. The design shall be substantiated by physical or pictorial evidence.
D.
Where reconstruction of an element is impossible because of lack of historical evidence, a new design that relates to the building in general size, scale and material shall be considered using design elements that reflect the building's style.
E.
During repair or rehabilitation, protect and maintain historic features that survive in generally good condition. Treatments include rust removal, caulking, sealing and repainting. Original materials and details that contribute to the historic significance of the structure shall be preserved.
F.
When disassembly of a historic element is necessary for its rehabilitation, one shall use methods that minimize damage to the original materials. Devise methods of replacing the disassembled materials in their original configuration.
5.
Roofs:
A.
Preserve original pitch and shape of the roof forms where they contribute to the historic character of the building. Replace existing roof materials with the same type of material where it is visible from the street unless an alternative material is approved by the Commission. Rooftop mechanical systems, satellite dishes, and similar devices shall be unobtrusive and located out of public view unless approved by the Commission.
B.
Maintain historic chimneys.
C.
Do not remove ornamental roof features.
D.
Do not use shingled, mansard roofs.
6.
Cornices:
A.
A cornice is the decorative strip along the top of most historic commercial buildings. It caps off the facade physically and visually. Cornices are usually constructed of brick, wood, cast iron, or sheet metal, and occasionally, the horizontal supporting beam acts as a cornice.
B.
Original cornices shall be preserved. Damaged cornices shall be repaired without disturbing the rest of the cornice, using like materials, unless an alternative material is approved by the Commission.
7.
Upper fronts:
A.
The upper front of a building is the section of the facade above the main storefront. Do not fill in upper window openings.
B.
A second story addition shall maintain the historical architecture of the building. The addition of a front porch or balcony where none existed previously is prohibited unless approved by Commission.
8.
Facades:
A.
The basic commercial facade consists of two (2) main parts: the storefront and entrance with display windows; and the upper front, usually with regularly spaced windows and a cornice. The storefront and upper front are visually important.
B.
The elements of the facade shall be retained as closely as possible to those of the original structure, using existing original materials unless an alternative material is approved by the Commission.
C.
If parts of the facade are missing, design and reconstruction shall be based on historical, pictorial, or physical documentation. When documentation is unavailable, a new design for a missing element shall be compatible with the size, scale, and material of the historic building.
9.
Exterior walls:
A.
Painting, sealing or applying other types of coatings to unpainted masonry is prohibited without Commission approval. One shall not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials. When repointing brick or other masonry walls, one shall use a historic mortar mix (softer than modern mixes), matching the original mortar joints.
B.
Maintain historic exterior materials. As part of a renovation, repair damaged exterior materials with like materials only in the area of damage. One shall not use imitation or faux brick, stone, wood siding, metal siding or aggregates on the building facade unless approved by the Commission.
C.
Maintain historic exterior materials. As part of maintenance, repair damaged exterior materials with like materials only in the area of damage. One shall not use imitation or faux brick, stone, wood siding, metal siding or aggregates on the building facade unless approved by the Commission.
10.
Storefronts:
A.
Common historic storefront design consists of large, thinly framed windows and a recessed entrance. Frequently, there is a cornice at the top of the storefront to separate it from the upper facade, and low bulkheads at the base of the storefront to protect the windows and define the entrance.
B.
Historic storefronts shall be repaired rather than replaced or covered. Retain historic elements, such as bulkheads or cast iron columns. Storefronts can consist of a variety of materials similar to those of the rest of the building. If replacement of elements is required, new materials shall match the original in placement, composition, design, texture and other visual qualities. The frame can be wood, cast iron, or anodized aluminum. Bulkheads are generally wood panels, aluminum-clad plywood, polished stone, glass, or tile.
C.
Where the original storefront no longer exists, replacement shall be based on historical research, physical or pictorial evidence, and be compatible with nearby historic buildings. One shall not extend the storefront out of its place in the facade. It should be in the same plane as the upper facade and shall not extend beyond the original opening.
D.
One shall retain transom windows, reopening previously covered transoms whenever possible. One shall not enclose, replace the window type, cover, or install air conditioning units in transom windows.
11.
Exterior details:
A.
Details can be some of the most striking elements of a building's facade. Since the design and size of many commercial buildings are quite similar, their unique decorations should be noted and preserved.
B.
Subtle wood details, such as window moldings, shall be retained. One shall not add architectural details where none existed before, such as colonial doors, small windowpanes, or storefront shutters unless approved by the Commission.
C.
Decorative tile and structural, pigmented, beveled, stained, leaded or etched glass contributing to the original historic value of the structure shall be retained.
D.
All decorative terra cotta and all forms of brick work and stonework shall be repaired and maintained. Historic cast iron and sheet metal decorations, common on many nineteenth century buildings, shall be preserved.
12.
Windows—Storefront:
A.
Retain large display windows characteristic of commercial buildings in their original size, shape, and proportions. Preserve original window components, replacing only damaged portions. When replacing glass or restoring windows, retain the original configuration, size and shape of the storefront opening.
B.
Display windows shall use clear glass only; transom windows can be clear, tinted or stained. Neither shall have dividing mullions.
C.
Restore previously enclosed display windows when the original design is documented.
D.
One shall not fill in window spaces or add storm windows which obscure the historic windows. If dropped ceilings cover part of the window openings, have the drop setback so the entire window space appears open from the outside. One shall not add decorative exterior shutters that do not fit the windows.
13.
Windows—Upper front:
A.
Existing windows shall be repaired unless an alternative is approved by the Commission. If required, replacement windows shall fill the entire opening and match the original windows in material, configuration, and style. If an aluminum frame is used, it shall be painted to match the remaining windows. Storm windows shall be either mounted inside or painted to match the window sash.
B.
Upper story windows help tie together all the facades on a street. They give a building the appearance of vitality and shall not be filled in or covered.
14.
Awnings and canopies:
A.
The canvas awning was an important design element common in the traditional storefront. Awnings shelter passersby, reduce glare, and conserve energy by controlling the amount of sunlight that hits the store windows. Movable awnings can be retracted allowing the sun to shine into a building in the winter and can be extended to shade the storefront from summer heat. Awnings can also effectively and tactfully disguise inappropriate storefront alterations.
B.
There are a variety of materials for awnings, including canvas, vinyl-coated canvas, and carillon, a synthetic material. Standard street-level awnings shall be mounted between the display windows and the first-floor cornice or sign panel with the valance about seven (7) feet above the sidewalk. They shall reinforce the frame of the storefront without covering up the side piers, and shall project four (4) to seven (7) feet from the building. A twelve-inch valance flap is usually attached at the awning bar and can serve as a sign panel.
C.
Canopies that are intact and are an integral part of the building shall be preserved. For smaller canopies one may consider the addition of a canvas over the rails, and a twelve- to twenty-four-inch skirt along the front and sides.
Guidelines:
Since the average life of an awning is between four (4) and seven (7) years, the only records of authentic awnings are old photographs or renderings, unless awnings have been maintained regularly through the years. Reference old photographs to determine an awning appropriate for a building. An awning can bring attention to a building, but care should be given to its design. Consider how it will appear in relation to the scale of a building to others on the street. An appropriately designed and placed awning can save money, identify a storefront, and create a pleasant sidewalk experience.
15.
Entrances and doors:
A.
Retain original recessed entries where they exist. Use building symmetry to suggest location, preferably recessed and canted. Retain tiled entryway floors. On upper levels, maintain historic door placements. One shall not add new entrances to secondary levels on the facade.
B.
Entrance doors on historic commercial buildings usually have a large, clear glass panel and are made of wood, steel, or aluminum. Replacement doors shall resemble the original in design, materials, size and proportions.
C.
Retain doors, hardware, trim and the original number of doors and their original locations. One shall not install unfinished aluminum doors or residential doors. One shall not add transom or sidelight windows where none existed previously.
16.
Building additions:
A.
Design an addition to be compatible with the historic building in mass, form, materials, and relationship of solid surfaces to windows and doors in the exterior walls, yet make the addition discernible from the original.
B.
One shall not construct an addition if it will detract from the overall historic character of the principal building and the site, or if it will require the removal of a significant building element or site feature.
C.
Construct new additions so that there is the least possible loss of historic fabric and that the character-defining features of the historic building are not destroyed, damaged, or obscured.
D.
Design new additions so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and views are retained.
E.
Locate a new addition to the rear of the structure or behind the front facade.
F.
New parking lots shall be located to the side or rear of a structure unless an alternate location is approved by the Commission.
PART TWO—NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
1.
Building form and scale:
A.
Any new building constructed in the Downtown Business Historic District will make a significant visual impact on the streetscape. It is important to consider the character and scale of the surroundings and adjacent buildings to insure the new structure will be compatible. New buildings shall appear similar in mass and scale to historic structures in the area. Use building forms and roof forms that match those used historically.
B.
Building height shall be comparable to adjacent structures. Where new building facades will be wider than those found traditionally, subdivide the surface into proportions similar in scale to historic facades by varying setback, roof forms, and materials. New construction shall be sensitive to the size, scale, proportion, material, shape, texture, and rhythm of its neighbors.
2.
Reconstruction:
A.
Infill designs should not attempt to duplicate the period and style of the adjacent buildings, or try to look "old" by using period proportions and materials. The designs should complement the buildings in the area but represent the style of the period in which it is built.
B.
Reconstruction may be considered as a treatment when: 1) a contemporary depiction is required to understand and interpret a property's historic value, (2) no other property with the same associative value has survived; and, 3) when sufficient historical documentation exists to ensure an accurate reproduction.
3.
Building orientation and site placement:
A.
New buildings will respect the placement of nearby historic buildings by being placed at a setback equal to that of nearby similar historic buildings or similar buildings within the district. It is required to align new buildings with the established setbacks of the area. Nontraditional lots can be given special consideration by the HPC.
B.
Buildings with party walls, such as those along Wall Street, Main Street, Public Square, and East Church Street (under the bridge) shall maintain zero lot line placement. New buildings on these streets will not have side setbacks, but will use party walls.
4.
Entrance orientation:
New construction will face the same street as nearby similar buildings. Respect traditional designs used for building entrances of similar buildings in the district, using, for example, a recessed entrance where appropriate.
5.
Windows:
The size and proportion of window and door openings of a building shall be similar to those on surrounding facades. The same applies to the ratio of window area to solid wall for the facade as a whole. Maintain the rhythm of the surrounding windows.
6.
Materials:
A.
Use building materials that are similar to those employed historically for all major surfaces. Brick, stone and terra cotta may be used in unlimited quantities.
B.
Wood may be used on the first story (store-front level) for architectural elements such as pilasters, cornices, decorative raised panels, etc., but wood shall not be used as a general siding material.
C.
Concrete and precast concrete use is limited to architectural elements such as window hoods, cornices, columns and capitals. Glazed block or ceramic tile may be used as accent material only.
D.
Prohibited materials on building facades include metal, aluminum, or vinyl siding and preformed panels, or porcelain or baked enamel metal panels. Other materials may be used if their appearances are similar to those of historic building materials.
7.
Plant beds and plantings:
The goal is to beautify the district and make it more pleasant for pedestrian traffic. Locate plantings in traditional areas of the site, such as along fences, walks, and foundations. Well-maintained concrete planters that harmonize with nearby buildings and existing streetscape are recommended.
8.
Walls and fences:
A.
The goal is to maintain the pattern of existing fencing in the Downtown Business Historic District and to use fencing and walls to screen parking and storage areas. Maintain traditional fence lines or dominant fence lines in the vicinity. New fence and wall designs shall be appropriate for the primary structure and reinforce the pedestrian scale instead of forming barriers or exclusionary walls.
B.
Privacy fences shall not be placed flush with the facade of a building.
C.
New fences should limit their impact by being placed behind the rear elevation and by using traditional materials, such as wood. Any obtrusive fence shall be further screened from public view by evergreen vegetation or a second traditional fence.
9.
Pavement:
Historic walks and drives shall be repaired rather than replaced. If replacement is required, new materials shall match the original in placement, composition, design, texture and other visual qualities as determined by the Commission.
10.
Parking lots:
A.
Parking lots shall not be allowed in the front yard. Side or rear locations are required. Plan parking lots to be subdivided into small components so that the visual impact of large paved areas is reduced. Include islands of plantings in the interior of lots, and provide planting buffers at the edges of parking lots.
B.
If walls are required to screen parking lots, then they shall be constructed at a height that screens parked vehicles. The facade line of nearby historic buildings shall be maintained. Traditional materials, such as brick, shall be used.
11.
Service areas and equipment:
Screen service equipment and trash containers from public view. The visual impact of mechanical and electrical equipment shall be minimized. (See also walls and fences).
12.
Signs:
A.
Signs shall be subordinate to the architecture and overall character throughout the district. Sign materials shall be compatible with the building materials. The types and sizes of signs allowed are defined in the sign ordinance of the City of Cartersville.
B.
Position flush-mounted signs so they will fit within architectural features. Locate flush signs so they do not extend beyond the outer edges of the building front. Avoid obscuring ornament and detail.
C.
Locate projecting signs along the first floor level of the facade. Positions near the building's entrance are encouraged. Locate pole-mounted signs in landscaped areas.
D.
Where several businesses share a building, coordinate the signs. Align several smaller signs, or group them onto a single panel. Use similar forms or backgrounds for the signs to visually tie them together.
13.
Additions:
A.
New additions shall not obscure or confuse the essential form and character of the original building. Exteriors shall be compatible with the size scale, material, and character of the main building and its environment.
B.
New additions shall not be allowed that would hinder the ability to interpret the design character of the historic period of the district. Site additions back from the building front so they will not alter the historic rhythm of building fronts.
C.
When locating additions to historic buildings, maintain the pattern created by the repetition of building fronts in the area. Locate additions so they will not obscure or damage significant ornamentation or detail. Special moldings, decorative windows, or dormers shall be preserved. Generally, additions shall be sited to the side or rear of the original structure.
14.
Demolition:
A.
Before demolition, one shall submit a site plan to the Commission for review that illustrates the proposed site development or plantings to follow demolition.
B.
During and after demolition, protect the trees on the site from damage due to compaction of the soil by equipment or materials.
C.
After demolition, clear the site promptly and thoroughly. Plant or develop the site promptly as approved in the proposed site plan.
(e)
Effective date. This district shall become effective on April 1, 2004.
(Ord. No. 04-04, § 2, 2-5-04; Ord. No. 03-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-53. - Olde Town Historic District.
The City Counsel of the City of Cartersville adopts the Olde Town Historic District as indicated herein.
(a)
Boundaries. The boundaries of the Olde Town Historic District are as follows:
Begin at the point of intersection of the northern right-of-way of Leake Street with the eastern right-of-way of Etowah Drive, said point being the Point of Beginning.
Thence traveling along the eastern right-of-way of Etowah Drive in a southerly direction to the point of intersection of the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600200001, thence along the southerly property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcel C160020001, C160020027, C160020028, C160020026, C160020025 to its point of intersection with the western right-of-way of Luckie Street, thence from the point of intersection of the western right-of-way of Luckie Street and the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C160020025 in an easterly direction to the point of intersection of the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600019001 and the eastern right-of-way of Luckie Street; thence in an easterly direction along the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600019001 to its intersection with the western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C160019033; thence in a southerly direction along the western line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C16000190033 to its southern property line; thence in an easterly direction along the southern property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C1600019033, C1600019032, C1600019031, and C1600019030, thence along the eastern property line of said parcel to its intersection with the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600019029; thence easterly along the southern lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C1600019029, C1600019028 and C1600019027 to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way of S. Bartow Street and the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600019027; thence in a southeasterly direction to the point of intersection of the eastern right-of-way of S. Bartow Street and the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600008008; thence in an easterly direction along the southern property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C1600008008, C1600008007, C1600008006, and C1600008025 to the eastern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600008025; thence in a southerly direction along the western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600008002 to the southern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1600008002; thence in an easterly direction along the southern property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C1600008002, C16000080001 to the point of intersection of the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C1700017007; thence in a southerly direction along the western property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C170017007, C1700017005 to the intersection with the southern property line of C1700017005; thence along said property line to the western right-of-way of South Avenue, thence in a northeasterly direction to the point of intersection of the eastern right-of-way of South Avenue and the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C0170019019; thence in an easterly direction along said property line to the point of intersection with the eastern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C01700019019; thence in a northerly direction along the eastern property lines of Bartow County Tax Parcels C01700019019, C01700019009, C01700019008, C01700019007, C01700019006, C01700019005, C01700019004, C01700019003, C01700019002, C01700019001 to the point of intersection with the southerly right-of-way of West Avenue and Bartow County Tax Parcel C01700019001; thence in a northerly direction to the point of intersection of the northern right-of-way of West Avenue and the eastern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C100023005; thence in a northerly direction along the eastern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C100023005, C100023004, C100023003, C1000023002, C100023001, crossing Skinner Street and continuing on to C100022006, C100022005, C100022004 to the point of intersection of the southern right-of-way of Leak Street and the eastern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C100022004; thence traveling westerly along the southern right-of-way of Leake Street to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way of S. Bartow Street; thence northerly along the western right-of-way of S. Bartow Street approximately 140′ to a point; thence in a westerly direction along the paralleling Leake Street approximately 170′ to the western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003001, thence southerly along said property line to the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003007; thence westerly along the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003006 to the point of intersection of the western property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003003; thence along said property line in a southerly direction to the point of intersection with the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003005; thence westerly along the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C200003005 to the point of intersection of eastern right-of-way of Etowah Drive and the northern property line of Bartow County Tax Parcel C20003005; thence southerly along the eastern right-of-way of Etowah Drive to its point of intersection with the northern right-of-way of Leake Street, said point being the Point of Beginning.
(b)
Designation of contributing and non-contributing and owner list. The following is a list of all properties and property owners of the Olde Towne Historic District and designation of each property as contributing or non-contributing pursuant to the City of Cartersville Historic Preservation Ordinance.
EXPAND
OLDE TOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT
F Name L Name House No St Name Status*
SMITH & SMITH LAND SURVEY 2 SOUTH NC
JEFFERSON DAVIS JR ESTATE 6 SOUTH NC
MAE BOSTON 8 SOUTH C
DIANE S MOONEY 12 SOUTH C
DIANE S MOONEY 16 SOUTH C
CHRISTINE C CLARK 20 SOUTH NC
DIANE S MOONEY 22 SOUTH C
ROY & INEZ BUCKNER 17 SOUTH C
DAVID B PARKER JR 15 SOUTH C
THOMAS H FOWLER JR 7 SOUTH C
B. L. 116 LEAKE NC
MARY LOU GROCE 120 LEAKE C
EDMUND ROSS 122 LEAKE C
ROBERT OWENS 126 LEAKE C
JAMES & ANGELA CRISP 128 LEAKE C
NORTHWEST CONTRACTORS 3 SOUTH AVE. NC
CLARENCE B PERRY 140 LEAKE C
CLARENCE B PERRY 212 S. BARTOW C
FLOYD PROPERTY MGT. 214 S. BARTOW C
REGIONS BANK FSB 200 MAIN NC
MIKE BORKOWSKY 5 SOUTH AVE. NC
JAYCE STEPP 215 LEAKE C
C. A. SHROPSHIRE 211 LEAKE C
GEORGE SHROPSHIRE 209 LEAKE NC
WILLIAM KENT WALKER 222 LEAKE C
GORDON R TIMMS 34 ETOWAH C
JERRY A SIMMONS 40 ETOWAH C
SUSAN FORD 44 ETOWAH C
RICHARD M WHITTLE 48 ETOWAH C
JEFFERSON L DAVIS JR ESTATE 405 WEST NC
JAMES F SEGARS 401 WEST C
JOHN C ADAMS 15 LUCKIE C
EDNA WHITE 11 LUCKIE NC
JOSEPH E. POGUE 9 LUCKIE NC
GLORIA & JERRY CHASE 216 LEAKE C
MALVIN UNDERWOOD 218 LEAKE C
SANDLOT DEVELOPMENT LLC 208 LEAKE C
FRANK RILEY 12 LUCKIE C
STEVE BURKHALTER 16 LUCKIE C
SYDNEY JOLLY 317 WEST C
JEREMY NORTH 315 WEST C
ALISON DILLEN 307 WEST C
KATIE CANTRELL 223 S. BARTOW NC
JAMES WOFFORD III 221 S. BARTOW C
CAROLE B JACKSON 219 S. BARTOW C
LYNN PRITCHETT 217 S. BARTOW C
SUSAN & MICHAEL DEL MONICO 215 S. BARTOW C
GREGORY SMITH 222 S. BARTOW C
DAVID T HULSEY 226 S. BARTOW C
JOHN DAVIDSON 230 S. BARTOW NC
C.M. CANTRELL 223 WEST C
ALAN C BERTHIANUME 219 WEST NC
DEBBIE & DAVID TURNER 215 WEST C
MARY K. & JAMES HITT 211 WEST C
REBECCA B COWAN 209 WEST C
PHILLIP B YOUNG 25 SOUTH C
CLARENCE B PERRY 21 SOUTH NC
T J GREEN JR 208 WEST C
EARLE LEWIS 212 WEST C
JOHN A MORROW 214 WEST C
SADIE BENTON 218 WEST NC
TERRY STRANGE 224 WEST C
SANDRA & CHARLES HARRIS 14 NEAL NC
MAGGIE JOHNSON 20 NEEL NC
VICTORIA & ROBERT VISGER 24 NEEL NC
SHARON WILLINGHAM 26 NEEL NC
BOBBY & JASON BRANHAM 28 NEEL NC
TARA HARPER 22 NEEL NC
CHARLES PARKER 324 WEST C
CARSON MCCRARY 302 WEST C
BARCLAY TERHUNE 304 WEST C
CHARLES PUCKETT JR 306 WEST C
MICHEAL HUDSON 310 WEST C
GALEN McDANIEL 316 WEST C
SHELBY R COX 320 WEST C
CORINNE R CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 102 ETOWAH NC
RUTH S WISEBRAUM 402 WEST C
DORIS TUMLIN 410 WEST NC
BOB DILLEN 129 SOUTH C
BOBBIE SUE JOHNSON 125 SOUTH C
MRS. FRED D NEEL 119 SOUTH AVE C
ELIZABETH A BOLTON 117 SOUTH NC
KATHLEEN P REDDING 115 SOUTH NC
LOUIS TONSMIRE 11 NEEL NC
SECRETARY HUD 103 SOUTH NC
LEILA S. BRYSON 101 SOUTH NC
HARRY B WHITE 105 SOUTH C
JACK JONES 102 SOUTH NC
WOODROW W FREE 104 SOUTH C
VANDI C WHITE 106 SOUTH NC
ROY & PATRICIA RICHARDSON 110 SOUTH C
JOE & EMILY LYNCH 114 SOUTH C
DOUGLAS SCHOMER 116 SOUTH C
MARY B LANCE 120 SOUTH C
BROOKE CHEATHAM 122 SOUTH C
PENNY MCCRARY 126 SOUTH NC
CHASE MANAGEMENT PROPERTIES INC 130 SOUTH NC
402 WEST C
LEONARD E. FAGAN 203 S. BARTOW C
CLARENCE B PERRY 212 S. BARTOW NC
JOHN MORROW 214 S. BARTOW C
SAM SMITH 220 S. BARTOW C
JOHN DAVIDSON 230 S. BARTOW NC
BILLY WATERS 4 NEEL NC
PHIL & EVELYN COCKERILLE 6 NEEL NC
CHARLES W PUCKETT 12 NEEL NC
FRANCES O MCKEMIE 205 WEST NC
NATIONAL PROPERTIES HOLDINGS 206 WEST NC
HENRY C FLOYD 223 WEST C
BARCLAY TERHUNE 304 WEST C
HAGLER PROPERTIES LLC 309 WEST C
CHARLES ROTHSCHILD III 313 WEST C
CLYDE & ELIZABETH SMITH 314 WEST C
CLAUDE MARTIN 321 WEST NC
KENNETH REEVES 323 WEST C
GREG CORDELL 406 WEST C
WARREN POSTON PROPERTIES 130 LEAKE NC
CLARENCE B PERRY 140 LEAKE C
SAM FRANKLIN, SR. 408 WEST NC
  (c)
Overlay map. The zoning map of the City of Cartersville shall be amended to show the Olde Towne Historic District as an overlay on said zoning map and said overlay on said zoning map and said overlay shall be designated as the H-1DBD Historic District.
(d)
Design standards. The following design standards are adopted for the Olde Town Historic District:
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES
CONTRIBUTING TO THE RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC DISTRICTS
INTRODUCTION
The following Residential Design Standards are intended to identify the character-defining features of a site or structure used in determining the compatibility of the proposed alteration, repair, renovation, rehabilitation or restoration of an existing structure or the construction of a new structure regarding the appropriateness of the size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed as contributing to the character of a historic property or structure as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
For items not addressed by the following standards or guidelines, the Commission will refer to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, latest edition, for guidance.
In filing for a Certificate of Preservation all standards shall be complied with and so demonstrated on said application and supporting documentation. Guidelines, as indicated herein, may or may not be demonstrated in the application or supporting documentation for a Certificate of Preservation. Maintenance recommendations, if any, are included for informational purposes only and are not required to be included in an application for a Certificate of Preservation and, as such, shall not be considered by the Commission in reviewing said applications.
Generally:
1.
It is not appropriate to introduce structures or contemporary equipment such as satellite dishes, solar collectors, playground equipment, heating and air units, storage units, and swimming pools, in locations that compromise the historic character of the building or site. Locate such features unobtrusively, and screen them from view.
2.
When planning to alter the topography of a site substantially through grading, filling, or excavation, one shall contact the Cartersville Planning and Development Department to confirm that the proposed changes comply with the city building code and development regulations.
3.
When remodeling historic structures or constructing new structures in historic districts, care shall be taken in retaining and preserving the historic relationship between buildings and related features of the district, to include but not be limited to, site topography, retaining walls, foundation plantings, hedges, walkways, driveways, parking lots, trees, gardens, yards, arbors, ground cover, fences, accessory buildings, patios, terraces, and significant vistas and views.
PART ONE—MAINTAINING, REPAIRING, AND REPLACING EXISTING STRUCTURES
A.
Wood:
1.
Repair historic wooden features using the recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
2.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of a wooden feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
3.
If replacement of an entire wooden feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, and texture. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
4.
If a wooden feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, material, and texture with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not clean wooden features and surfaces with destructive methods such as sandblasting, power washing, and using propane or butane torches. Clean using gentle methods such as low-pressure washing with detergents and natural bristle brushes. Chemical strippers can be used only if gentler methods are ineffective.
6.
One shall not strip historically painted surfaces down to bare wood and apply clean stains or finishes to create a natural wood appearance.
7.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
8.
One shall not replace or cover wooden siding, trim, or window sashes with contemporary substitute materials such as aluminum, masonite or vinyl without approval from the Commission. However, in order to maintain continuity, material for additions, as well as out buildings, shall closely match the house.
9.
One shall not introduce wooden features or details to a historic building to create a false historic appearance.
10.
Preserve wooden features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and site, including such functional and decorative elements as siding, shingles, cornices, architrave, brackets, pediments, columns, balustrades, and architectural trim.
11.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed.
a.
When retaining and cleaning painted surfaces, it is required that the gentlest means possible be used. It is further required that historic structures be painted only when the paint film is damaged or deteriorated.
b.
Protect and maintain wooden surfaces and features through appropriate methods. Inspect for and repair signs of moisture damage, mildew, and fungal or insect infestation. Keep wooden joints properly sealed or caulked to prevent moisture infiltration.
c.
Treat traditionally unpainted, exposed wooden features with chemical preservatives to prevent or slow their decay and deterioration.
d.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint, to prevent damage from ultraviolet light and moisture.
B.
Masonry:
1.
Retain and preserve masonry features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including walls, foundations, roofing materials, chimneys, cornices, quoins, steps, buttresses, piers, columns, lintels, arches, and sills.
2.
Protect and maintain historic masonry materials, such as brick, terra cotta, limestone, granite, stucco, slate, concrete, cement block, and clay tile, and their constructive features, including bond patterns, corbels, water tables, and unpainted surfaces.
3.
Repair historic masonry surfaces and features using recognized preservation methods for piecing-in, consolidating, patching damaged or deteriorated masonry. One shall not apply a waterproof coating to exposed masonry.
4.
Repoint masonry mortar joints if the mortar is cracked, crumbling, or missing or if damp walls or damaged plaster indicate moisture penetration.
5.
Before repointing, carefully remove deteriorated mortar using hand tools. Replace the mortar with new mortar that duplicates the original in strength, texture, and composition. Match the original mortar joints in width and profile.
6.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail, module, or element of a masonry feature or surface is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire surface or feature. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
7.
If replacement of a large masonry surface or entire feature is necessary, replace it in kind, with matching, substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
8.
If a masonry feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible with the scale, size, and material of the historic building and district.
9.
One shall not paint, coat, or waterproof unpainted masonry surfaces. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
10.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Inspect surfaces and features for signs of moisture damage, vegetation, structural cracks or settlement, deteriorated mortar, and loose or missing masonry units.
b.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces, collecting on decorative elements or along foundations and piers, and rising through capillary action.
c.
Clean masonry only when necessary to remove heavy soiling or prevent deterioration. Use the gentlest means possible.
d.
Repaint painted masonry surfaces when needed.
e.
Test any cleaning technique, including chemical solutions, on an inconspicuous sample area well in advance of the proposed cleaning to evaluate its effects. One shall not clean masonry features and surfaces with destructive methods, including sandblasting, high-pressure water blasting, and power washing.
C.
Architectural metals:
1.
Retain and preserve architectural metal features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including such functional and decorative elements as roofing, flashing, cornices, railings, hardware, casement windows, and fences.
2.
Retain and preserve architectural metals, such as copper, tin, brass, cast iron, wrought iron, lead, and terneplate, which contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
3.
If replacement of deteriorated detail or element of an architectural metal feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire architectural feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original feature in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If an architectural metal feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original design or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material with the historic building and district.
6.
Repair deteriorating architectural metal features and surfaces using recognized preservation methods for splicing, patching, and reinforcing.
7.
One shall not introduce architectural metal features or details to a historic building in an attempt to create a false historical appearance.
8.
One shall not patch metal roofs or flashing with tar or asphalt products.
9.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain architectural metal surfaces and features through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of moisture damage, corrosion, structural failure or fatigue, galvanic action, and paint film failure.
2.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces and collecting on decorative elements.
3.
Clear metal roofs and gutters of leaves and debris.
b.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint and lacquers, to prevent corrosion.
c.
Clean when necessary to remove corrosion or to prepare for recoating. Use the gentlest effective method.
d.
Repaint promptly when paint film deteriorates.
e.
Clean soft metals, including lead, tin, terneplate, and copper, with chemical solutions after pretesting them to ensure that they do not damage the metal surface. It is not appropriate to clean soft metal surfaces with destructive methods like grit blasting.
f.
Clean hard metals such as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel using the gentlest means possible. Consider low-pressure glass bead blasting only if hand scraping and wire brushing have been ineffective.
D.
Paint:
1.
Preserve and protect original exterior building surfaces and site features that were painted by maintaining a sound paint film on them.
2.
One shall not paint brick, stone, copper, bronze, concrete, or cement block surfaces that were historically unpainted. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
3.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
4.
One shall not remove paint films through destructive methods such as sandblasting, water blasting, power washing, or the use of propane or butane torches.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain previously painted exterior surfaces in appropriate ways:
1.
Inspect painted surfaces for signs of discoloration, moisture damage, mildew, and dirt buildup.
2.
Clean painted surfaces to avoid unnecessary repainting. Use the gentlest means possible.
3.
Remove deteriorated and peeling paint films to the first sound paint layer before repainting. Use the gentlest means possible, such as hand scraping and hand sanding. Use electric heat guns and plates with caution and only if gentler methods are ineffective.
4.
Ensure that surfaces to be repainted are clean and dry, and that any exposed wood or metal surface has been primed so that new paint will bond properly.
b.
Repaint previously painted surfaces with compatible paint.
E.
Roofs:
1.
Retain and preserve roofs and roof forms that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as roofing materials, cresting, dormers, chimneys, cupolas, and cornices, unless approved by the Commission.
2.
If replacement of a partially deteriorated roof feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind to match the original feature in design, dimension, detail, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
3.
If full replacement of a deteriorated historic roofing material or feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in scale, detail, pattern, design, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If a roof feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material, with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not remove a roof feature that is important in defining the overall historic character of a building rather than repair and replace it.
6.
If new gutters and downspouts are needed, install them so that no architectural features are lost or damaged. Retain the shape of traditional half-round gutters and downspouts if replacing them.
7.
One shall not replace concealed, built-in gutter systems with exposed gutters.
8.
One shall not introduce new roof features such as skylights, dormers, or vents if they will compromise the historic roof design, or damage character-defining roof materials or the character of the historic district.
9.
One shall not install ventilators, solar collectors, antenna, skylights, or mechanical equipment in locations that compromise character defining roofs or on roof slopes prominently visible from the street.
10.
One shall not install exposed tarpaper rolls as a finished roofing material or roofing tar as a replacement for valley flashing.
11.
One shall not patch any roofing or flashing with tar or asphalt product.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the metal, wooden, and masonry elements of historic roofs through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of deterioration and moisture penetration.
2.
Clean gutters and downspouts to ensure proper drainage.
3.
Replace deteriorated flashing as necessary.
4.
Reapply appropriate protective coats to metal roofs as necessary.
5.
Maintain adequate ventilation of roof sheathing to prevent moisture damage.
6.
Ensure that roofing materials are adequately anchored to resist wind and water.
7.
Re-fasten loose (or replace damaged) shingles, slates, or tiles.
b.
Repair historic roofs and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for resetting or reinforcing.
F.
Exterior walls:
1.
Retain and preserve exterior walls that contribute to the overall historic form and character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as cornices, foundations, bays, quoins, arches, water tables, brackets, and entablatures.
2.
Retain and preserve exterior wall materials that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including brickwork, stucco, stone, wooden shingles, wooden siding, asbestos siding, and metal, wooden, or masonry trim work.
3.
Repair exterior wall surfaces, details, and features using recognized preservation repair methods for the surface material or coating.
4.
If the replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an exterior wall is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, pattern, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If replacement of an entire exterior wall or feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
6.
If an exterior wall or feature is completely missing, replace it with a new wall or feature based on accurate documentation of the original or new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
7.
One shall not introduce new features such as window or door openings, bays, vents, balconies, or chimneys to character-defining exterior walls if this will compromise the architectural integrity of the building.
8.
One shall not remove or cover any material detail associated with exterior walls, including decorative shingles, panels, brackets, bargeboards, and corner boards unless supported by historic documentation.
9.
One shall not cover historic wall material, including wooden siding, wooden shingles, stucco, brick, and stonework, with coatings or contemporary substitute materials.
10.
It is not appropriate to introduce features or details to an exterior wall that would create a false historical appearance.
G.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking should be gravel, brick, concrete, or paved with appropriate textured asphalt.
b.
Care should be taken not to injure nearby trees by intruding on the root areas.
c.
Design new driveways, walkways to be compatible in location, spacing, configuration, and dimension with existing walkways and driveways that contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
d.
One shall not locate new parking areas where they are visible from the street, or to significantly alter the proportion of built area to yard area.
e.
One shall not locate parking where it will obstruct the principal structure.
H.
Lighting:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Lighting of walkways, driveways and off-street parking shall retain and preserve mechanically sound exterior fixtures that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, site or streetscape.
b.
If replacing missing or deteriorated historical exterior fixtures, replace with fixtures that are similar in appearance, scale, and material to the original.
c.
The introduction of indiscriminate permanent area lighting, illuminating facades of houses with harsh floodlight, or creating a runway effect with multiple footlights along front walks is not allowed unless approved by the Commission.
I.
Windows and doors:
1.
Retain and preserve windows that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, sash, muntins, sills, heads, moldings, surrounds, hardware, shutters, and blinds.
2.
Retain and preserve doors that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, glazing, panels, sidelights, fanlights, surrounds, thresholds, and hardware.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door feature or detail is necessary, replace only the deteriorated feature in kind rather than the entire unit. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door unit is necessary, replace the unit in kind, matching the design and dimension of the original sash or panels, pane configuration, architectural trim, detailing, and materials. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a window or a door is completely missing, replace it with a new unit based on accurate documentation of the original or a new design compatible with the original opening and the historic character of the building.
6.
Replace deteriorated or missing wooden shutters with historically appropriate wooden shutters sized to fit the opening. Do not introduce shutters on a historic building if no evidence of earlier shutters exists.
7.
If additional windows and doors are necessary for a new use, install them on a rear or non-character-defining facade of the building, but only if they do not compromise the architectural integrity of the building. Design such units to be compatible with the overall design of the building, but not to duplicate the original.
8.
One shall not remove original doors, windows, shutters, hardware, and without approval from the Commission.
9.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with windows and doors, such as stained glass, beveled glass, textured glass, or tracery, unless supported by historic documentation.
10.
One shall not use snap-in muntins to create false divided-light appearance.
11.
One shall not replace clear glazing with tinted or opaque glazing.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the wood and metal elements of historic windows and doors through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect regularly for deterioration, moisture damage, air infiltration, paint failure, and corrosion.
2.
Clean the surface using the gentlest means possible.
3.
Limit paint removal and reapply protective coatings as necessary.
4.
Reglaze sash as necessary to prevent moisture infiltration.
5.
Weather-strip windows and doors to reduce air infiltration and increase energy efficiency.
b.
Repair historic windows and doors and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
c.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with the existing meeting rail.
d.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door and frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors are not appropriate.
e.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
J.
Entrances, porches, and balconies:
1.
Retain and preserve entrances, porches, and balconies that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including such functional and decorative elements as columns, pilasters, piers, entablatures, balustrades, sidelights, fanlights, transoms, steps, railings, floors, and ceilings.
2.
When repairing historic entrances, porches, balconies and their distinctive features and materials, use recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a feature or an entire entrance, porch or balcony is missing, replace it with a feature based on accurate historic documentation or a new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
6.
One shall not enclose a front porch or balcony without approval from the Commission.
7.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with entrances and porches, such as graining, spindle-work, beveled glass, or beaded board, unless supported by historic documentation.
8.
One shall not remove an original entrance or porch or add a new entrance or porch on a primary facade.
9.
One shall not introduce features or details to a historic entrance, porch or balcony that would create a false historical appearance.
K.
Utilities and energy retrofit:
1.
If a new mechanical system is needed, install it so that it causes the least amount of alteration to the building's exterior facades, historic building fabric, and site features.
2.
Increase the thermal efficiency of historic buildings by observing appropriate traditional practices, such as weather stripping and caulking, and by introducing energy-efficient features, such as awnings, operable shutters, and storm windows and doors, where appropriate.
3.
Retain and preserve the inherent energy-conserving features of historic buildings and their sites, including shade trees, porches, awnings, and operable windows, transoms, shutters, and blinds.
4.
Locate portable window air-conditioning units on rear facades or inconspicuous side facades.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with existing meeting rails.
b.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door or frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finished that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors and storm windows are not appropriate.
c.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
d.
In general, the introduction of underground utility lines to reduce the intrusion of additional overhead lines and poles is encouraged. However, in trenching, take care to avoid archaeological resources and the roots of trees.
L.
Accessibility, health, and safety considerations:
1.
In considering changes to a historic building, review accessibility and life safety code implications to determine if the proposed change is compatible with the building's historic character and setting or will compromise them.
2.
Meet accessibility and life-safety building code requirements in such a way that the historic building's character-defining facades, features, and finishes are preserved.
3.
Determine appropriate solutions to accessibility with input from the Commission, historic preservation specialists and local disability groups.
4.
Introduce new or additional means of access that are reversible and that do not compromise the original design of a historic entrance or porch.
5.
Work with code officials to explore alternative methods of equal or superior effectiveness in meeting safety code requirements while preserving significant historic features.
6.
Locate fire doors, exterior fire stairs, or elevator additions on side or rear facades. Design such elements to be compatible in character, materials, scale, proportion, and finish with the historic building.
M.
Aesthetic recommendations:
1.
Survey in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
2.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip lines of trees.
3.
Limit the size and scale of an addition in relationship to the historic building so that it does not diminish or visually overpower the building.
PART TWO—ADDITIONS AND NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
A.
Additions to historic buildings:
1.
Design an addition to be compatible with the historic building in mass, materials, and relationship of solids to windows and doors in the exterior walls, yet make the addition discernible from the original.
2.
One shall not construct an addition if it will detract from the overall historic character of the principal building and the site, or if it will require the removal of a significant building element or site feature.
3.
One shall not construct an addition that significantly changes the proportion of built mass to open space on the individual site.
4.
Construct new additions so that there is the least possible loss of historic fabric and so that the character-defining features of the historic building are not destroyed, damaged, or obscured.
5.
Design new additions so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and view are retained.
6.
Locate a new addition on an inconspicuous elevation of the historic building, usually the rear one.
B.
New building construction:
1.
New site construction shall be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of orientation, and distance from adjacent buildings.
2.
Design new construction so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and views are retained.
3.
Evaluate in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
4.
Design new buildings to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of height, form, size, scale, massing, proportion, and roof shape.
5.
Design the proportion of the proposed new building's front facade to be compatible with the front facade proportion of surrounding buildings.
6.
Design the spacing, placement, scale, orientation, proportion, and size of window and door openings in proposed new construction to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
7.
Select windows and doors for proposed new building that are compatible in material, subdivision, proportion, pattern, and detail with the windows and the doors of surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
8.
Select materials and finishes for proposed new buildings that are compatible with historic materials and finishes found in surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district in terms of composition, scale, module, pattern, detail, texture, finish and sheen.
9.
Design new buildings so that they are compatible with, but discernible from, historic buildings in the district.
Recommendations:
1.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip line of trees.
PART THREE—RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
1.
Before moving a historic structure, document its original setting and context. Use photographs, site plans, or other graphic or written statements to record existing site conditions.
2.
Enlist contractors experienced in moving historic buildings to do the following:
a.
Determine the structural condition of the property before the move.
b.
Coordinate the move with the utility companies and appropriate city departments.
c.
Protect the structure from vandalism or weather damage before, during and after the move.
d.
Minimize structural damage during the move.
3.
Relocate a structure within the historic district only if it is determined to be architecturally compatible with the adjacent buildings according to the guidelines for new construction.
4.
Relocate a structure on a site within a historic district according to new construction guidelines for siting, orientation, plantings, and other pertinent aspects of site and setting.
5.
Ensure that the relocation of a structure will not diminish or damage existing historic district buildings or the overall character of the district. Pay particular attention to the tree canopy along the route of the move.
6.
Provide the HPC with site plan information for the proposed site features and plantings of the new setting, including information on accessory buildings, driveways, site lighting, and parking areas.
7.
If the original site of the structure to be relocated is within a historic district, before the move, submit to the Commission a site plan for proposed site features and plantings of the original site after the relocation.
8.
Protect significant site features of the original site, the new site, and the route of the move during relocation.
PART FOUR—DEMOLITION
1.
Before demolition, submit a site plan to the Commission illustrating proposed site development or plantings to follow demolition.
2.
During demolition, ensure the safety of any adjacent properties and historic resources. Also, during and after demolition, protect the trees on the site from damage due to compaction of the soil by equipment or materials.
3.
After demolition, clear the site promptly and thoroughly.
4.
After demolition, plant or develop the site promptly as approved in the proposed site plan.
(e)
Effective date. This district shall become effective on April 1, 2004.
(Ord. No. 04-04, § 2, 2-5-04; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08; Ord. No. 04-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-54. - West End Historic District.
The City Council of the City of Cartersville adopts the West End Historic District as indicated herein.
(a)
Boundaries. The boundaries of the West End Historic District as indicated herein.
The West End District encompasses an area commencing with the property at the NW corner of the intersection of West Main Street and Bartow Street. The district continues SW on Etowah Drive to the intersection with Lee Street then west to include the properties on the north side on Lee Street (approximately eight (8) properties). The boundary then extends west to the intersection of Woodland Drive and Terrell Drive (includes the properties on the south side of West Avenue (SR 61/113). The district turns north and west for approximately four (4) properties to West Avenue (Highway 113). The district boundary turns west onto West Avenue (SR 61/113) past Attaway Drive. The boundary to Elm Street then east to Knight Way and Knight Street the intersection with Lee Street. The boundary extends north on Lee Street to West Cherokee Avenue. The boundary extends east on West Cherokee Avenue to School Street then south on School Street to Tabernacle Street. The boundary then follows east on Tabernacle Street to Bartow Street then south on Bartow Street to the intersection with West Main Street.
(b)
Designation of contributing and non-contributing and owner list. The following is a list of all properties and property owners of the West End Historic District and designation of each property as contributing or noncontributing pursuant to the City of Cartersville Historic Preservation Ordinance.
EXPAND
F Name L Name House
No. Prefix St. Name Type City State ZIP Status
D. ARNOLD TILLMAN, JR. 2 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
D. ARNOLD TILLMAN, JR. 4 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DAVEID ALLEN & MARTHA WILBERT 13 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
RANDALL H DAVEIS 16 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
SHARON K MASON 17 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DENNIS & ELIZABETH WOMACK 19 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MRS. J. W. GILREATH 23 ATTAWAY DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARION L WILLS 20 CEDAR LN CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
EXENE D BLACKSTOCK 22 CEDAR LN CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LAWRENCE S PRITCHARD 24 CEDAR LN CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARGARET F BRIDGES 26 CEDAR LN CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
BETH M STEIN 30 CEDAR LN CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
BARTOW COUNTY 320 W CHEROKEE AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 324 W CHEROKEE AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 326 W CHEROKEE AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
BOYS SCOUTS OF AMERICA 328 W CHEROKEE AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ROWAN GILREATH 1 ELM ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CHARLOTTE HOWELL 3 ELM ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARKER H E 23 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JOHN W WADE JR 27 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
BEVERLY AMELL 31 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
HAGLER PROPERTIES LLC 35 ETOWAH DR ACWORTH GA 30120 C
TERRY W PELFREY 37 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
FREDRICK K SIMON 41 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
WARREN ALLEN FLOWER III 107 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
WILLIAM J CLINE 117 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
SIM L & BETTY W ARCHER 121 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MILDRED GILBERT PRITCHETT 125 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
THOMAS D. RYAN 127 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
RHONDA LYNN COTHRAN YOUNGBLOOD 129 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JEREMY ROBERSON 129 A ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JEREMY ROBERSON 129 B ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JEREMY ROBERSON 131 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JEREMY ROBERSON 131 A ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JERMEY ROBERSON 131 B ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
T P STRICKLAND 133 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
SHERYL L PEALOR 135 ETOWAH DR CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MNB & ASSOCIATES LLC 101 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MNB & ASSOCIATES LLC 102 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARY B CANTY 104 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
SUSIE W. WHEELER 105 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARY B CANTY 106 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DEREK MORGAN 108 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DEREK MORGAN 110 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DEREK MORGAN 112 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LAR PROPERTIES 204 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JEFF BORKOWSKY 210 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DELORES A CHAMPION 212 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 213 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CHRISTINE DAVEIS 214 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARY ANN MIZE 215 FITE ST WHITE GA 30184 C
KATHLEEN P MULKEY 216 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ROBERT JAMISON 220 FITE ST VILLA RICA GA 30180 NC
HENRY J RHODES 221 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JULIA ANN ROBERTS 222 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JULIA ANN ROBERTS 226 A FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JULIA ANN ROBERTS 226 B FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
HENRY J RHODES 227 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TED H WADE 231 FITE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120
CAMILLA HERRING EDWARDS 5 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TYDIFFY LCC 7 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
TYDIFFY LLC 9 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
TYDIFFY LLC 10 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
TYDIFFY LLC 12 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
JOE S WILKINS 13 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JOHN PRICE 15 HERRING ST LIZELLA GA 31052 NC
TYDIFFY LLC 16 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
FLOYD CALLAHAN 17 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
TYDIFFY LLC 18 HERRING ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
GWENDOLYN HUDSON 19 HERRING ST COLUMBUS GA 31907 NC
LOIS KING 21 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DEBBIE J & DENNIS COX 25 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
EULES J GRIFFIN 26 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
ANNIE LOU WILSON 27 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CHARLIE GAMBLE 29 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DOUGLAS P PEDRICK 31 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LONA BEATRICE HEYWARD 33 HERRING ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
HENRYKA J DRAHA 1 KNIGHT ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 2 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
FREDDIE MAE ANDREWS PATTERSON 104 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
SHIRLEY ANN T SHAW 108 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
COLEMAN & MARY GARNIGAN 117 LEE ST DECATUR GA 30032 C
CLARA ARNOLD 119 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
RONALD & ELMIRA GAMBLE 128 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
VANGEL CHERISE DODSON 132 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JULIUS S SLOAN 134 LEE ST ATLANTA GA 30317 C
DONALD EVANS, C JR. 140 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DON HARRIS 207 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARGIE E LOCHRIDGE 210 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
ELEANOR S MARTIN 211 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LINDA MCBEE JO 220 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CHRIS D MULLINAX 222 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
TAMARA S DEEMS 226 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DJA PROPERTIES 230 A LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DJA PROPERTIES 230 C LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DJA PROPERTIES 230 D LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DJA PROPERTIES 230 B LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JOHN S LEWIS 234 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
HERSCHEL L WEAVER 238 LEE ST ACWORTH GA 30101 C
JULIA K MAY 240 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
KATHY ALEXANDER 242 LEE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
RANDOLHP SCOTT PROPERTIES 201 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
RANDOLHP SCOTT PROPERTIES 207 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
WILLIAM F KELLEY 210 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARGARET KNIGHT 213 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TRACY BENNETT 214 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JOEL M ADAMS 216 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CHARLES RAY THACKER 302 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
SUSAN ALEXANDER 303 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
HARRIS G COPE 305 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
STEVEN DOBSON 306 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
WAYNE BAKER 307 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARGARET K. KENNEDY 310 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JEREMY NORTH 311 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
P E & CONCETTA BOSTICK 314 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MNB & ASSOCIATES LLC 315 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
WAYNE BAKER 317 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DEWEY BRYSON 318 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JAMES B TATE 402 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CHARLES H GREENWAY, JR 403 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
LINDA G MILLER 407 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JACK FOURNIER 408 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MOLLY B MENDENHALL 411 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ELIZABETH A WARD 414 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
THOMAS ALLEN MORDER 416 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
LOUISE D LEACH 420 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARCIA B TRUST PIKE 426 W MAIN ST ACWORTH GA 30102 C
CARTERSVILLE BUILDING AUTHORITY 429 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JAMES L. TATUM 430 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
EVELYN CORS NEAL 434 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 435 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30102 NC
JOHN S LEWIS 438 W MAIN ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CHARLES CROWE 2 OAKLAND ST LILBURN GA 30047 NC
SCOTT T & LISA L HAMILTON 3 OAKLAND ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MIKE BICKLEY 7 OAKLAND ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JACK H & FRANCES J RAY 8 OAKLAND ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
HAL J CHOATE JR 12 OAKLAND ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MYRTLE SCOTT PRITCHARD 3 POPLAR ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
ELLEN S LIPHAM 4 POPLAR ST CARROLLTON GA 30117 NC
RUSSELL T SHAVER 8 POPLAR ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
SCOTT T & LISA L HAMILTON 17 POPLAR ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MOLLY B MENDENHALL 26 SCHOOL ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARY KNOX SLACK 2 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CHARLES R THACKER 7 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
SAMUEL A. MORRIS 10 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MNB & ASSOCIATES 18 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JULIE ROBERTS 22 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
CHARLES R JONES 108 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LARRY P JACKSON 110 TABERNACLE ST ATLANTA GA 30342 C
RAYE ANN BERNARD 114 TABERNACLE ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ROBERT WILLIAMS 3 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
EDDIE & EMMA V TEMPLETON 4 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JOE C MCKENZIE 5 WALKER ST EL CERRITO CA 94530 C
ALFRED MCKENIZIE 5.5 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
LINDSEY MCDANIEL 6 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TYDIFFY LCC 8 WALKER ST RYDAL GA 30171 NC
DENISE A ROBINSON MOSLEY 9 WALKER ST BUFORD GA 30519 NC
TYDIFFY LCC 10 WALKER ST RYDAL GA 30171 C
DONALD WESLEY BROWN 11 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DANNY GILREATH 12 WALKER ST RYDAL GA 30171 NC
GEORGE S JONES 15 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
SOLOMA M ROBERSON 16 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
KEITH & KEVIN JONES 20 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
EMOGENE C JOHNSON 24 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
STEVEN S SANDELL 26 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30121 C
EDITH A SHAW 27 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
QUEEN ESTER WARD 28 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
ED KINCAID 29 WALKER ST ACWORTH GA 30102 NC
JIMMY L BROWN 32 WALKER ST POWDER SPRINGS GA 30127 NC
ANNIE C CALLAHAN 33 WALKER ST ACWORTH GA 30101 NC
COLEMAN GARNIGAN 34 WALKER ST DECATUR GA 30032 NC
DONALD L GARNIGAN 36 WALKER ST CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TYDIFFY LCC 37 WALKER ST RYDAL GA 30171 NC
ANNIE C CALLAHAN 38 WALKER ST ACWORTH GA 30101 NC
TYDIFFY LCC 41 WALKER ST RYDAL GA 30171 NC
LORI CAGLE 501 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
WILLIAM A SHAW 503 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
CITY OF CARTERSVILLE 504 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARY WHITTEN BEARD 507 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ALICE L FIELD 512 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JERRY A & LOLA F THOMAS 601 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
EDWARD A KINSEL 602 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ROY KYLE RUSSELL, JR. 603 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
LUKE LESTER 605 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30121 NC
JOEL MCCORMICK 609 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TINSLEY C. CLINE 610 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
NEAL & LINDA W BRUNT 611 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TINSLEY C. CLINE 612 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARY E TOWNSEND SHAW 615 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JUDITH BROWN 616 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ALICE C MARLER 617 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
PHILIP D BRIDGES 620 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARY ELIZA TOWNSEND SHAW 621 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
LARRY P JACKSON 623 WEST AVE ATLANTA GA 30342 C
ANSLEY H CHOATE 625 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
WALTER H SAGER 630 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
HAROLD J CHOATE III 633 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
LOUISE E MILAM 635 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
THOMAS M FEDERICO 639 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
GEORGE F & LENA PERKINS 640 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DONALD C EVANS JR 703 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
DANEISE H ARCHER 704 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
ELIZABETH HARRIS 712 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARY ELIZA SHAW 715 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JANE TAFF CHAPMAN 716 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
MARGARETTA L SHAW 721 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
MARTHA C CHOATE 722 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
EVELYN C SHROPSHIRE 728 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
TERRI LYNN TATUM SHAW 735 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
GAY P DELLINGER 745 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
RALPH D & CHARLOTEE H RUFF 746 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
DONNA S & THOMAS HOUGH 749 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
ROXANA I PIO 752 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
NANCY K MCDONALD 757 WEST AVE ACWORTH GA 30101 C
LUCELEN J COWAN 759 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
JAMES P & PAMELA M BLALOCK 761 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
JOYCE B WHITE 762 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 C
FRANCES W HAIGLER 766 WEST AVE CARTERSVILLE GA 30120 NC
  (c)
Overlay map. The zoning map of the City of Cartersville shall be amended to show the West End Historic District as an overlay on said zoning map and said overlay on said zoning map and said overlay shall be designated as the H-1WE Historic District.
(d)
Design standards. The following design standards are adopted for the West End Historic District:
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES
CONTRIBUTING TO THE RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC DISTRICTS
INTRODUCTION
The following Residential Design Standards are intended to identify the character-defining features of a site or structure used in determining the compatibility of the proposed alteration, repair, renovation, rehabilitation or restoration of an existing structure or the construction of a new structure regarding the appropriateness of the size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed as contributing to the character of a historic property or structure as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
For items not addressed by the following standards or guidelines, the Commission will refer to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, latest edition, for guidance.
In filing for a Certificate of Preservation all standards shall be complied with and so demonstrated on said application and supporting documentation. Guidelines, as indicated herein, may or may not be demonstrated in the application or supporting documentation for a Certificate of Preservation. Maintenance recommendations, if any, are included for informational purposes only and are not required to be included in an application for a Certificate of Preservation and, as such, shall not be considered by the Commission in reviewing said applications.
Generally:
1.
It is not appropriate to introduce structures or contemporary equipment such as satellite dishes, solar collectors, playground equipment, heating and air units, storage units, and swimming pools, in locations that compromise the historic character of the building or site. Locate such features unobtrusively, and screen them from view.
2.
When planning to alter the topography of a site substantially through grading, filling, or excavation, one shall contact the Cartersville Planning and Development Department to confirm that the proposed changes comply with the city building code and development regulations.
3.
When remodeling historic structures or constructing new structures in historic districts, care shall be taken in retaining and preserving the historic relationship between buildings and related features of the district, to include but not be limited to, site topography, retaining walls, foundation plantings, hedges, walkways, driveways, parking lots, trees, gardens, yards, arbors, ground cover, fences, accessory buildings, patios, terraces, and significant vistas and views.
PART ONE—MAINTAINING, REPAIRING, AND REPLACING EXISTING STRUCTURES
A.
Wood:
1.
Repair historic wooden features using the recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
2.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of a wooden feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
3.
If replacement of an entire wooden feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, and texture. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
4.
If a wooden feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, material, and texture with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not clean wooden features and surfaces with destructive methods such as sandblasting, power washing, and using propane or butane torches. Clean using gentle methods such as low-pressure washing with detergents and natural bristle brushes. Chemical strippers can be used only if gentler methods are ineffective.
6.
One shall not strip historically painted surfaces down to bare wood and apply clean stains or finishes to create a natural wood appearance.
7.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
8.
One shall not replace or cover wooden siding, trim, or window sashes with contemporary substitute materials such as aluminum, masonite or vinyl without approval from the Commission. However, in order to maintain continuity, material for additions, as well as out buildings, shall closely match the house.
9.
One shall not introduce wooden features or details to a historic building to create a false historic appearance.
10.
Preserve wooden features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and site, including such functional and decorative elements as siding, shingles, cornices, architrave, brackets, pediments, columns, balustrades, and architectural trim.
11.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed.
a.
When retaining and cleaning painted surfaces, it is required that the gentlest means possible be used. It is further required that historic structures be painted only when the paint film is damaged or deteriorated.
b.
Protect and maintain wooden surfaces and features through appropriate methods. Inspect for and repair signs of moisture damage, mildew, and fungal or insect infestation. Keep wooden joints properly sealed or caulked to prevent moisture infiltration.
c.
Treat traditionally unpainted, exposed wooden features with chemical preservatives to prevent or slow their decay and deterioration.
d.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint, to prevent damage from ultraviolet light and moisture.
B.
Masonry:
1.
Retain and preserve masonry features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including walls, foundations, roofing materials, chimneys, cornices, quoins, steps, buttresses, piers, columns, lintels, arches, and sills.
2.
Protect and maintain historic masonry materials, such as brick, terra cotta, limestone, granite, stucco, slate, concrete, cement block, and clay tile, and their constructive features, including bond patterns, corbels, water tables, and unpainted surfaces.
3.
Repair historic masonry surfaces and features using recognized preservation methods for piecing-in, consolidating, patching damaged or deteriorated masonry. One shall not apply a waterproof coating to exposed masonry.
4.
Repoint masonry mortar joints if the mortar is cracked, crumbling, or missing or if damp walls or damaged plaster indicate moisture penetration.
5.
Before repointing, carefully remove deteriorated mortar using hand tools. Replace the mortar with new mortar that duplicates the original in strength, texture, and composition. Match the original mortar joints in width and profile.
6.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail, module, or element of a masonry feature or surface is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire surface or feature. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
7.
If replacement of a large masonry surface or entire feature is necessary, replace it in kind, with matching, substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
8.
If a masonry feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible with the scale, size, and material of the historic building and district.
9.
One shall not paint, coat, or waterproof unpainted masonry surfaces. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
10.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Inspect surfaces and features for signs of moisture damage, vegetation, structural cracks or settlement, deteriorated mortar, and loose or missing masonry units.
b.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces, collecting on decorative elements or along foundations and piers, and rising through capillary action.
c.
Clean masonry only when necessary to remove heavy soiling or prevent deterioration. Use the gentlest means possible.
d.
Repaint painted masonry surfaces when needed.
e.
Test any cleaning technique, including chemical solutions, on an inconspicuous sample area well in advance of the proposed cleaning to evaluate its effects. One shall not clean masonry features and surfaces with destructive methods, including sandblasting, high-pressure water blasting, and power washing.
C.
Architectural metals:
1.
Retain and preserve architectural metal features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including such functional and decorative elements as roofing, flashing, cornices, railings, hardware, casement windows, and fences.
2.
Retain and preserve architectural metals, such as copper, tin, brass, cast iron, wrought iron, lead, and terneplate, which contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
3.
If replacement of deteriorated detail or element of an architectural metal feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible
4.
If replacement of an entire architectural feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original feature in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible
5.
If an architectural metal feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original design or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material with the historic building and district.
6.
Repair deteriorating architectural metal features and surfaces using recognized preservation methods for splicing, patching, and reinforcing.
7.
One shall not introduce architectural metal features or details to a historic building in an attempt to create a false historical appearance.
8.
One shall not patch metal roofs or flashing with tar or asphalt products.
9.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain architectural metal surfaces and features through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of moisture damage, corrosion, structural failure or fatigue, galvanic action, and paint film failure.
2.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces and collecting on decorative elements.
3.
Clear metal roofs and gutters of leaves and debris.
b.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint and lacquers, to prevent corrosion.
c.
Clean when necessary to remove corrosion or to prepare for recoating. Use the gentlest effective method.
d.
Repaint promptly when paint film deteriorates.
e.
Clean soft metals, including lead, tin, terneplate, and copper, with chemical solutions after pretesting them to ensure that they do not damage the metal surface. It is not appropriate to clean soft metal surfaces with destructive methods like grit blasting.
f.
Clean hard metals such as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel using the gentlest means possible. Consider low-pressure glass bead blasting only if hand scraping and wire brushing have been ineffective.
D.
Paint:
1.
Preserve and protect original exterior building surfaces and site features that were painted by maintaining a sound paint film on them.
2.
One shall not paint brick, stone, copper, bronze, concrete, or cement block surfaces that were historically unpainted. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
3.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
4.
One shall not remove paint films through destructive methods such as sandblasting, water blasting, power washing, or the use of propane or butane torches.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain previously painted exterior surfaces in appropriate ways:
1.
Inspect painted surfaces for signs of discoloration, moisture damage, mildew, and dirt buildup.
2.
Clean painted surfaces to avoid unnecessary repainting. Use the gentlest means possible.
3.
Remove deteriorated and peeling paint films to the first sound paint layer before repainting. Use the gentlest means possible, such as hand scraping and hand sanding. Use electric heat guns and plates with caution and only if gentler methods are ineffective.
4.
Ensure that surfaces to be repainted are clean and dry, and that any exposed wood or metal surface has been primed so that new paint will bond properly.
b.
Repaint previously painted surfaces with compatible paint.
E.
Roofs:
1.
Retain and preserve roofs and roof forms that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as roofing materials, cresting, dormers, chimneys, cupolas, and cornices, unless approved by the Commission.
2.
If replacement of a partially deteriorated roof feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind to match the original feature in design, dimension, detail, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
3.
If full replacement of a deteriorated historic roofing material or feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in scale, detail, pattern, design, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If a roof feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material, with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not remove a roof feature that is important in defining the overall historic character of a building rather than repair and replace it.
6.
If new gutters and downspouts are needed, install them so that no architectural features are lost or damaged. Retain the shape of traditional half-round gutters and downspouts if replacing them.
7.
One shall not replace concealed, built-in gutter systems with exposed gutters.
8.
One shall not introduce new roof features such as skylights, dormers, or vents if they will compromise the historic roof design, or damage character-defining roof materials or the character of the historic district.
9.
One shall not install ventilators, solar collectors, antenna, skylights, or mechanical equipment in locations that compromise character defining roofs or on roof slopes prominently visible from the street.
10.
One shall not install exposed tarpaper rolls as a finished roofing material or roofing tar as a replacement for valley flashing.
11.
One shall not patch any roofing or flashing with tar or asphalt product.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the metal, wooden, and masonry elements of historic roofs through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of deterioration and moisture penetration.
2.
Clean gutters and downspouts to ensure proper drainage.
3.
Replace deteriorated flashing as necessary.
4.
Reapply appropriate protective coats to metal roofs as necessary.
5.
Maintain adequate ventilation of roof sheathing to prevent moisture damage.
6.
Ensure that roofing materials are adequately anchored to resist wind and water.
7.
Re-fasten loose (or replace damaged) shingles, slates, or tiles.
b.
Repair historic roofs and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for resetting or reinforcing.
F.
Exterior walls:
1.
Retain and preserve exterior walls that contribute to the overall historic form and character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as cornices, foundations, bays, quoins, arches, water tables, brackets, and entablatures.
2.
Retain and preserve exterior wall materials that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including brickwork, stucco, stone, wooden shingles, wooden siding, asbestos siding, and metal, wooden, or masonry trim work.
3.
Repair exterior wall surfaces, details, and features using recognized preservation repair methods for the surface material or coating.
4.
If the replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an exterior wall is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, pattern, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If replacement of an entire exterior wall or feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
6.
If an exterior wall or feature is completely missing, replace it with a new wall or feature based on accurate documentation of the original or new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
7.
One shall not introduce new features such as window or door openings, bays, vents, balconies, or chimneys to character-defining exterior walls if this will compromise the architectural integrity of the building.
8.
One shall not remove or cover any material detail associated with exterior walls, including decorative shingles, panels, brackets, bargeboards, and corner boards unless supported by historic documentation.
9.
One shall not cover historic wall material, including wooden siding, wooden shingles, stucco, brick, and stonework, with coatings or contemporary substitute materials.
10.
It is not appropriate to introduce features or details to an exterior wall that would create a false historical appearance.
G.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking should be gravel, brick, concrete, or paved with appropriate textured asphalt.
b.
Care should be taken not to injure nearby trees by intruding on the root areas.
c.
Design new driveways, walkways to be compatible in location, spacing, configuration, and dimension with existing walkways and driveways that contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
d.
One shall not locate new parking areas where they are visible from the street, or to significantly alter the proportion of built area to yard area.
e.
One shall not locate parking where it will obstruct the principal structure.
H.
Lighting:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Lighting of walkways, driveways and off-street parking shall retain and preserve mechanically sound exterior fixtures that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, site or streetscape.
b.
If replacing missing or deteriorated historical exterior fixtures, replace with fixtures that are similar in appearance, scale, and material to the original.
c.
The introduction of indiscriminate permanent area lighting, illuminating facades of houses with harsh floodlight, or creating a runway effect with multiple footlights along front walks is not allowed unless approved by the Commission.
I.
Windows and doors:
1.
Retain and preserve windows that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, sash, muntins, sills, heads, moldings, surrounds, hardware, shutters, and blinds.
2.
Retain and preserve doors that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, glazing, panels, sidelights, fanlights, surrounds, thresholds, and hardware.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door feature or detail is necessary, replace only the deteriorated feature in kind rather than the entire unit. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door unit is necessary, replace the unit in kind, matching the design and dimension of the original sash or panels, pane configuration, architectural trim, detailing, and materials. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a window or a door is completely missing, replace it with a new unit based on accurate documentation of the original or a new design compatible with the original opening and the historic character of the building.
6.
Replace deteriorated or missing wooden shutters with historically appropriate wooden shutters sized to fit the opening. Do not introduce shutters on a historic building if no evidence of earlier shutters exists.
7.
If additional windows and doors are necessary for a new use, install them on a rear or non-character-defining facade of the building, but only if they do not compromise the architectural integrity of the building. Design such units to be compatible with the overall design of the building, but not to duplicate the original.
8.
One shall not remove original doors, windows, shutters, hardware, and without approval from the Commission.
9.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with windows and doors, such as stained glass, beveled glass, textured glass, or tracery, unless supported by historic documentation.
10.
One shall not use snap-in muntins to create false divided-light appearance.
11.
One shall not replace clear glazing with tinted or opaque glazing.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the wood and metal elements of historic windows and doors through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect regularly for deterioration, moisture damage, air infiltration, paint failure, and corrosion.
2.
Clean the surface using the gentlest means possible.
3.
Limit paint removal and reapply protective coatings as necessary.
4.
Reglaze sash as necessary to prevent moisture infiltration.
5.
Weather-strip windows and doors to reduce air infiltration and increase energy efficiency.
b.
Repair historic windows and doors and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
c.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with the existing meeting rail.
d.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door and frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors are not appropriate.
e.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
J.
Entrances, porches, and balconies:
1.
Retain and preserve entrances, porches, and balconies that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including such functional and decorative elements as columns, pilasters, piers, entablatures, balustrades, sidelights, fanlights, transoms, steps, railings, floors, and ceilings.
2.
When repairing historic entrances, porches, balconies and their distinctive features and materials, use recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a feature or an entire entrance, porch or balcony is missing, replace it with a feature based on accurate historic documentation or a new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
6.
One shall not enclose a front porch or balcony without approval from the Commission.
7.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with entrances and porches, such as graining, spindle-work, beveled glass, or beaded board, unless supported by historic documentation.
8.
One shall not remove an original entrance or porch or add a new entrance or porch on a primary facade.
9.
One shall not introduce features or details to a historic entrance, porch or balcony that would create a false historical appearance.
K.
Utilities and energy retrofit:
1.
If a new mechanical system is needed, install it so that it causes the least amount of alteration to the building's exterior facades, historic building fabric, and site features.
2.
Increase the thermal efficiency of historic buildings by observing appropriate traditional practices, such as weather stripping and caulking, and by introducing energy-efficient features, such as awnings, operable shutters, and storm windows and doors, where appropriate.
3.
Retain and preserve the inherent energy-conserving features of historic buildings and their sites, including shade trees, porches, awnings, and operable windows, transoms, shutters, and blinds.
4.
Locate portable window air-conditioning units on rear facades or inconspicuous side facades.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with existing meeting rails.
b.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door or frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finished that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors and storm windows are not appropriate.
c.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
d.
In general, the introduction of underground utility lines to reduce the intrusion of additional overhead lines and poles is encouraged. However, in trenching, take care to avoid archaeological resources and the roots of trees.
L.
Accessibility, health, and safety considerations:
1.
In considering changes to a historic building, review accessibility and life safety code implications to determine if the proposed change is compatible with the building's historic character and setting or will compromise them.
2.
Meet accessibility and life-safety building code requirements in such a way that the historic building's character-defining facades, features, and finishes are preserved.
3.
Determine appropriate solutions to accessibility with input from the Commission, historic preservation specialists and local disability groups.
4.
Introduce new or additional means of access that are reversible and that do not compromise the original design of a historic entrance or porch.
5.
Work with code officials to explore alternative methods of equal or superior effectiveness in meeting safety code requirements while preserving significant historic features.
6.
Locate fire doors, exterior fire stairs, or elevator additions on side or rear facades. Design such elements to be compatible in character, materials, scale, proportion, and finish with the historic building.
M.
Aesthetic recommendations:
1.
Survey in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
2.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip lines of trees.
3.
Limit the size and scale of an addition in relationship to the historic building so that it does not diminish or visually overpower the building.
PART TWO—ADDITIONS AND NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
A.
Additions to historic buildings:
1.
Design an addition to be compatible with the historic building in mass, materials, and relationship of solids to windows and doors in the exterior walls, yet make the addition discernible from the original.
2.
One shall not construct an addition if it will detract from the overall historic character of the principal building and the site, or if it will require the removal of a significant building element or site feature.
3.
One shall not construct an addition that significantly changes the proportion of built mass to open space on the individual site.
4.
Construct new additions so that there is the least possible loss of historic fabric and so that the character-defining features of the historic building are not destroyed, damaged, or obscured.
5.
Design new additions so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and view are retained.
6.
Locate a new addition on an inconspicuous elevation of the historic building, usually the rear one.
B.
New building construction:
1.
New site construction shall be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of orientation, and distance from adjacent buildings.
2.
Design new construction so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and views are retained.
3.
Evaluate in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
4.
Design new buildings to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of height, form, size, scale, massing, proportion, and roof shape.
5.
Design the proportion of the proposed new building's front facade to be compatible with the front facade proportion of surrounding buildings.
6.
Design the spacing, placement, scale, orientation, proportion, and size of window and door openings in proposed new construction to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
7.
Select windows and doors for proposed new building that are compatible in material, subdivision, proportion, pattern, and detail with the windows and the doors of surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
8.
Select materials and finishes for proposed new buildings that are compatible with historic materials and finishes found in surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district in terms of composition, scale, module, pattern, detail, texture, finish and sheen.
9.
Design new buildings so that they are compatible with, but discernible from, historic buildings in the district.
Recommendations:
1.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip line of trees.
PART THREE—RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
1.
Before moving a historic structure, document its original setting and context. Use photographs, site plans, or other graphic or written statements to record existing site conditions.
2.
Enlist contractors experienced in moving historic buildings to do the following:
a.
Determine the structural condition of the property before the move.
b.
Coordinate the move with the utility companies and appropriate city departments.
c.
Protect the structure from vandalism or weather damage before, during and after the move.
d.
Minimize structural damage during the move.
3.
Relocate a structure within the historic district only if it is determined to be architecturally compatible with the adjacent buildings according to the guidelines for new construction.
4.
Relocate a structure on a site within a historic district according to new construction guidelines for siting, orientation, plantings, and other pertinent aspects of site and setting.
5.
Ensure that the relocation of a structure will not diminish or damage existing historic district buildings or the overall character of the district. Pay particular attention to the tree canopy along the route of the move.
6.
Provide the HPC with site plan information for the proposed site features and plantings of the new setting, including information on accessory buildings, driveways, site lighting, and parking areas.
7.
If the original site of the structure to be relocated is within a historic district, before the move, submit to the Commission a site plan for proposed site features and plantings of the original site after the relocation.
8.
Protect significant site features of the original site, the new site, and the route of the move during relocation.
PART FOUR—DEMOLITION
1.
Before demolition, submit a site plan to the Commission illustrating proposed site development or plantings to follow demolition.
2.
During demolition, ensure the safety of any adjacent properties and historic resources. Also, during and after demolition, protect the trees on the site from damage due to compaction of the soil by equipment or materials.
3.
After demolition, clear the site promptly and thoroughly.
4.
After demolition, plant or develop the site promptly as approved in the proposed site plan.
(e)
Effective date. This district shall become effective on April 1, 2006.
(Ord. No. 06-06, § 2, 2-16-06; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08; Ord. No. 05-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-55. - Cherokee-Cassville Historic District.
The City Council of the City of Cartersville adopts the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District as indicated herein.
(a)
Boundaries. The boundaries of the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District as indicated herein.
The Cherokee-Cassville District encompasses an area beginning at Bartow Street on the east; the proposed district extends to the west, centered along West Cherokee Avenue, to School Street. It then extends to the west and northwest, lying between West Cherokee Avenue, west to Jackson Street, and Wofford Street, northwest to Saint Francis Street. From approximately Saint Francis Street, the district continues to the northwest along both sides of Cassville Road to the Seaboard Railroad track. The proposed district is an area of predominantly historic residential development that lies along and in the vicinity of the West Cherokee Avenue - Cassville Road corridor. It lies west of the previously designated Downtown Business Historic District and north of the previously designated West End Historic District.
This proposed local historic district contains approximately 87.75 acres within the city limits of Cartersville, Georgia.
(b)
Designation of contributing and non-contributing and owner list. The following is a list of all properties and property owners of the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District and designation of each property as contributing or noncontributing pursuant to the City of Cartersville Historic Preservation Ordinance.
Cherokee-Cassville HD Total Property Owners
Update 7-23-07
EXPAND
Street Name Street
Number Property
Owner Mailing
Address City, State Zip Status*
Bartow St. S 5 David Caswell PO Box 2187 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Bartow St. S 7 E. Dargan Cole Trust 48 Ivy Chase Atlanta, GA 30342 C
Bartow St. S 9 American Real Estate Group Inc. 9 South Bartow St Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Bartow St. N 102 Anthony N. Perrotta & Brian R. Cahn 102 N. Bartow St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 6 J.R. Cullens 295 W. Crossville Rd. Ste. 310 Roswell, GA 30075 C
Cassville Rd. 7 Louisa S. White & Kathrine B. Simpson 7 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 15 Henry D. Pettit, Jr. 15 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 18 Linda S. Jolly 18 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 19 Mary Joan Karam 19 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 23 Harry B. & Vandivere C. White 23 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 24 Lisa A. Kauzlarich 24 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 32 Willard A. & Martha E. Gray PO Box 633 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville R. 39 George E. Shropshire, IIII 39 Cassville Road Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 45 Reba S. Tilley 817 N. Tenn. St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 49 Beth L. Tilley & Greg D. Frisbee 49 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 50 Ann M. Warren 50 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Cassville Rd. 55 Thomas J. Jr. & Emily F. Champion 55 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 56 William Guy Taff 56 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 60 Carolyn Parmenter 60 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 68 James R. Dellinger, Jr. 68 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 69 Gr. New Fellowship Missionary Bapt. Ch. PO Box 444 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 79 Tony Smith PO Box 370 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 95 Warren Akin PO Box 878 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 99 Peter M. Schaeffer 99 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 100 J.L. Davis Estate PO Box 1986 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 101 Evelyn R. Barlett 101 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 105 Jane Smith Beck PO Box 1587 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 107 Emily C. Padgett 107 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 113 James F. Jones 113 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 114 Guy S. Parmenter 114 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 117 Hugh A. Jr. & June P. Boss 104 West Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 119 Winnell Brown 119 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 122 Anthony A. Frederico & Lisa D. Ellis 122 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 123 Glover & Gloria Tatum 64 Cherokee Hts., SW Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cassville Rd. 126 Vera O'Laughlin Leary 496 Millers Mill Rd. Stockbridge, GA 30281 C
Cassville Rd. 133 Chloe H. Jarrett (c/o Ann Wooten) 380 Willowbrook Dr. Smyrna, GA 30082 C
Cassville Rd. 141 E & S Investments, LLC 19 Wellington Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Cassville Rd. 142 Anil Enterprises, Inc. 165 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Charles St. 24 Lance E. Eubanks 24 Charles Street Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Charles St. 27 Tiffany F. Strickland 27 Charles Street Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Charles St. 29 Dolph Nelson 29 Charles Street Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Charles St. 32 Jimmy Hewlett 32 Charles St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Charles St. 33 Gary L. & Elizabeth H. Fox 33 Charles St. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Charles St. 34 Adrian McDaniel 119 Woodcrest Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 201 Episcopal Church of the Ascension 205 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 202 Thomas J. Champion Jr. 55 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 204 Virginia Hamilton Shaw Rev. Trust 204 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 206 Episcopal Church of the Ascension 205 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 208 Joyce B & James H. Murphy 208 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W. 209 Episcopal Church of the Ascension 205 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave W 211 Jerry D. & Linda P. Benton 144 Cherokee Cir. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 212 William B. & Frances R. Moon 212 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 215 Thomas Jeffery & Beverly G. Baribault 215 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 217 Jim & Debra Macht 73 Old Stonemill Rd. Marietta, GA 30067 C
Cherokee Ave. W 218 VSGC Living Trust 218 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 223 William Bradford & Susan I. Barrett 223 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 224 Bartow County Commissioner 135 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 227 Timothy L. & Karen H. Brawner 227 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 231 Steve Crawford In. 50515 Chapel Crossing Douglasville, GA 30135 C
Cherokee Ave. W 301 Martha Eliza Shaw PO Box 3693 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 312 Evelyn Ellis Lowery PO Box 302 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 308 Louisa S. White & Kathrine B. Simpson 308 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 317 James B. & Tracy P. Potts 317 West Cherokee Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 321 David C. & Maudean M. Gregory PO Box 1731 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 323 Willard A. & Martha E. Gray PO Box 633 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 341 Judy S. Smith 104 Meadow Lane Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 345 Belinda Hewett 345 West Cherokee Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 347 Billy T. Cox 347 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cherokee Ave. W 625 Brian J. Choate 625 W. Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Church St. W 210 Dorothy Buchanan Ford 210 West Church St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Church St. W 225 Francis McIntyre 225 W. Church St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Church St. W 229 Jay W. & Shawn G. Eckard 229 W. Church St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Cross St. 1 Samuel & Maria Meza 1 Cross St. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Cross St. 10 Paul E. & Rebecca L. Wilson 24 Mill Creek Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Fite St. 5 The Fite Living Centre, Inc. 5 Fite Street Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Fite St. 9 Evelyn C. Fox PO Box 98 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Green St. 16 Daniel B. & Linda Pickard 13 Terry Lane Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Green St. 18 William D. & Betty M. Lyerla 222 Pioneer Tr. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
Green St. 22 Robert E. & Berta M. Johnson 22 Green St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Green St. 32 J.T. Hunt 32 Green St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Green St. 37 Jody Pettit Riley PO Box 485 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Green St. 38 Jeanne W. Whatley 38 Green St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Greene St. 12 James Dyer Kennedy, Jr. PO Box 903 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Greene St. 33 Jody Pettit Riley PO Box 485 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Greene St. 35 Jody P. Rilely & H. Boyd Pettit, III PO Box 485 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Hillside Dr. 10 Ricky L. & Bridget N. Priest PO Box 4018 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Hillside Dr. 15 Alonna J. Howell 15 Hillside Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Hillside Dr. 16 Hugh J. Gilreath, Jr. 16 Hillside Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Hillside Dr. 21 Boyd, III & Vickie C. Pettit PO Box 1178 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Hillside Dr. 25 S. Terry & Aledia Vaughan 25 Hillside Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Howard Heights 3 Leila A. Johnson 3 Howard Heights Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Howard Heights 4 Lynn A. Henderson 4 Howard Heights Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Howard Heights 5 Lelia P. Johnson 5 Howard Heights Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Howard Heights 12 Joseph C., Jr. & Mary S. Nelson 31 Million Hills Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Jones St. 1 LAR Properties, LLC 100 West Cherokee Ave. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Jones St. 4 Cole Law 4 Jones St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Milam St. 0 Harry B. & Vandivere White 23 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Milam St. 2 Reba Branch Henderson 740 Martin Luther King Dr. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
School St. 6 Evelyn Ellis Lowery PO Box 302 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
St. Francis Pl. 32 Gr. New Fellowship Missionary Bapt. Ch. 69 Cassville Rd. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
St. Francis Pl. 37 Myra J. & David R. Haller 37 St. Francis Place Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Wofford St. 14 Mary F. & Buffaloe S.P. Patton 14 Wofford St. Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Wofford St. 16 Harry B. White PO Box 1987 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Wofford St. 18 Harry B. White PO Box 1987 Cartersville, GA 30120 C
Wofford St. 20 Lindsey McDaniel 20 Wofford St. Cartersville, GA 30120 NC
  (c)
Overlay map. The zoning map of the City of Cartersville shall be amended to show the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District as an overlay on said zoning map and said overlay on said zoning map and said overlay shall be designated as the H-1C-C Historic District.
(d)
Design standards. The following design standards are adopted for the Cherokee-Cassville Historic District:
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES
CONTRIBUTING TO THE RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC DISTRICTS
INTRODUCTION
The following Residential Design Standards are intended to identify the character-defining features of a site or structure used in determining the compatibility of the proposed alteration, repair, renovation, rehabilitation or restoration of an existing structure or the construction of a new structure regarding the appropriateness of the size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed as contributing to the character of a historic property or structure as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
For items not addressed by the following standards or guidelines, the Commission will refer to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, latest edition, for guidance.
In filing for a Certificate of Preservation all standards shall be complied with and so demonstrated on said application and supporting documentation. Guidelines, as indicated herein, may or may not be demonstrated in the application or supporting documentation for a Certificate of Preservation. Maintenance recommendations, if any, are included for informational purposes only and are not required to be included in an application for a Certificate of Preservation and, as such, shall not be considered by the Commission in reviewing said applications.
Generally:
1.
It is not appropriate to introduce structures or contemporary equipment such as satellite dishes, solar collectors, playground equipment, heating and air units, storage units, and swimming pools, in locations that compromise the historic character of the building or site. Locate such features unobtrusively, and screen them from view.
2.
When planning to alter the topography of a site substantially through grading, filling, or excavation, one shall contact the Cartersville Planning and Development Department to confirm that the proposed changes comply with the city building code and development regulations.
3.
When remodeling historic structures or constructing new structures in historic districts, care shall be taken in retaining and preserving the historic relationship between buildings and related features of the district, to include but not be limited to, site topography, retaining walls, foundation plantings, hedges, walkways, driveways, parking lots, trees, gardens, yards, arbors, ground cover, fences, accessory buildings, patios, terraces, and significant vistas and views.
PART ONE—MAINTAINING, REPAIRING, AND REPLACING EXISTING STRUCTURES
A.
Wood:
1.
Repair historic wooden features using the recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
2.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of a wooden feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
3.
If replacement of an entire wooden feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, and texture. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
4.
If a wooden feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, material, and texture with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not clean wooden features and surfaces with destructive methods such as sandblasting, power washing, and using propane or butane torches. Clean using gentle methods such as low-pressure washing with detergents and natural bristle brushes. Chemical strippers can be used only if gentler methods are ineffective.
6.
One shall not strip historically painted surfaces down to bare wood and apply clean stains or finishes to create a natural wood appearance.
7.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
8.
One shall not replace or cover wooden siding, trim, or window sashes with contemporary substitute materials such as aluminum, masonite or vinyl without approval from the Commission. However, in order to maintain continuity, material for additions, as well as out buildings, shall closely match the house.
9.
One shall not introduce wooden features or details to a historic building to create a false historic appearance.
10.
Preserve wooden features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and site, including such functional and decorative elements as siding, shingles, cornices, architrave, brackets, pediments, columns, balustrades, and architectural trim.
11.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed.
a.
When retaining and cleaning painted surfaces, it is required that the gentlest means possible be used. It is further required that historic structures be painted only when the paint film is damaged or deteriorated.
b.
Protect and maintain wooden surfaces and features through appropriate methods. Inspect for and repair signs of moisture damage, mildew, and fungal or insect infestation. Keep wooden joints properly sealed or caulked to prevent moisture infiltration.
c.
Treat traditionally unpainted, exposed wooden features with chemical preservatives to prevent or slow their decay and deterioration.
d.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint, to prevent damage from ultraviolet light and moisture.
B.
Masonry:
1.
Retain and preserve masonry features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including walls, foundations, roofing materials, chimneys, cornices, quoins, steps, buttresses, piers, columns, lintels, arches, and sills.
2.
Protect and maintain historic masonry materials, such as brick, terra cotta, limestone, granite, stucco, slate, concrete, cement block, and clay tile, and their constructive features, including bond patterns, corbels, water tables, and unpainted surfaces.
3.
Repair historic masonry surfaces and features using recognized preservation methods for piecing-in, consolidating, patching damaged or deteriorated masonry. One shall not apply a waterproof coating to exposed masonry.
4.
Repoint masonry mortar joints if the mortar is cracked, crumbling, or missing or if damp walls or damaged plaster indicate moisture penetration.
5.
Before repointing, carefully remove deteriorated mortar using hand tools. Replace the mortar with new mortar that duplicates the original in strength, texture, and composition. Match the original mortar joints in width and profile.
6.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail, module, or element of a masonry feature or surface is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire surface or feature. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
7.
If replacement of a large masonry surface or entire feature is necessary, replace it in kind, with matching, substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
8.
If a masonry feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible with the scale, size, and material of the historic building and district.
9.
One shall not paint, coat, or waterproof unpainted masonry surfaces. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
10.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Inspect surfaces and features for signs of moisture damage, vegetation, structural cracks or settlement, deteriorated mortar, and loose or missing masonry units.
b.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces, collecting on decorative elements or along foundations and piers, and rising through capillary action.
c.
Clean masonry only when necessary to remove heavy soiling or prevent deterioration. Use the gentlest means possible.
d.
Repaint painted masonry surfaces when needed.
e.
Test any cleaning technique, including chemical solutions, on an inconspicuous sample area well in advance of the proposed cleaning to evaluate its effects. One shall not clean masonry features and surfaces with destructive methods, including sandblasting, high-pressure water blasting, and power washing.
C.
Architectural metals:
1.
Retain and preserve architectural metal features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including such functional and decorative elements as roofing, flashing, cornices, railings, hardware, casement windows, and fences.
2.
Retain and preserve architectural metals, such as copper, tin, brass, cast iron, wrought iron, lead, and terneplate, which contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
3.
If replacement of deteriorated detail or element of an architectural metal feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire architectural feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original feature in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If an architectural metal feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original design or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material with the historic building and district.
6.
Repair deteriorating architectural metal features and surfaces using recognized preservation methods for splicing, patching, and reinforcing.
7.
One shall not introduce architectural metal features or details to a historic building in an attempt to create a false historical appearance.
8.
One shall not patch metal roofs or flashing with tar or asphalt products.
9.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain architectural metal surfaces and features through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of moisture damage, corrosion, structural failure or fatigue, galvanic action, and paint film failure.
2.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces and collecting on decorative elements.
3.
Clear metal roofs and gutters of leaves and debris.
b.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint and lacquers, to prevent corrosion.
c.
Clean when necessary to remove corrosion or to prepare for recoating. Use the gentlest effective method.
d.
Repaint promptly when paint film deteriorates.
e.
Clean soft metals, including lead, tin, terneplate, and copper, with chemical solutions after pretesting them to ensure that they do not damage the metal surface. It is not appropriate to clean soft metal surfaces with destructive methods like grit blasting.
f.
Clean hard metals such as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel using the gentlest means possible. Consider low-pressure glass bead blasting only if hand scraping and wire brushing have been ineffective.
D.
Paint:
1.
Preserve and protect original exterior building surfaces and site features that were painted by maintaining a sound paint film on them.
2.
One shall not paint brick, stone, copper, bronze, concrete, or cement block surfaces that were historically unpainted. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
3.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
4.
One shall not remove paint films through destructive methods such as sandblasting, water blasting, power washing, or the use of propane or butane torches.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain previously painted exterior surfaces in appropriate ways:
1.
Inspect painted surfaces for signs of discoloration, moisture damage, mildew, and dirt buildup.
2.
Clean painted surfaces to avoid unnecessary repainting. Use the gentlest means possible.
3.
Remove deteriorated and peeling paint films to the first sound paint layer before repainting. Use the gentlest means possible, such as hand scraping and hand sanding. Use electric heat guns and plates with caution and only if gentler methods are ineffective.
4.
Ensure that surfaces to be repainted are clean and dry, and that any exposed wood or metal surface has been primed so that new paint will bond properly.
b.
Repaint previously painted surfaces with compatible paint.
E.
Roofs:
1.
Retain and preserve roofs and roof forms that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as roofing materials, cresting, dormers, chimneys, cupolas, and cornices, unless approved by the Commission.
2.
If replacement of a partially deteriorated roof feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind to match the original feature in design, dimension, detail, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
3.
If full replacement of a deteriorated historic roofing material or feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in scale, detail, pattern, design, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If a roof feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material, with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not remove a roof feature that is important in defining the overall historic character of a building rather than repair and replace it.
6.
If new gutters and downspouts are needed, install them so that no architectural features are lost or damaged. Retain the shape of traditional half-round gutters and downspouts if replacing them.
7.
One shall not replace concealed, built-in gutter systems with exposed gutters.
8.
One shall not introduce new roof features such as skylights, dormers, or vents if they will compromise the historic roof design, or damage character-defining roof materials or the character of the historic district.
9.
One shall not install ventilators, solar collectors, antenna, skylights, or mechanical equipment in locations that compromise character defining roofs or on roof slopes prominently visible from the street.
10.
One shall not install exposed tarpaper rolls as a finished roofing material or roofing tar as a replacement for valley flashing.
11.
One shall not patch any roofing or flashing with tar or asphalt product.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the metal, wooden, and masonry elements of historic roofs through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of deterioration and moisture penetration.
2.
Clean gutters and downspouts to ensure proper drainage.
3.
Replace deteriorated flashing as necessary.
4.
Reapply appropriate protective coats to metal roofs as necessary.
5.
Maintain adequate ventilation of roof sheathing to prevent moisture damage.
6.
Ensure that roofing materials are adequately anchored to resist wind and water.
7.
Re-fasten loose (or replace damaged) shingles, slates, or tiles.
b.
Repair historic roofs and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for resetting or reinforcing.
F.
Exterior walls:
1.
Retain and preserve exterior walls that contribute to the overall historic form and character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as cornices, foundations, bays, quoins, arches, water tables, brackets, and entablatures.
2.
Retain and preserve exterior wall materials that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including brickwork, stucco, stone, wooden shingles, wooden siding, asbestos siding, and metal, wooden, or masonry trim work.
3.
Repair exterior wall surfaces, details, and features using recognized preservation repair methods for the surface material or coating.
4.
If the replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an exterior wall is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, pattern, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If replacement of an entire exterior wall or feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
6.
If an exterior wall or feature is completely missing, replace it with a new wall or feature based on accurate documentation of the original or new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
7.
One shall not introduce new features such as window or door openings, bays, vents, balconies, or chimneys to character-defining exterior walls if this will compromise the architectural integrity of the building.
8.
One shall not remove or cover any material detail associated with exterior walls, including decorative shingles, panels, brackets, bargeboards, and corner boards unless supported by historic documentation.
9.
One shall not cover historic wall material, including wooden siding, wooden shingles, stucco, brick, and stonework, with coatings or contemporary substitute materials.
10.
It is not appropriate to introduce features or details to an exterior wall that would create a false historical appearance.
G.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking should be gravel, brick, concrete, or paved with appropriate textured asphalt.
b.
Care should be taken not to injure nearby trees by intruding on the root areas.
c.
Design new driveways, walkways to be compatible in location, spacing, configuration, and dimension with existing walkways and driveways that contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
d.
One shall not locate new parking areas where they are visible from the street, or to significantly alter the proportion of built area to yard area.
e.
One shall not locate parking where it will obstruct the principal structure.
H.
Lighting:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Lighting of walkways, driveways and off-street parking shall retain and preserve mechanically sound exterior fixtures that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, site or streetscape.
b.
If replacing missing or deteriorated historical exterior fixtures, replace with fixtures that are similar in appearance, scale, and material to the original.
c.
The introduction of indiscriminate permanent area lighting, illuminating facades of houses with harsh floodlight, or creating a runway effect with multiple footlights along front walks is not allowed unless approved by the Commission.
I.
Windows and doors:
1.
Retain and preserve windows that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, sash, muntins, sills, heads, moldings, surrounds, hardware, shutters, and blinds.
2.
Retain and preserve doors that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, glazing, panels, sidelights, fanlights, surrounds, thresholds, and hardware.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door feature or detail is necessary, replace only the deteriorated feature in kind rather than the entire unit. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door unit is necessary, replace the unit in kind, matching the design and dimension of the original sash or panels, pane configuration, architectural trim, detailing, and materials. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a window or a door is completely missing, replace it with a new unit based on accurate documentation of the original or a new design compatible with the original opening and the historic character of the building.
6.
Replace deteriorated or missing wooden shutters with historically appropriate wooden shutters sized to fit the opening. Do not introduce shutters on a historic building if no evidence of earlier shutters exists.
7.
If additional windows and doors are necessary for a new use, install them on a rear or non-character-defining facade of the building, but only if they do not compromise the architectural integrity of the building. Design such units to be compatible with the overall design of the building, but not to duplicate the original.
8.
One shall not remove original doors, windows, shutters, hardware, and without approval from the Commission.
9.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with windows and doors, such as stained glass, beveled glass, textured glass, or tracery, unless supported by historic documentation.
10.
One shall not use snap-in muntins to create false divided-light appearance.
11.
One shall not replace clear glazing with tinted or opaque glazing.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the wood and metal elements of historic windows and doors through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect regularly for deterioration, moisture damage, air infiltration, paint failure, and corrosion.
2.
Clean the surface using the gentlest means possible.
3.
Limit paint removal and reapply protective coatings as necessary.
4.
Reglaze sash as necessary to prevent moisture infiltration.
5.
Weather-strip windows and doors to reduce air infiltration and increase energy efficiency.
b.
Repair historic windows and doors and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
c.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with the existing meeting rail.
d.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door and frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors are not appropriate.
e.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
J.
Entrances, porches, and balconies:
1.
Retain and preserve entrances, porches, and balconies that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including such functional and decorative elements as columns, pilasters, piers, entablatures, balustrades, sidelights, fanlights, transoms, steps, railings, floors, and ceilings.
2.
When repairing historic entrances, porches, balconies and their distinctive features and materials, use recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a feature or an entire entrance, porch or balcony is missing, replace it with a feature based on accurate historic documentation or a new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
6.
One shall not enclose a front porch or balcony without approval from the Commission.
7.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with entrances and porches, such as graining, spindle-work, beveled glass, or beaded board, unless supported by historic documentation.
8.
One shall not remove an original entrance or porch or add a new entrance or porch on a primary facade.
9.
One shall not introduce features or details to a historic entrance, porch or balcony that would create a false historical appearance.
K.
Utilities and energy retrofit:
1.
If a new mechanical system is needed, install it so that it causes the least amount of alteration to the building's exterior facades, historic building fabric, and site features.
2.
Increase the thermal efficiency of historic buildings by observing appropriate traditional practices, such as weather stripping and caulking, and by introducing energy-efficient features, such as awnings, operable shutters, and storm windows and doors, where appropriate.
3.
Retain and preserve the inherent energy-conserving features of historic buildings and their sites, including shade trees, porches, awnings, and operable windows, transoms, shutters, and blinds.
4.
Locate portable window air-conditioning units on rear facades or inconspicuous side facades.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with existing meeting rails.
b.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door or frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finished that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors and storm windows are not appropriate.
c.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
d.
In general, the introduction of underground utility lines to reduce the intrusion of additional overhead lines and poles is encouraged. However, in trenching, take care to avoid archaeological resources and the roots of trees.
L.
Accessibility, health, and safety considerations:
1.
In considering changes to a historic building, review accessibility and life safety code implications to determine if the proposed change is compatible with the building's historic character and setting or will compromise them.
2.
Meet accessibility and life-safety building code requirements in such a way that the historic building's character-defining facades, features, and finishes are preserved.
3.
Determine appropriate solutions to accessibility with input from the Commission, historic preservation specialists and local disability groups.
4.
Introduce new or additional means of access that are reversible and that do not compromise the original design of a historic entrance or porch.
5.
Work with code officials to explore alternative methods of equal or superior effectiveness in meeting safety code requirements while preserving significant historic features.
6.
Locate fire doors, exterior fire stairs, or elevator additions on side or rear facades. Design such elements to be compatible in character, materials, scale, proportion, and finish with the historic building.
M.
Aesthetic recommendations:
1.
Survey in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
2.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip lines of trees.
3.
Limit the size and scale of an addition in relationship to the historic building so that it does not diminish or visually overpower the building.
PART TWO—ADDITIONS AND NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
A.
Additions to historic buildings:
1.
Design an addition to be compatible with the historic building in mass, materials, and relationship of solids to windows and doors in the exterior walls, yet make the addition discernible from the original.
2.
One shall not construct an addition if it will detract from the overall historic character of the principal building and the site, or if it will require the removal of a significant building element or site feature.
3.
One shall not construct an addition that significantly changes the proportion of built mass to open space on the individual site.
4.
Construct new additions so that there is the least possible loss of historic fabric and so that the character-defining features of the historic building are not destroyed, damaged, or obscured.
5.
Design new additions so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and view are retained.
6.
Locate a new addition on an inconspicuous elevation of the historic building, usually the rear one.
B.
New building construction:
1.
New site construction shall be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of orientation, and distance from adjacent buildings.
2.
Design new construction so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and views are retained.
3.
Evaluate in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
4.
Design new buildings to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of height, form, size, scale, massing, proportion, and roof shape.
5.
Design the proportion of the proposed new building's front facade to be compatible with the front facade proportion of surrounding buildings.
6.
Design the spacing, placement, scale, orientation, proportion, and size of window and door openings in proposed new construction to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
7.
Select windows and doors for proposed new building that are compatible in material, subdivision, proportion, pattern, and detail with the windows and the doors of surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
8.
Select materials and finishes for proposed new buildings that are compatible with historic materials and finishes found in surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district in terms of composition, scale, module, pattern, detail, texture, finish and sheen.
9.
Design new buildings so that they are compatible with, but discernible from, historic buildings in the district.
Recommendations:
1.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip line of trees.
PART THREE—RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
1.
Before moving a historic structure, document its original setting and context. Use photographs, site plans, or other graphic or written statements to record existing site conditions.
2.
Enlist contractors experienced in moving historic buildings to do the following:
a.
Determine the structural condition of the property before the move.
b.
Coordinate the move with the utility companies and appropriate city departments.
c.
Protect the structure from vandalism or weather damage before, during and after the move.
d.
Minimize structural damage during the move.
3.
Relocate a structure within the historic district only if it is determined to be architecturally compatible with the adjacent buildings according to the guidelines for new construction.
4.
Relocate a structure on a site within a historic district according to new construction guidelines for siting, orientation, plantings, and other pertinent aspects of site and setting.
5.
Ensure that the relocation of a structure will not diminish or damage existing historic district buildings or the overall character of the district. Pay particular attention to the tree canopy along the route of the move.
6.
Provide the HPC with site plan information for the proposed site features and plantings of the new setting, including information on accessory buildings, driveways, site lighting, and parking areas.
7.
If the original site of the structure to be relocated is within a historic district, before the move, submit to the Commission a site plan for proposed site features and plantings of the original site after the relocation.
8.
Protect significant site features of the original site, the new site, and the route of the move during relocation.
PART FOUR—DEMOLITION
1.
Before demolition, submit a site plan to the Commission illustrating proposed site development or plantings to follow demolition.
2.
During demolition, ensure the safety of any adjacent properties and historic resources. Also, during and after demolition, protect the trees on the site from damage due to compaction of the soil by equipment or materials.
3.
After demolition, clear the site promptly and thoroughly.
4.
After demolition, plant or develop the site promptly as approved in the proposed site plan.
(e)
Effective date. This district shall become effective on November 1, 2007.
(Ord. No. 40-07, § 2, 9-6-07; Ord. No. 06-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
Sec. 9.25-56. - Granger Hill Historic District.
The City Council of the City of Cartersville adopts the Granger Hill Historic District as indicated herein.
(a)
Boundaries. The boundaries of the Granger Hill Historic District are indicated herein.
An area of historic residential development, the proposed historic district contains approximately 25 acres located one mile west of downtown Cartersville at the end of West Main Street in land lots #485 and #486 in the fourth district and third section of originally Cherokee, later Cass, and now Bartow County. The boundaries of the proposed local historic district are shown as a heavy black line on the Proposed Granger Hill Historic District map accompanying this report. The proposed district contains 24 parcels of land identified as Bartow County Tax Parcels C014-0010-001 through -008, C014-0010-015 and -016, C014-0012-001 and -002, and C014-0013-001 through -012. Twenty of the properties are classified as contributing to the district, and four properties are classified as noncontributing. The proposed Granger Hill Historic District lies west and south of the previously designated Cherokee-Cassville Historic District and west and north of the previously designated West End Historic District.
(b)
Designation of contributing and noncontributing and owner list. The following is a list of all properties and property owners of the Granger Hill Historic District and designation of each property as contributing or noncontributing pursuant to the City of Cartersville Historic Preservation Ordinance.
Granger Hill Property Owners
5-29-09
EXPAND
Owner Name St.
No. Street Name St.
Ext. Mailing Address City State ZIP Status *
TY D. MITCHAM 3 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
THOMAS & LINDA McNIFF 6 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
SEASON A. WEAVER 9 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
HIL HARPER 11 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
BENJAMIN G. & IRIS D. STEIN 12 Brookland Dr. PO Box 547 Cartersville GA 30120 C
ROBERT B. & MARTHA D. NELSON 15 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
THOMAS W. & KATHLEEN G. HALL 19 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
WILLIAM B. PANTER 23 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
MARY REBECCA MORRIS 29 Brookland Dr. Cartersville GA 30120 C
GREG L. & ELIZABETH C. SMITH 530 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
JO FRAN HARRIS HARDIN 531 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
DAVID & MISTENE ROUSSEL 532 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 NC
DORTHY P. SHROPSHIRE 538 West Main St. PO Box 1066 Athens GA 30603 NC
MARY GRAY 543 West Main St. PO Box 200563 Cartersville GA 30120 C
DEVAUGHN & SARAH PETTIT 544 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
ROBERT & LAURIE CROWE 547 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
MARGARET F. BRIDGES 548 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
hOMER L. CALHOUN, JR. 552 West Main St. PO Box 141 Cartersville GA 30120 C
J. DAVID & ALICE C. RAMEY 553 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
DAVID CASWELL 557 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
DOUGLAS H. COBB 558 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
THOMAS P. & KIMBERLY S. OWENS 562 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
MRS. E. R. BATES 566 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 NC
DONALD & CONNIE EVANS 572 West Main St. Cartersville GA 30120 C
  STATUS:
C = CONTRIBUTING
N = NONCONTRIBUTING
(c)
Overlay map. The zoning map of the City of Cartersville shall be amended to show the Granger Hill Historic District as an overlay on said zoning map and said overlay on said zoning map and said overlay shall be designated as the H-1 GH Historic District.
(d)
Design standards. The following design standards are adopted for the Granger Hill Historic District:
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES
CONTRIBUTING TO THE RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC DISTRICTS
INTRODUCTION
The following Residential Design Standards are intended to identify the character-defining features of a site or structure used in determining the compatibility of the proposed alteration, repair, renovation, rehabilitation or restoration of an existing structure or the construction of a new structure regarding the appropriateness of the size, location, materials, style, rhythm, and any other quality deemed as contributing to the character of a historic property or structure as determined by the Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
For items not addressed by the following standards or guidelines, the Commission will refer to the U.S. Department of the Interior, Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, latest edition, for guidance.
In filing for a Certificate of Preservation all standards shall be complied with and so demonstrated on said application and supporting documentation. Guidelines, as indicated herein, may or may not be demonstrated in the application or supporting documentation for a Certificate of Preservation. Maintenance recommendations, if any, are included for informational purposes only and are not required to be included in an application for a Certificate of Preservation and, as such, shall not be considered by the Commission in reviewing said applications.
Generally:
1.
It is not appropriate to introduce structures or contemporary equipment such as satellite dishes, solar collectors, playground equipment, heating and air units, storage units, and swimming pools, in locations that compromise the historic character of the building or site. Locate such features unobtrusively, and screen them from view.
2.
When planning to alter the topography of a site substantially through grading, filling, or excavation, one shall contact the Cartersville Planning and Development Department to confirm that the proposed changes comply with the city building code and development regulations.
3.
When remodeling historic structures or constructing new structures in historic districts, care shall be taken in retaining and preserving the historic relationship between buildings and related features of the district, to include but not be limited to, site topography, retaining walls, foundation plantings, hedges, walkways, driveways, parking lots, trees, gardens, yards, arbors, ground cover, fences, accessory buildings, patios, terraces, and significant vistas and views.
PART ONE—MAINTAINING, REPAIRING, AND REPLACING EXISTING STRUCTURES
A.
Wood:
1.
Repair historic wooden features using the recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
2.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of a wooden feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
3.
If replacement of an entire wooden feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, and texture. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not feasible.
4.
If a wooden feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, material, and texture with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not clean wooden features and surfaces with destructive methods such as sandblasting, power washing, and using propane or butane torches. Clean using gentle methods such as low-pressure washing with detergents and natural bristle brushes. Chemical strippers can be used only if gentler methods are ineffective.
6.
One shall not strip historically painted surfaces down to bare wood and apply clean stains or finishes to create a natural wood appearance.
7.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
8.
One shall not replace or cover wooden siding, trim, or window sashes with contemporary substitute materials such as aluminum, masonite or vinyl without approval from the Commission. However, in order to maintain continuity, material for additions, as well as out buildings, shall closely match the house.
9.
One shall not introduce wooden features or details to a historic building to create a false historic appearance.
10.
Preserve wooden features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and site, including such functional and decorative elements as siding, shingles, cornices, architrave, brackets, pediments, columns, balustrades, and architectural trim.
11.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed.
a.
When retaining and cleaning painted surfaces, it is required that the gentlest means possible be used. It is further required that historic structures be painted only when the paint film is damaged or deteriorated.
b.
Protect and maintain wooden surfaces and features through appropriate methods. Inspect for and repair signs of moisture damage, mildew, and fungal or insect infestation. Keep wooden joints properly sealed or caulked to prevent moisture infiltration.
c.
Treat traditionally unpainted, exposed wooden features with chemical preservatives to prevent or slow their decay and deterioration.
d.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint, to prevent damage from ultraviolet light and moisture.
B.
Masonry:
1.
Retain and preserve masonry features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including walls, foundations, roofing materials, chimneys, cornices, quoins, steps, buttresses, piers, columns, lintels, arches, and sills.
2.
Protect and maintain historic masonry materials, such as brick, terra cotta, limestone, granite, stucco, slate, concrete, cement block, and clay tile, and their constructive features, including bond patterns, corbels, water tables, and unpainted surfaces.
3.
Repair historic masonry surfaces and features using recognized preservation methods for piecing-in, consolidating, patching damaged or deteriorated masonry. One shall not apply a waterproof coating to exposed masonry.
4.
Repoint masonry mortar joints if the mortar is cracked, crumbling, or missing or if damp walls or damaged plaster indicate moisture penetration.
5.
Before repointing, carefully remove deteriorated mortar using hand tools. Replace the mortar with new mortar that duplicates the original in strength, texture, and composition. Match the original mortar joints in width and profile.
6.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail, module, or element of a masonry feature or surface is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire surface or feature. Use compatible substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
7.
If replacement of a large masonry surface or entire feature is necessary, replace it in kind, with matching, substitute materials only if using the original material is not technically feasible.
8.
If a masonry feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible with the scale, size, and material of the historic building and district.
9.
One shall not paint, coat, or waterproof unpainted masonry surfaces. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
10.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Inspect surfaces and features for signs of moisture damage, vegetation, structural cracks or settlement, deteriorated mortar, and loose or missing masonry units.
b.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces, collecting on decorative elements or along foundations and piers, and rising through capillary action.
c.
Clean masonry only when necessary to remove heavy soiling or prevent deterioration. Use the gentlest means possible.
d.
Repaint painted masonry surfaces when needed.
e.
Test any cleaning technique, including chemical solutions, on an inconspicuous sample area well in advance of the proposed cleaning to evaluate its effects. One shall not clean masonry features and surfaces with destructive methods, including sandblasting, high-pressure water blasting, and power washing.
C.
Architectural metals:
1.
Retain and preserve architectural metal features that contribute to the overall historic character of a building and a site, including such functional and decorative elements as roofing, flashing, cornices, railings, hardware, casement windows, and fences.
2.
Retain and preserve architectural metals, such as copper, tin, brass, cast iron, wrought iron, lead, and terneplate, which contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
3.
If replacement of deteriorated detail or element of an architectural metal feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original detail or element in design, dimension, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire architectural feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original feature in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If an architectural metal feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original design or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material with the historic building and district.
6.
Repair deteriorating architectural metal features and surfaces using recognized preservation methods for splicing, patching, and reinforcing.
7.
One shall not introduce architectural metal features or details to a historic building in an attempt to create a false historical appearance.
8.
One shall not patch metal roofs or flashing with tar or asphalt products.
9.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain architectural metal surfaces and features through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of moisture damage, corrosion, structural failure or fatigue, galvanic action, and paint film failure.
2.
Provide adequate drainage to prevent water from standing on flat, horizontal surfaces and collecting on decorative elements.
3.
Clear metal roofs and gutters of leaves and debris.
b.
Retain protective surface coatings, such as paint and lacquers, to prevent corrosion.
c.
Clean when necessary to remove corrosion or to prepare for recoating. Use the gentlest effective method.
d.
Repaint promptly when paint film deteriorates.
e.
Clean soft metals, including lead, tin, terneplate, and copper, with chemical solutions after pretesting them to ensure that they do not damage the metal surface. It is not appropriate to clean soft metal surfaces with destructive methods like grit blasting.
f.
Clean hard metals such as cast iron, wrought iron, and steel using the gentlest means possible. Consider low-pressure glass bead blasting only if hand scraping and wire brushing have been ineffective.
D.
Paint:
1.
Preserve and protect original exterior building surfaces and site features that were painted by maintaining a sound paint film on them.
2.
One shall not paint brick, stone, copper, bronze, concrete, or cement block surfaces that were historically unpainted. Do not sandblast exterior surfaces. Use the gentlest means possible to clean exterior materials.
3.
One shall not replace painted wooden siding that is sound with new siding to achieve a uniformly smooth wooden surface.
4.
One shall not remove paint films through destructive methods such as sandblasting, water blasting, power washing, or the use of propane or butane torches.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain previously painted exterior surfaces in appropriate ways:
1.
Inspect painted surfaces for signs of discoloration, moisture damage, mildew, and dirt buildup.
2.
Clean painted surfaces to avoid unnecessary repainting. Use the gentlest means possible.
3.
Remove deteriorated and peeling paint films to the first sound paint layer before repainting. Use the gentlest means possible, such as hand scraping and hand sanding. Use electric heat guns and plates with caution and only if gentler methods are ineffective.
4.
Ensure that surfaces to be repainted are clean and dry, and that any exposed wood or metal surface has been primed so that new paint will bond properly.
b.
Repaint previously painted surfaces with compatible paint.
E.
Roofs:
1.
Retain and preserve roofs and roof forms that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as roofing materials, cresting, dormers, chimneys, cupolas, and cornices, unless approved by the Commission.
2.
If replacement of a partially deteriorated roof feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind to match the original feature in design, dimension, detail, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
3.
If full replacement of a deteriorated historic roofing material or feature is necessary, replace it in kind, matching the original in scale, detail, pattern, design, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If a roof feature is completely missing, replace it with a new feature based on accurate documentation of the original feature or a new design compatible in scale, size, and material, with the historic building and district.
5.
One shall not remove a roof feature that is important in defining the overall historic character of a building rather than repair and replace it.
6.
If new gutters and downspouts are needed, install them so that no architectural features are lost or damaged. Retain the shape of traditional half-round gutters and downspouts if replacing them.
7.
One shall not replace concealed, built-in gutter systems with exposed gutters.
8.
One shall not introduce new roof features such as skylights, dormers, or vents if they will compromise the historic roof design, or damage character-defining roof materials or the character of the historic district.
9.
One shall not install ventilators, solar collectors, antenna, skylights, or mechanical equipment in locations that compromise character defining roofs or on roof slopes prominently visible from the street.
10.
One shall not install exposed tarpaper rolls as a finished roofing material or roofing tar as a replacement for valley flashing.
11.
One shall not patch any roofing or flashing with tar or asphalt product.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the metal, wooden, and masonry elements of historic roofs through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect for signs of deterioration and moisture penetration.
2.
Clean gutters and downspouts to ensure proper drainage.
3.
Replace deteriorated flashing as necessary.
4.
Reapply appropriate protective coats to metal roofs as necessary.
5.
Maintain adequate ventilation of roof sheathing to prevent moisture damage.
6.
Ensure that roofing materials are adequately anchored to resist wind and water.
7.
Re-fasten loose (or replace damaged) shingles, slates, or tiles.
b.
Repair historic roofs and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for resetting or reinforcing.
F.
Exterior walls:
1.
Retain and preserve exterior walls that contribute to the overall historic form and character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as cornices, foundations, bays, quoins, arches, water tables, brackets, and entablatures.
2.
Retain and preserve exterior wall materials that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including brickwork, stucco, stone, wooden shingles, wooden siding, asbestos siding, and metal, wooden, or masonry trim work.
3.
Repair exterior wall surfaces, details, and features using recognized preservation repair methods for the surface material or coating.
4.
If the replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an exterior wall is necessary, replace only the deteriorated portion in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, pattern, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If replacement of an entire exterior wall or feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace it in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
6.
If an exterior wall or feature is completely missing, replace it with a new wall or feature based on accurate documentation of the original or new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
7.
One shall not introduce new features such as window or door openings, bays, vents, balconies, or chimneys to character-defining exterior walls if this will compromise the architectural integrity of the building.
8.
One shall not remove or cover any material detail associated with exterior walls, including decorative shingles, panels, brackets, bargeboards, and corner boards unless supported by historic documentation.
9.
One shall not cover historic wall material, including wooden siding, wooden shingles, stucco, brick, and stonework, with coatings or contemporary substitute materials.
10.
It is not appropriate to introduce features or details to an exterior wall that would create a false historical appearance.
G.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Driveways, walkways and off-street parking should be gravel, brick, concrete, or paved with appropriate textured asphalt.
b.
Care should be taken not to injure nearby trees by intruding on the root areas.
c.
Design new driveways, walkways to be compatible in location, spacing, configuration, and dimension with existing walkways and driveways that contribute to the overall historic character of the district.
d.
One shall not locate new parking areas where they are visible from the street, or to significantly alter the proportion of built area to yard area.
e.
One shall not locate parking where it will obstruct the principal structure.
H.
Lighting:
1.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Lighting of walkways, driveways and off-street parking shall retain and preserve mechanically sound exterior fixtures that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, site or streetscape.
b.
If replacing missing or deteriorated historical exterior fixtures, replace with fixtures that are similar in appearance, scale, and material to the original.
c.
The introduction of indiscriminate permanent area lighting, illuminating facades of houses with harsh floodlight, or creating a runway effect with multiple footlights along front walks is not allowed unless approved by the Commission.
I.
Windows and doors:
1.
Retain and preserve windows that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, sash, muntins, sills, heads, moldings, surrounds, hardware, shutters, and blinds.
2.
Retain and preserve doors that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including their functional and decorative features, such as frames, glazing, panels, sidelights, fanlights, surrounds, thresholds, and hardware.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door feature or detail is necessary, replace only the deteriorated feature in kind rather than the entire unit. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of a deteriorated window or door unit is necessary, replace the unit in kind, matching the design and dimension of the original sash or panels, pane configuration, architectural trim, detailing, and materials. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a window or a door is completely missing, replace it with a new unit based on accurate documentation of the original or a new design compatible with the original opening and the historic character of the building.
6.
Replace deteriorated or missing wooden shutters with historically appropriate wooden shutters sized to fit the opening. Do not introduce shutters on a historic building if no evidence of earlier shutters exists.
7.
If additional windows and doors are necessary for a new use, install them on a rear or non-character-defining facade of the building, but only if they do not compromise the architectural integrity of the building. Design such units to be compatible with the overall design of the building, but not to duplicate the original.
8.
One shall not remove original doors, windows, shutters, hardware, and without approval from the Commission.
9.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with windows and doors, such as stained glass, beveled glass, textured glass, or tracery, unless supported by historic documentation.
10.
One shall not use snap-in muntins to create false divided-light appearance.
11.
One shall not replace clear glazing with tinted or opaque glazing.
12.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
Protect and maintain the wood and metal elements of historic windows and doors through appropriate methods:
1.
Inspect regularly for deterioration, moisture damage, air infiltration, paint failure, and corrosion.
2.
Clean the surface using the gentlest means possible.
3.
Limit paint removal and reapply protective coatings as necessary.
4.
Reglaze sash as necessary to prevent moisture infiltration.
5.
Weather-strip windows and doors to reduce air infiltration and increase energy efficiency.
b.
Repair historic windows and doors and their distinctive features through recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
c.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with the existing meeting rail.
d.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door and frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors are not appropriate.
e.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
J.
Entrances, porches, and balconies:
1.
Retain and preserve entrances, porches, and balconies that contribute to the overall historic character of a building, including such functional and decorative elements as columns, pilasters, piers, entablatures, balustrades, sidelights, fanlights, transoms, steps, railings, floors, and ceilings.
2.
When repairing historic entrances, porches, balconies and their distinctive features and materials, use recognized preservation methods for patching, consolidating, splicing, and reinforcing.
3.
If replacement of a deteriorated detail or element of an entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary, replace only the deteriorated detail or element in kind rather than the entire feature. Match the original in design, dimension, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
4.
If replacement of an entire entrance, porch or balcony feature is necessary because of deterioration, replace in kind, matching the original in design, dimension, detail, texture, and material. Use compatible substitute materials as determined by the Commission only if using original materials is not technically feasible.
5.
If a feature or an entire entrance, porch or balcony is missing, replace it with a feature based on accurate historic documentation or a new design compatible with the historic character of the building and the district.
6.
One shall not enclose a front porch or balcony without approval from the Commission.
7.
One shall not remove any detail material associated with entrances and porches, such as graining, spindle-work, beveled glass, or beaded board, unless supported by historic documentation.
8.
One shall not remove an original entrance or porch or add a new entrance or porch on a primary facade.
9.
One shall not introduce features or details to a historic entrance, porch or balcony that would create a false historical appearance.
K.
Utilities and energy retrofit:
1.
If a new mechanical system is needed, install it so that it causes the least amount of alteration to the building's exterior facades, historic building fabric, and site features.
2.
Increase the thermal efficiency of historic buildings by observing appropriate traditional practices, such as weather stripping and caulking, and by introducing energy-efficient features, such as awnings, operable shutters, and storm windows and doors, where appropriate.
3.
Retain and preserve the inherent energy-conserving features of historic buildings and their sites, including shade trees, porches, awnings, and operable windows, transoms, shutters, and blinds.
4.
Locate portable window air-conditioning units on rear facades or inconspicuous side facades.
5.
During rehabilitation and/or repair which requires a Certificate of Preservation, the following standards shall be observed:
a.
If desired, introduce narrow-profile exterior or interior storm windows so that they do not obscure or damage the existing sash and frame. Select exterior storm windows with a painted or baked-enamel finish that is compatible with the sash. For double-hung windows, operable storm window dividers should align with existing meeting rails.
b.
If desired, introduce full-light storm doors constructed of wood or aluminum that do not obscure or damage the existing door or frame. Select storm doors with a painted, stained, or baked-enamel finished that is compatible with the existing door. Bare aluminum storm doors and storm windows are not appropriate.
c.
If desired and where historically appropriate, install fabric awnings over window, door or porch openings with care to ensure that historic features are not damaged or obscured.
d.
In general, the introduction of underground utility lines to reduce the intrusion of additional overhead lines and poles is encouraged. However, in trenching, take care to avoid archaeological resources and the roots of trees.
L.
Accessibility, health, and safety considerations:
1.
In considering changes to a historic building, review accessibility and life safety code implications to determine if the proposed change is compatible with the building's historic character and setting or will compromise them.
2.
Meet accessibility and life-safety building code requirements in such a way that the historic building's character-defining facades, features, and finishes are preserved.
3.
Determine appropriate solutions to accessibility with input from the Commission, historic preservation specialists and local disability groups.
4.
Introduce new or additional means of access that are reversible and that do not compromise the original design of a historic entrance or porch.
5.
Work with code officials to explore alternative methods of equal or superior effectiveness in meeting safety code requirements while preserving significant historic features.
6.
Locate fire doors, exterior fire stairs, or elevator additions on side or rear facades. Design such elements to be compatible in character, materials, scale, proportion, and finish with the historic building.
M.
Aesthetic recommendations:
1.
Survey in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
2.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip lines of trees.
3.
Limit the size and scale of an addition in relationship to the historic building so that it does not diminish or visually overpower the building.
PART TWO-ADDITIONS AND NEW BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
A.
Additions to historic buildings:
1.
Design an addition to be compatible with the historic building in mass, materials, and relationship of solids to windows and doors in the exterior walls, yet make the addition discernible from the original.
2.
One shall not construct an addition if it will detract from the overall historic character of the principal building and the site, or if it will require the removal of a significant building element or site feature.
3.
One shall not construct an addition that significantly changes the proportion of built mass to open space on the individual site.
4.
Construct new additions so that there is the least possible loss of historic fabric and so that the character-defining features of the historic building are not destroyed, damaged, or obscured.
5.
Design new additions so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and view are retained.
6.
Locate a new addition on an inconspicuous elevation of the historic building, usually the rear one.
B.
New building construction:
1.
New site construction shall be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of orientation, and distance from adjacent buildings.
2.
Design new construction so that the overall character of the site, site topography, character-defining site features, trees, and significant district vistas and views are retained.
3.
Evaluate in advance and limit any disturbance to the site's terrain during construction to minimize the possibility of destroying unknown archaeological resources.
4.
Design new buildings to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the overall character of the historic district in terms of height, form, size, scale, massing, proportion, and roof shape.
5.
Design the proportion of the proposed new building's front facade to be compatible with the front facade proportion of surrounding buildings.
6.
Design the spacing, placement, scale, orientation, proportion, and size of window and door openings in proposed new construction to be compatible with surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
7.
Select windows and doors for proposed new building that are compatible in material, subdivision, proportion, pattern, and detail with the windows and the doors of surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district.
8.
Select materials and finishes for proposed new buildings that are compatible with historic materials and finishes found in surrounding buildings that contribute to the special character of the historic district in terms of composition, scale, module, pattern, detail, texture, finish and sheen.
9.
Design new buildings so that they are compatible with, but discernible from, historic buildings in the district.
Recommendations:
1.
Protect large trees and other significant site features from immediate damage during construction and from delayed damage due to construction activities, such as loss of root area or compaction of the soil by equipment. It is especially critical to avoid compaction of the soil within the drip line of trees.
PART THREE—RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES
1.
Before moving a historic structure, document its original setting and context. Use photographs, site plans, or other graphic or written statements to record existing site conditions.
2.
Enlist contractors experienced in moving historic buildings to do the following:
a.
Determine the structural condition of the property before the move.
b.
Coordinate the move with the utility companies and appropriate city departments.
c.
Protect the structure from vandalism or weather damage before, during and after the move.
d.
Minimize structural damage during the move.
3.
Relocate a structure within the historic district only if it is determined to be architecturally compatible with the adjacent buildings according to the guidelines for new construction.
4.
Relocate a structure on a site within a historic district according to new construction guidelines for siting, orientation, plantings, and other pertinent aspects of site and setting.
5.
Ensure that the relocation of a structure will not diminish or damage existing historic district buildings or the overall character of the district. Pay particular attention to the tree canopy along the route of the move.
6.
Provide the HPC with site plan information for the proposed site features and plantings of the new setting, including information on accessory buildings, driveways, site lighting, and parking areas.
7.
If the original site of the structure to be relocated is within a historic district, before the move, submit to the Commission a site plan for proposed site features and plantings of the original site after the relocation.
8.
Protect significant site features of the original site, the new site, and the route of the move during relocation.
PART FOUR—DEMOLITION
1.
Before demolition, submit a site plan to the Commission illustrating proposed site development or plantings to follow demolition.
2.
During demolition, ensure the safety of any adjacent properties and historic resources. Also, during and after demolition, protect the trees on the site from damage due to compaction of the soil by equipment or materials.
3.
After demolition, clear the site promptly and thoroughly.
4.
After demolition, plant or develop the site promptly as approved in the proposed site plan.
(e)
Effective date. This district shall become effective on February 1, 2010.
(Ord. No. 03-10, § 2, 1-7-10; Ord. No. 07-20, § 1, 3-5-20)
