ARTICLE VI. - PUB CRAWLS

Sec. 4-220. - Purpose.
(a)
Unregulated pub crawl events pose a risk to public health and safety and increase the likelihood of underage drinking and drunk and disorderly conduct.
(b)
Rules and regulations mitigate these risks and provide a safe environment and maintain the public safety.
(c)
The City of Cartersville, by regulating pub crawl events, maintains a legitimate and compelling state interest to ensure public safety and welfare of persons who participate in pub crawl events as well as the general public.
(Ord. No. 21-20, § 1, 3-5-20; Ord. No. 24-20, § 1, 10-1-20)
Sec. 4-221. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings:
Coordinator means a person over the age of twenty-one (21) stationed at a particular licensed establishment participating in a pub crawl event.
Establishment means an establishment in the City of Cartersville having a pouring license or being a licensed microbrewer to serve alcoholic beverages.
Organizer means the downtown development authority or anyone who contracts or is designated by one (1) or more alcohol establishments for the purpose of organizing, controlling, and advertising increasing notoriety and popularity of a pub crawl event.
Pub crawl event means a one-time event scheduled for October 30—31, 2020. A group of establishments participating in the promotion of an event featuring the sale or service of alcoholic beverages at more than one (1) licensed establishment during a specified time period, said participants are allowed to have open containers during the hours of the pub crawl as defined in the approval application pursuant to the requirements herein.
(Ord. No. 21-20, § 1, 3-5-20; Ord. No. 24-20, § 1, 10-1-20)
Sec. 4-222. - Pub crawl license.
(a)
In order to hold a pub crawl event, all participating establishments must hire or designate one (1) person to serve as organizer of the event and each establishment must designate one (1) or more coordinators to be present on their premises for the entire duration of the event.
(b)
Prior to holding the pub crawl event, an organizer must obtain a pub crawl license from the planning and development department director or his/her designee. The organizer must provide to the planning and development director or his/her designee the following:
(1)
The names and addresses of all licensed establishments expected to participate;
(2)
The location(s) and/or geographic area(s) where the event will take place;
(3)
The actual hours of the event;
(4)
The operational plan and security plan, which shall include:
a.
The name and number of security personnel contracted for the event;
b.
A plan for controlling underage drinking; and
c.
The method to be used for checking participant's identification.
(5)
The location of the designated registration area(s);
(6)
The number of tickets they intend to sell or anticipated number of participants;
(7)
A silicone container clearly labeled and within the labeling indicating that it is for the pub crawl only, as approved by the planning and development director; and
(8)
Include a map to be provided to each participant; and
(9)
To require the organizer to have two (2) off-duty police officers for a four-hour minimum, to monitor the event.
(c)
No establishment whose license has been suspended for one (1) day or more for a violation of section 4-13 and section 4-21 within the previous year may participate in a pub crawl event.
(d)
Establishments that serve food are required to have food available either for purchase or as a part of the event during the hours of the pub crawl event.
(e)
All advertising and promotional materials for pub crawl events shall include the statement "You must be twenty-one (21) or older to participate in this event."
(f)
The issuance of a pub crawl license shall be solely at the discretion of the planning and development director. The planning and development director may place restrictions upon the hours, participating licensed establishments, and the nature and size of the pub crawl events held under the license in order to protect the public safety.
(g)
The City of Cartersville may fine, suspend, or revoke the pub crawl license and/or any participating licensed establishments if the organizer and/or licensed establishments:
(1)
Fails to control the area;
(2)
Has sustained community complaints or police action.
(3)
Fails to comply with the terms of its pub crawl license; or
(4)
Otherwise violates this Code relating to alcohol sales.
(5)
Hearings shall be before the alcohol control board pursuant to their requirements in article V of this chapter.
(h)
A licensed establishment shall not be permitted to participate in more than one (1) pub crawl event at any one (1) time.
(i)
The pub crawl event shall be permitted as recommended by the Cartersville Downtown Development Authority and shall be limited to the boundaries of the downtown business district, and microbreweries, adjacent to said district.
(Ord. No. 21-20, § 1, 3-5-20; Ord. No. 24-20, § 1, 10-1-20)
Sec. 4-223. - Penalties.
(a)
Violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
(b)
Any violation of this section shall be adjudicated and disposed of by the Municipal Court of the City of Cartersville, pursuant to state law.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall preclude the imposition of other civil and/or criminal penalties for other violations as permitted under state and/or local law, including the suspension and/or revocation of a license after a hearing by the alcohol control board.
(Ord. No. 21-20, § 1, 3-5-20; Ord. No. 24-20, § 1, 10-1-20)
