Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Cartersville, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1976, § 1-1001)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be applied, unless any such application is inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision, it shall be held to state the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than other provisions of the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be controlling.
City. "City" means the City of Cartersville, Georgia.
Code. "Code" means the Code of Ordinances of the City of Cartersville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. The time within which any act is to be done, as provided in any provision of this Code or in any order issued pursuant to any provision of this Code, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight shall be excluded.
Council or city council. "Council" or "city council" means the City Council of the City of Cartersville, Georgia.
County. "County" means Bartow County, Georgia.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to entities lacking gender as well as to males.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
May. The word "may" shall be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
Must. The word "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular.
Oath. "Oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, e.g., "city clerk," "chief of police," they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of the city.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Shall. The word "shall" shall be construed as mandatory.
Shall have been. The words "shall have been" include past and future cases.
Signature, subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" means the mark of a person who cannot write.
State. "State" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and all parts thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Superior court. "Superior Court" means the Superior Court of Bartow County, Georgia.
Technical and nontechnical words. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common or standard usage of the language. Technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Tense. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present and past.
(Code 1976, § 1-1002)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes, etc.; references to code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of such sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form as provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to be chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1976, § 1-1003)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1976, § 1-1004)
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "Section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Cartersville, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows: ___________ (Set out new provisions in full) ___________."
(c)
When the council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not theretofore existing in the Code, which the council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the city council and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Cartersville, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1976, § 1-1006)
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act, if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months, or both. With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
(f)
Community service may be substituted or the fine with the rate of hourly work set to that of the federal minimum wage.
(Code 1976, § 1-1008; Ord. No. 33-12, § 1, 8-2-12)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1976, § 1-1005)
Sec. 1-8. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money.
(2)
Authorizing the issuance of bonds or any evidence of indebtedness.
(3)
Authorizing or approving a contract.
(4)
Granting a franchise.
(5)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving or widening any street or public way.
(6)
Establishing or altering the grades of any street.
(7)
Approving a budget.
(8)
Levying or imposing taxes that are not codified in this Code.
(9)
Establishing salaries or other benefits for officers or employees of the city that are not codified in this Code.
(10)
Dealing with special assessments.
(11)
Annexing property into the city.
(12)
Dealing with subdivisions or zoning.
(13)
Whose purpose has been accomplished.
(14)
That is special although permanent in effect.
(15)
That is temporary although general in effect.
(16)
That amends the City Charter.
Sec. 1-9. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
