ARTICLE III. - EMPLOYEES

Sec. 4-150. - Investigations of certain prospective employees.
A license holder, before employing any person for the sale or handling of malt beverages or wine and distilled spirits shall submit such prospective employee's name to the chief of police, who shall make such investigation as he may deem necessary as to the qualification of such prospective employee before issuing a handler's permit for such person. Such person must be able to read and write the English language; shall not have been convicted, within five (5) years of the date of the application, of a felony or any violation of the laws of this state or any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages in an establishment that sells alcoholic beverages, and after being issued a license, any charge for selling alcoholic beverages to a minor; and shall not have had revoked, for cause, such as a violation of regulations or improper operation, within five (5) years next preceding his application, any license issued to him by any state, county or municipality to sell alcoholic liquor or malt beverages of any kind.
(Ord. No. 81-05, § I, 10-6-05; Ord. No. 08-10, § 18, 3-18-10)
Sec. 4-151. - Employee identification cards.
(a)
Any person, including the licensee, who works in a pouring outlet or package wine outlet shop which provides wine samples selling, pouring, serving alcoholic beverages or providing samples shall apply to the police department for a distilled spirits and/or malt beverage and wine employee identification card, which card shall expire on the person's birthday and be renewable on or before that time. The fee for the initial card shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00). The fee for a replacement card shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00). The fee for renewal of such card shall be ten dollars ($10.00). In the event that a renewal of such card is late, an additional fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) will be assessed for all renewals after the renewal date for each individual. Fees shall be paid to the City of Cartersville Police Department.
(b)
While on duty in a pouring outlet or package wine shop, every person required to hold an employee identification card under subsection (a), shall visibly wear his employee identification card on their person at all times.
(c)
Pouring outlet or package wine shop employees shall make themselves available for photographing, fingerprinting and such other investigating as may be required by the police department.
(d)
The police department shall investigate the employee applicants. A distilled spirits and beer/wine pouring employee or package wine outlet employee identification card shall not be issued to any person who has pled guilty to, or has been convicted of a felony within the last five (5) years; shall not have been convicted, within five (5) years of the date of the application, of a felony or any violation of the laws of this state or any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor or malt beverages; in an establishment that sells, serves, or distributes alcoholic beverages, after being issued a license any charge for selling/pricing alcoholic beverages to a minor; and shall not have had revoked, for cause, such as a violation of regulations or improper operation, within five (5) years next preceding his application, any license issued to him by any state, county or municipality to sell alcoholic liquor or malt beverages of any kind. The police department shall report any other detrimental information about an application to the alcohol control board, and may prohibit the issuance of a distilled spirits and beer/wine pouring identification card where the applicant's record indicates such employment would adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare, or violate the law.
(e)
No licensee under the provisions of this article shall hire any person, nor any person to work or assist in a pouring outlet or package wine outlet until such person has procured a distilled spirits and/or malt beverage and wine employee identification card.
(f)
The police department may provisionally grant an identification to an applicant, pending investigation and report. Where the report, when reviewed, is unfavorable as set out in subsection (d), the department may revoke the card and demand its return.
(g)
The police department may, after reasonable notice and hearing (unless waived), revoke an identification card and demand its surrender where the employee violates the provisions of this article, or becomes one who adversely affects the public health, safety and welfare.
(h)
It shall be unlawful for an employee whose card has been revoked, and upon whom demand for surrender of a card has been made, to refuse to so surrender, or to alter, conceal, deface or destroy the card.
(Ord. No. 81-05, § I, 10-6-05; Ord. No. 59-06, § 1, 8-3-06; Ord. No. 08-10, § 19, 3-18-10)
Sec. 4-152. - Employment of minors.
No retail dealer or pouring outlet shall employ, require or permit persons under eighteen (18) years of age to sell or take orders for any distilled spirits and malt beverage and wine.
(Ord. No. 81-05, § I, 10-6-05)
Secs. 4-153—4-174. - Reserved.
