Chapter 18 - POLICE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alarm systems, Ch. 3; false alarms, etc., § 11-116 et seq.; personnel, Ch. 16; police retirement age, § 16-55.
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; employment and training of police, O.C.G.A. 35-8-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Chief of police generally.
(a)
The chief of police is the chief executive officer of the police department and is responsible for the general administration and supervision of the department.
(b)
The chief of police shall also serve as city marshal.
(c)
In case of sickness of the chief of police, or his absence from the city, the public safety director may designate any member of the police force to discharge the duties of the chief of police during such sickness or absence.
(d)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police at all times of the day or night to preserve the public peace; prevent the commission of crime and arrest offenders; protect the rights of persons and property; regard the public health; provide proper police at fires and protect the firemen and property thereat; protect strangers and travelers; enforce obedience to all ordinances of the council which are applicable to police or health; see that the ordinances, rules and regulations of the council are carried into effect; and discharge such other duties as may be required of him by such ordinances.
(e)
He shall attend all regular meetings of the council and all called meetings when notified.
(f)
The chief of police shall be held responsible for the good order of the city and the general conduct of the officers and men of the police force. It is enjoined on him to pay frequent visits to various portions of the city at uncertain hours, and thus be able to supervise the conduct of officers and men.
(g)
It shall be the duty of the chief of police as marshal to collect the taxes and revenues of the city by levy and sale, where execution is issued therefor as provided by law, and likewise to collect by levy and sale any other claim or demand due the city, where execution is issued therefor as provided by law, and to execute any and all legal process issued by the city or its proper officers under the law.
(Code 1976, §§ 3-2001, 3-2002)
Sec. 18-2. - Keeping lost or stolen property.
All stolen or lost property that may be found, or come into possession of a policeman shall be carried to the city hall and delivered to the chief of police. The property shall be marked so as to be easily identified and kept by the chief of police until properly disposed of by the city authorities as may be prescribed by ordinance or by order of the council.
(Code 1976, § 3-2004)
Sec. 18-3. - Acceptance of gratuities.
No policeman shall accept from any person while in custody, any gift, gratuity or reward, nor shall he receive any reward for his services except by permission of the city manager, or the council.
(Code 1976, § 3-2005)
Sec. 18-4. - Misuse of office.
Any policeman who shall be convicted of using his office with malice to oppress, persecute or annoy any person, or who shall fail to comply with the rules and regulations of this chapter or of his general duties, shall be suspended or dismissed from the force.
(Code 1976, § 3-2006)
Sec. 18-5. - Enforcement of ordinances on private property.
The police may enforce the ordinances of the city on private property.
(Code 1976, § 3-2010)
Sec. 18-6. - Arrest of offenders; confinement; bond.
The chief of police or policeman shall arrest and confine in the county jail any offender against the laws and ordinances of the city, where in their judgment, such arrest and confinement is necessary to secure the offender's appearance before the court, to answer the charge against him, or to preserve the peace of the city. The arresting officer or another officer designated by the chief of police may accept an appearance bond from the offender pursuant to provisions of Chapter 13.
(Code 1976, § 3-2009)
Sec. 18-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 24-06, § 1, adopted May 4, 2006, repealed § 18-7, which pertained to miscellaneous fees and derived from Ord. No. 17-00, § 5, 6-1-00.
Secs. 18-8—18-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERSONAL PROPERTY: STORAGE AND LIEN[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 9-90, §§ 1—6, adopted May 31, 1990, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion herein as Art. II, §§ 18-21—18-26, was at the discretion of the editor. Sections 18-1—18-6 have been designated as Art. I by the editor.

Sec. 18-21. - Title.
This article will be known as the "storage fee and lien ordinance."
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 1, 5-31-90)
Sec. 18-22. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to provide for the imposition of storage fees on personal property turned over to, found by, or held by the City of Cartersville, for notice to those claiming ownership, and authorization for disposition of such property.
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 2, 5-31-90)
Sec. 18-23. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:
City. The City of Cartersville.
Notice. A notice required under this article shall constitute:
(1)
A letter or postcard mailed addressed to the individual known to be the owner of any personal property held, however; as to any property with a value of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more, the notice shall be by first class mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall also include the date the property came into the possession of the city, if known, the date storage charges begin, the name of the person or officer who will handle claims for such property, and that the item or items will be sold any time after sixty (60) days from the date such property comes into the possession of the city.
(2)
A notice published in the legal organ of Bartow County stating generally the nature of personal property held by the city, that storage charges are accruing, the name of the person or officer who will handle claims for such property, and that such property is subject to sale sixty (60) days after coming into the possession of the city.
Personal property held. Items of personal property held include items turned over to any city employee as lost, reportedly stolen, found by any city employee, or items of evidence in cases dismissed or otherwise finally concluded.
Personal property not covered by this article. Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Weapons used during the commission of a crime;
(2)
Contraband as defined by any ordinance of the city or statute of the State of Georgia;
(3)
Personal property subject to libel proceedings as a result of its use or acquisition as a part of any racketeering or drug activity;
(4)
Personal property that is evidence in any pending criminal proceeding in any court until thirty (30) days after such proceeding is final;
(5)
Cash.
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 3, 5-31-90; Ord. No. 35-90, 12-27-90)
Sec. 18-24. - Procedure for handling personal property held.
(a)
Any items of personal property held by any department or official of the city shall be turned over to the police department.
(b)
The police department shall maintain a listing of all personal property held. The list shall include the date turned over to the police department, the person or department turning the property in, the owner or address of origin, if known.
(c)
The police department, or such city employee as designated by the public safety commissioner, shall send a written notice to any known owner of personal property held by the city. The public safety commissioner shall cause a notice to appear in the legal organ of Bartow County, once each month, listing the types of personal property held by the city, since the preceding notice.
(d)
The police department may release property to such persons claiming to be an owner on proof of ownership, bill of sale, purchase receipt or title and payment of any accrued storage fees.
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 4, 5-31-90)
Sec. 18-25. - Imposition of storage fee and lien.
(a)
The city shall charge a fee of one dollar ($1.00) per day for each item of personal property held in the possession of the police department, beginning on the thirty-first day such property is held.
(b)
Any storage fee incurred for any personal property held shall be a lien against that property.
(c)
Any costs incurred in attempting to locate the owner of personal property held shall be a lien against such property. Such costs shall include any credit reports, postage, and proportionate shares of any newspaper advertisement announcing that the city is holding said property.
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 5, 5-31-90)
Sec. 18-26. - Foreclosure of lien.
(a)
The city may file a claim of lien with the municipal court for any personal property held by the city for which storage charges have accrued for more than thirty (30) days. Such claim shall include an itemized list of all property, the date it came into possession of the city, the amount of the storage fee, and a copy of the notice mailed or advertised when the owner is unknown.
(b)
The municipal court judge shall enter an order foreclosing the lien and setting a date for auction. A notice shall then be published in the legal organ of Bartow County stating the date of auction and the items to be sold. The date of the auction shall be not less than ten (10) days from the date of the order.
(c)
Sale of personal property held by the city shall be conducted in accordance with auction procedures for the city.
(d)
Any item of personal property held by the city may be redeemed between the order of foreclosure and date of sale by proof of ownership, bill of sale, or title and the payment of the accrued storage fees together with twenty-five dollars ($25.00) court costs.
(Ord. No. 9-90, § 6, 5-31-90)
