ARTICLE VII. - USED AUTO PARTS AND SALVAGE DEALERS

Sec. 10-181. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Business premises or premises means the area of a salvage yard as described in a salvage dealer's license or application for license, as provided for in this article.
Itinerant salvage dealer means an individual who buys, sells, collects or delivers salvage within the city as a business or employment within the city, but who is not an operator of a salvage yard within the city or an employee of such an operator.
Salvage means old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals; old cordage, ropes, rags, fibers or fabrics; old rubber; old bottles or other glass; bones; wastepaper and other waste or discarded material that might be prepared to be used again in some form; and motor vehicles, no longer used as such, to be used for scrap metal or stripping of parts; but "salvage" shall not include materials or objects accumulated by a person as byproducts, waste or scraps from the operation of his own business or materials or objects held and used by a manufacturer as an integral part of his own manufacturing processes.
Salvage dealer means a person who operates a salvage yard within the city.
Salvage yard means a yard, lot or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building, containing salvage, upon which occurs one (1) or more acts of buying keeping, dismantling, processing, selling, or offering for sale any such salvage, in whole units or by parts, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such act or acts are to be used for charity.
(Code 1976, § 7-3031)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-182. - License.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a salvage dealer in the city, without first having obtained a license therefor from the director of planning and development. A salvage dealer who operates more than one (1) salvage yard within the city shall be required to have in effect a separate license for each yard.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any individual to act as an itinerant salvage dealer in the city without first having obtained a license therefor from the director of planning and development.
(c)
Any salvage dealer licensed under this article shall keep the license plainly displayed on his business premises. Any itinerant salvage dealer shall have the license issued to him in his immediate possession at all times when he is acting as an itinerant salvage dealer in the city and shall exhibit it to any person upon request.
(d)
The city council may revoke or suspend any such license if, pursuant to notice and hearing as provided in this section, it determines that any of the following grounds exist:
(1)
The licensee or any agent or officer of the licensee who takes part in the operation of the licensed business is not of good character or reputation or is not capable of operating the licensed business or carrying on the licensed activity in a manner consistent with public health, safety and good morals.
(2)
The licensee has failed to comply with the provisions of this article or with any provision of law applicable to the premises, equipment or operation of the licensed business.
(3)
The licensee has obtained his license through any fraud or misstatement.
(4)
The licensed business is being conducted in a manner detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the public, or is a nuisance, or is being operated or carried on in any unlawful manner.
(5)
The licensed business is no longer being operated or carried on. The city council shall cause a hearing to be had, not less than ten (10) days after notice to the licensee that grounds for revocation or suspension of a license exist. At such hearing, the licensee shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall have the right to subpoena such witnesses as he may desire to testify.
(Code 1976, §§ 7-3032, 7-3033(a)(1), (b)(7), 7-3035; Ord. No. 28-92, § IX, 9-20-92; Ord. No. 28-98, 8-13-98; Ord. No. 51-08, § 1, 12-4-08)
Sec. 10-183. - Inspections.
The city council or its duly authorized representatives shall inspect the salvage yards of all salvage dealers licensed under this division at least twice a year to determine whether such yards are being operated in accordance with the provisions of this article and with other applicable provisions of law.
(Code 1976, § 7-3034)
Sec. 10-184. - General operating requirements—Salvage dealers.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all salvage dealers licensed in accordance with the provisions of this article:
(1)
The licensee shall maintain the salvage yard in such manner that it will not constitute a hazard to the health or safety of the neighborhood, and shall take such reasonable precautions and measures as may be prescribed by the county health department for the control of vermin, mosquitoes, weeds, vegetation, refuse, garbage and places likely to form breeding grounds or habitats for vermin or insects.
(2)
No space not covered by the license shall be used in the licensed business.
(3)
No salvage shall be allowed to rest upon or protrude over any public street, walkway or curb, or to be scattered or blown off the business premises.
(4)
Salvage shall be stored in piles not exceeding ten (10) feet in height and shall be arranged so as to permit easy access to all such salvage for firefighting purposes, except for temporary storage for shipment.
(5)
No combustible material of any kind not necessary or beneficial to the licensed business shall be kept on the premises. The premises shall not be allowed to become a fire hazard.
(6)
No salvage or other material shall be burned on the premises in any incinerator not meeting the requirements of the building code; and no salvage or other material shall be burned on the premises in the open except in accordance with law.
(7)
No noisy processing of salvage or other noisy activity shall be carried on in connection with the licensed business on Sunday, Christmas, Thanksgiving, or on any day between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(8)
The area on the premises where salvage is kept outdoors shall be enclosed, except for entrances and exits, with a solid, vertical wall or opaque wire mesh fence of a minimum height of eight (8) feet measured from ground level; provided, however that salvage yards in existence on April 6, 1967, shall cause existing fences, regardless of height, to be made opaque, and except as otherwise provided, compliance with state and federal laws respecting the fencing of salvage yards, also known as junkyards, within the area governed by said laws, shall be deemed to be in compliance with this paragraph. Entrances and exits shall not be wider or more numerous than reasonably necessary for the conduct of the licensed business.
(9)
The licensee shall permit inspection of the business premises by any member or representative of a member of the city council at any reasonable time.
(10)
No salvage dealer or his agent or employee shall purchase or receive any salvage for use in the licensed business from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the written consent of a parent or guardian of such person. Such writing shall be held available for inspection by any member or representative of a member of the city council for a period of at least two (2) years.
(11)
Each acquisition of salvage shall be recorded in English in a permanent-type register kept on the business premises, giving the name and residence address of the person from whom the acquisition was made, a description of the salvage acquired, and the date of the transaction. Such data shall be held available for inspection by any member or representative of a member of the city council for a period of at least two (2) years.
(Code 1976, § 7-3033(a)(2)—(12))
Sec. 10-185. - Same—Itinerant salvage dealers.
The following general operating requirements shall apply to all itinerant salvage dealers licensed in accordance with this article:
(1)
He shall not purchase or receive any salvage from any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the written consent of a parent or guardian of such person. He shall retain such writing for a period of at least two (2) years, and shall produce it within a reasonable time upon the request of any member or representative of a member of the city council.
(2)
He shall record in English in a permanent-type register each acquisition of salvage within the city, giving the name and residence address of the person from whom the acquisition was made, a description of the salvage acquired, and the date of the transaction. He shall retain such data for a period of at least two (2) years, and shall produce them within a reasonable time upon the request of any member or representative of a member of the city council.
(Code 1976, § 7-3033(b)(2), (3))
Secs. 10-186—10-200. - Reserved.
