Chapter 7 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; cemeteries generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 7-1—7-15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL CEMETERY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— City as trustee of cemetery funds, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-4.

Sec. 7-16. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department means the public works department of the city.
Municipal cemetery or cemetery means the municipal cemetery of the city.
Superintendent means the public works director or his designee.
(Code 1976, § 6-1002)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 7-17. - Duties of superintendent.
(a)
Direct cemetery. The superintendent shall look after and take proper care of the cemetery and see that no lot therein is used or occupied in violation of this article or of any rule or regulation promulgated by the department.
(b)
Turn over fees. All fees and charges collected by the superintendent for duties and services performed in connection with the cemetery shall be for the use of the city and shall immediately be turned over by him to the city clerk's office.
(Code 1976, § 6-1007)
Sec. 7-18. - Function of department.
The department shall manage, operate and maintain the municipal cemetery, subject to any limitations and restrictions set forth in this Code or in applicable law.
(Code 1976, § 6-1003)
Sec. 7-19. - Rules and regulations.
The department shall establish rules and regulations for the use of the cemetery relating to:
(1)
Subdividing the cemetery into lots.
(2)
Capacity of each lot.
(3)
Location of graves; and
(4)
Type of plantings, monuments and markers that will be permitted for the proper and most attractive development of the cemetery.
(5)
Said rules shall be kept in the office of the director of public works and be available for the public to review.
(Code 1976, § 6-1005(a); Ord. No. 08-01, 3-1-01)
Sec. 7-20. - Official plan adopted.
The plan of the municipal cemetery entitled "Oak Hill Cemetery" made by A. Cook, January 11, 1921, and the plan of the new addition made by George D. Evans, December, 1928, now on file in the clerk's office, with such additions thereto as may be made by authority of the proper city officials, is adopted as the official plan of the cemetery, subject to such changes as may be made necessary by the sale or transfer of lots. All streets, drives, or other passageways shown thereon shall be kept open and unobstructed. Other plans may be adopted if other locations are used for municipal cemeteries.
(Code 1976, § 6-1004)
Sec. 7-21. - Permission for work required.
All persons are prohibited from doing any work upon any lot of the city cemetery by contract, agreement or otherwise without first obtaining permission from the sexton and/or city manager, provided that this section shall not prohibit lot owners from caring for or keeping their lots in condition.
(Code 1976, § 6-1005(c); Ord. No. 08-01, 3-1-01)
Sec. 7-22. - Rules for interment.
No deceased person shall be interred in the cemetery until the superintendent has found that:
(1)
A burial permit has been obtained from the public health officer as required by law.
(2)
The lot in which burial is to be made has been fully paid for as provided in this article.
(3)
The person arranging for such burial has the right to the use of such lot.
(4)
Such lot is not used beyond its capacity.
(5)
Proper record is made of the name and age of the deceased person and of the exact location of the grave.
(6)
[Reserved.]
(7)
Prior to performing an interment, and prior to the issuance of a burial permit by the city, an escrow deposit, maintenance bond, or an irrevocable standby letter of credit (hereinafter referred to as "surety") which covers the potential damage to the cemetery and lots and related appurtenances, must be provided to the superintendent in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Said bond or letter of credit must be good for thirty (30) days from the date of interment. The city shall accept a surety which is valid for the entire year in lieu of an individual one (1) for each internment. The applicable maintenance period shall commence from the date of internment.
a.
The purpose of the maintenance bonds, irrevocable standby letter of credit, or escrow deposit is as follows:
1.
To protect the property of the cemetery and lot holders.
2.
To insure proper internment procedures are followed.
3.
To insure that no damage to the cemetery, tombstones, grave sites, family plots, or related appurtenances occurs due to the internment.
4.
To provide a guaranty for the warranty and maintenance period for the above items
b.
The maintenance bonds, irrevocable standby letter of credit, and/or escrow deposit shall only be issued in a form approved by the city. The language and term must be approved by the city prior to issuance. The city shall provide forms that it prefers the issuer of the surety to use, however if the surety has its own form, said form shall be approved by the city engineer and attorney prior to the acceptance of the surety. Any irrevocable standby letter of credit or maintenance bond shall be issued by a company or financial institution authorized to transact business in the State of Georgia. Irrevocable standby letters of credit shall be issued in accordance with the current International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) publications governing said letters of credits and must be issued by a bank having a physical branch located in the city, which shall be the place of tender on the draft of said letter of credit. The city reserves the right to reject a surety from a financial institution or insurance company that has proved an unsatisfactory or unresponsive surety in the past. Escrow Deposits shall be good funds deposited in a bank of the city's choosing, pursuant to the escrow instructions issued by the city. The city further reserves the right to demand a specific form of surety in the event that a developer, financial institution, or insurer has provided an unsatisfactory surety in the past or due to the specific requirements or obligations to be contained in the surety.
c.
In each case the surety guarantees compliance with all applicable provisions of the City of Cartersville Code of Ordinances including, but not limited to, the Development Regulations of the City of Cartersville.
d.
If repairs are needed prior to or at the end of the thirty-day maintenance period, the permittee shall be required to make such repairs within ten (10) days or other time period as determined by the superintendent, after written notification by the city. In the opinion of the superintendent if an emergency situation that threatens public safety exists, and the permittee can not complete the repairs in the appropriate time frame, the city may call the surety immediately and complete the project or repairs itself. If the repairs are not completed within said time, and the permittee fails to show a legitimate hardship, as determined by the city, which inhibits the completion of the repairs, the maintenance bond, escrow deposit or irrevocable standby letter of credit shall be called in to pay for the repairs. Should the amount of the maintenance bond or letter of credit be inadequate to pay for the repairs, the permittee shall pay the remaining amount. The following procedures shall apply in this situation:
1.
The city shall notify the permittee in writing of such action.
2.
Upon completion of necessary maintenance repairs, the permittee shall request in writing to the city for inspection of the maintenance repairs. The city shall make said inspection and in turn notify the permittee of the inspection results.
e.
If the work is free from defects, and the improvements are in compliance with city specifications, the city shall provide written approval to the permittee of said compliance and the maintenance bond, escrow deposit, or letter of credit shall be released.
f.
If the surety is ever called to make repairs, the superintendent has the right to deny future internment permits.
(Code 1976, § 6-1008; Ord. No. 51-09, § 1, 12-17-09)
Sec. 7-23. - Lots.
(a)
Charges. Charges for lots shall be as fixed from time to time by the mayor and city council. Current rates effective June 16, 2000 are as follows:
EXPAND
Residents
Inside
City Outside
City
All sections $400.00 $600.00
  (b)
Method of purchase. Any person desiring to purchase a lot for interment shall be permitted to do so upon payment of the price fixed for such lot or upon making arrangements according to rules and regulations established by the department for the purchase of such lot on an installment plan.
(c)
Deeds. All deeds by the city conveying cemetery lots shall be signed in the name of the city by the mayor and the city treasurer and shall have the city corporate seal attached.
(d)
Transfer of title. No sale or transfer of title from one (1) lot owner to another of or to any cemetery lot or part of a lot shall be effective unless authorized by the city manager. No such sale or transfer shall be at a greater price than that for which the lot was purchased from the city.
(Code 1976, § 6-1009; Ord. No. 21-00, 6-15-00)
Sec. 7-24. - Records of ownership.
The department shall keep full and complete records of the ownership of all lots in the cemetery, of the burial capacity of each lot sold or unsold, of the location of each grave, of the name of the person buried in each grave and of the date of burial of each.
(Code 1976, § 6-1010)
Sec. 7-25. - Cemetery accounts.
The department shall keep full and detailed accounts of the receipts and expenditures on account of the cemetery and shall turn over to the city treasurer all moneys collected on such account.
(Code 1976, § 6-1011)
Sec. 7-26. - Special regulations.
The following special regulations apply in the cemetery:
(1)
Funeral flowers will be removed after five (5) days.
(2)
Holiday flowers will be removed after thirty (30) days.
(3)
Oak Hill Cemetery is not responsible for loss, theft, or damage to flower arrangements or containers placed in the cemetery.
(4)
All flowers must be in proper containers and be placed on markers; none will be allowed to be stuck in the ground. Only clay, plastic or recessable type containers for flowers.
(5)
No hanging poles, no bird feeders, no glass containers, no ceramic figurines, no statuary, no concrete pots, no toys, no rocks, no bricks, or any other objects that may be hazardous to personnel or equipment.
(6)
Oak Hill Cemetery reserves the right to remove flower arrangements or containers that are hazardous or badly deteriorated.
(7)
No permanent planting of any kind. The city will plant trees and shrubs as space allows to prevent interfering with other lots in the future.
(8)
Only ground level markers in section 14, lot 441 and lots numbering higher, also any future expansion.
(9)
No new wall shall be erected.
(10)
Only existing walls may be repaired.
(11)
Deteriorating walls, loose brick, etc., may be repaired by the owner or removed by the city if hazardous to employees while working.
(12)
In the event an error is committed in the interment of the remains on any person, the city reserves the right to remove and reinter the remains in such other property of equal value and similar location as may be substituted and conveyed in lieu of the mistaken property.
(13)
A burial vault or grave liner shall be used in all sections of the cemetery and in any additions made to the cemetery, hereafter. Vaults and liners can be made of concrete, steel, plastic, or any other material approved by the cemetery sexton.
(14)
Gates at both entrances will be closed at dusk.
(Code 1976, § 6-1005(a); Ord. No. 08-01, 3-1-01; Ord. No. 17-13, § 1, 8-15-13)
Sec. 7-27. - Trespass unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any grade; to deface, disturb or remove any monument or other marker to any grave or other enclosure or other work placed at or around any grade or cemetery lot for protection or ornament; to destroy or damage any tree, shrub, or flowers that may be planted or growing within the cemetery; or to commit any other trespass within the cemetery.
(Code 1976, § 6-1005(b))
Sec. 7-28. - Traffic control.
(a)
The public works director is authorized to post traffic control signs at the cemetery, including but not limited to directional, stop, turn and speed limit signs.
(b)
Violations of said signs shall be treated as an ordinance violation and said violators shall be subject to the following fine schedule.
EXPAND
1st offense $50.00
2nd offense $100.00
3rd or greater offense $250.00
  (c)
Any police officer of the city may issue a citation for violations thereof.
(Ord. No. 83-05, § 1, 10-20-05)
