ARTICLE XIX. - INTERPRETATION, ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION, AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 19.1. - Interpretation.
The zoning administrator shall interpret the provisions of this chapter, and may utilize opinions of the city attorney and others in arriving at interpretations. Appeals from an interpretation of the zoning administrator shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article XXI of this chapter.
Sec. 19.2. - Administrative variance.
The zoning administrator is authorized by this chapter to consider an appeal for an administrative variance to reduce development standards and/or parking requirements by up to and including thirty (30) percent. In rendering his or her decision, the director shall consider preexisting topographic, geological, hydrological, lot layout, or environmental factors.
To initiate an application for an administrative variance, an application must be submitted to the department of planning and development which shall include the following:
1.
An application form supplied by the department of planning and development must be completed by the applicant.
2.
A nonrefundable fee as indicated on the fee schedule referenced in City of Cartersville Code, section 17-86.
3.
A written narrative explaining and justifying the request.
4.
A plat drawn to scale showing all property lines with dimensions, location of buildings and other structures, north arrow, street numbers, lot and/or parcel number from the Bartow County tax sheet, locations of setback lines or other dimensional requirements from which the administrative variance is sought.
5.
The signatures of the property owner, or his or her authorized representative, and the applicant.
Notification to adjacent property owners. The applicant for said administrative variance shall also give notice of the administrative variance to all property owners adjoining the property for which said administrative variance is sought. Said notice shall be given to each adjoining property owner by first class mail, with proof of mailing obtained from the Post Office. Proof of mailing means either a first class "certificate of mailing" or a first class "certified mail" receipt; a proof of delivery is not required. Only owners reflected on the records of the tax assessors as of the January 1 of the year the application is filed shall be entitled to notice. In determining the adjoining property owners, road, street, or railroad rights-of-way shall be disregarded. Proof of mailing for each recipient shall be provided to the zoning administrator before a decision is rendered. Said notice must be mailed at least seven (7) days prior to the decision of the zoning administrator.
Information in notice to adjacent property owners. The notice required to be served upon adjacent property owners shall contain the following information:
1.
Name and address of the applicant;
2.
Address and location of the property for which the administrative variance is sought;
3.
Current zoning of the property for which the administrative variance is sought;
4.
The administrative variance requested and the reason for the requested administrative variance;
5.
The application file number; and
6.
Contact information for the department of planning and development.
Review for completeness. The planning and development department shall review the application for completeness within seven (7) calendar days of submission. Incomplete or improper applications will be returned to the applicant.
Decision. In rendering a decision on an administrative variance application, the zoning administrator shall consider all information supplied by the applicant. Within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of a completed application for an administrative variance, the zoning administrator shall:
1.
Approve the application as submitted;
2.
Approve the application with conditions; or
3.
Deny the application.
Such administrative variance may be granted in an individual case upon a finding by the zoning administrator that one (1) or more of the following exists:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and
2.
The application of these regulations to this particular piece of property would create a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship; and
3.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
4.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of these regulations, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this chapter; and
5.
A literal interpretation of this chapter would deprive the applicant of any rights that others in the same district are allowed.
Remedy. Appeals from a decision by the zoning administrator shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article XXI of this chapter.
Records. The zoning administrator shall keep public records of all administrative variances applied for and granted pursuant to this chapter.
Sec. 19.3. - Conflict.
This chapter shall supersede any other zoning regulations previously adopted or issued that are in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall not abolish any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that whenever this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land than are imposed by such easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of the chapter shall control.
Sec. 19.4. - Zoning enforcement officer; appeals.
The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the zoning administrator, and/or his/her designee. Requests for an administrative variance from the requirements of this chapter shall be heard and decided by the zoning administrator in accordance with the guidelines set forth in this section. Decisions of the zoning administrator may be appealed in accordance with the provisions of this article. Requests for a variance other than an administrative variance shall be heard and decided by the board of appeals in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Article XXI.
Sec. 19.5. - Remedies.
In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation of this chapter, the zoning administrator, or any other appropriate city authority or any other person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may seek injunctive, mandamus or other appropriate relief to prevent the violation in the case of each building or use of land.
Sec. 19.6. - Permits in effect.
Nothing herein shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or designated use of any land, building, structure or part thereof for which a building permit or land disturbance permit was issued or vested right established prior to the effective date of this chapter or amendment thereto.
Sec. 19.7. - Periodic review of zoning ordinance.
As needed, but at intervals of not more than four (4) years, the planning commission shall re-examine the provisions of this chapter and the location of district boundary lines and shall submit a report to the mayor and city council recommending such changes or amendments, if any, which may be desirable in the interest of public safety, health, convenience, necessity, or general welfare.
Sec. 19.8. - Enforcement actions.
19.8.1.
Enforcement options. Enforcement of this chapter may be through criminal prosecution, civil fines, or other civil proceedings. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other legal entity who shall do anything prohibited by this chapter as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended or which shall fail to do anything required by this chapter as the same exists or as it may hereafter be amended shall be subject to an enforcement action.
A.
Representatives of the city shall have the power to conduct such investigations as may reasonably be deemed necessary to assure or compel compliance with the requirements and provisions of this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property for the purpose of investigation and inspection, as permitted by law. Officers and officials may seek inspection warrants or search warrants on probable cause of a violation occurring inside a structure. No warrant shall be required to investigate visible and open violations or uses.
B.
No person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with any city representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
19.8.2.
Persons who may be cited. Owners are ultimately responsible for the condition of their property and ensuring that their property and all activity occurring on such property is in compliance with this chapter. For any violation, both the owner of the property and/or the individual agent, tenant or invitee of the owner responsible for the violation may be cited, where appropriate. Agents of the owner would include, but not be limited to, developers, builders, contractors, and subcontractors. Tenants and invitees would include, but not be limited to, any renter, leaseholder, owner of any vehicle or structure on the property, or other person conducting an activity on the property who is not a trespasser. Corporations and companies responsible for the work may be cited in lieu of or in addition to citations issued to the actual individuals on-site committing violations.
19.8.3.
Daily violations. Each day during which the violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall constitute a separate violation, subjecting the offender to a new citation, or other civil or criminal proceeding.
19.8.4.
Multiple violations. Each separate action, omission, or occurrence relating to any specific provision of this chapter shall be a separate violation, subjecting the offender to a separate citation. Multiple junk cars count as one (1) violation, but the fee increases as shown in section 13.3 below.
19.8.5.
Criminal prosecution. The zoning administrator, or designated code enforcement personnel, or other authorized personnel, may issue criminal citations for violations of this chapter, or violation of any stop work order.
A.
Criminal prosecutions for violation of this chapter shall be commenced by the completion, signing, and service of a citation by an authorized city official or zoning enforcement officer. No warning need be issued prior to a citation being issued. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused, his or her authorized representative or, if a corporation, an officer of the corporation or its on-site representative or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the property; a copy shall be promptly filed with the magistrate court. A stop work order may be issued in conjunction with a citation.
B.
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial in municipal court, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the police officer, code enforcement officer, or other authorized officer who completes and serves it.
C.
Any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall thereafter be arrested on the warrant of the municipal court judge and required to post a bond for his or her future appearance.
D.
The city attorney, or another attorney designated by City of Cartersville may act as prosecuting attorney for violations of this chapter.
E.
Fines shall be assessed in accordance with section 20.2.
19.8.6.
Civil fines and proceedings. In addition to or in lieu of any other remedy, the city may seek injunctive, mandamus or other appropriate relief in municipal court as appropriate or the superior court of Bartow County to enjoin or prevent a violation of any provision of this chapter. Such action may also seek civil fines at the mandatory rates specified in section 20.2 for violation of this chapter, and may additionally seek the costs of restitution, and any other costs associated with the action to enjoin or prevent any violation of any provision of this chapter. The city shall be entitled to its reasonable attorney's fees and costs for bringing an action in municipal court or superior court wherein any relief is granted or fine assessed.
19.8.7.
Stop work orders. Upon notice from the zoning administrator, designated code enforcement officers, or other authorized personnel, work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be immediately stopped.
A.
Stop work orders shall affect all work being done on a project or development (which may include work done on other lots in the subdivision owned by the same violator). Stop work orders stop not only the work in violation, but all other work by contractors or subcontractors on the same property. Only work to remedy the deficiency shall be allowed until the stop work order is lifted.
B.
A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, his authorized agent or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the property, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency or other exigent circumstances exist, no written notice shall be required, and a verbal stop work order may be issued, with a written order to be provided within three (3) working days.
C.
Stop work orders may be issued on their own, or in conjunction with criminal citations, or civil proceedings in municipal court or superior court.
D.
Issuance of a stop work order may be appealed to the board of appeals.
Sec. 19.9. - Records.
The zoning department shall keep records of violators, whether corporate or individual, in order to determine when second or subsequent violations occur.
