ARTICLE I. - ENACTMENT, SHORT TITLE, JURISDICTION, PURPOSE

Sec. 1.1. - Enactment clause.
The Mayor and Council of the City of Cartersville, under the authority of the General Planning and Zoning Enabling Act Article IX, Section 2, paragraph 4 of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia and amendments thereto, hereby ordains and enacts into law the following articles and sections:
Sec. 1.2. - Short title.
These regulations shall be known and may be cited as "The Zoning Ordinance for the City of Cartersville."
Sec. 1.3. - Jurisdiction.
These regulations shall govern the use of all land and the developments thereof within the corporate limits of the City of Cartersville.
Sec. 1.4. - Purpose and relationship to the Comprehensive Plan.
The City of Cartersville Zoning Ordinance is designed to implement the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan for the development and use of land. The purpose of these regulations shall be to:
1.
Promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the City;
2.
Promote desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods;
3.
Promote the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures;
4.
Promote the proper sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces;
5.
Protect property against blight and depreciation;
6.
Lessen congestion on streets;
7.
Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
8.
Provide adequate light and air and preventing the overcrowding of land;
9.
Avoid undue concentration of population;
10.
Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements;
11.
Promote a balance of residential, commercial, and industrial uses throughout the community;
12.
Discourage urban sprawl;
13.
Encourage the use of ecodevelopment, green building, sustainable development, and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) practices, as defined herein; and
14.
Promote the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the city in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
