CHARTER LAWS - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Published herein is the City Charter, being Ga. L. 1974, p. 3697, as amended. The act is published as enacted, except that history notes show the source of amendments and the printing style has been made consistent with the Code. Except as stated otherwise, all other additions or changes are encased in brackets [ ].

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER, CITY LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Charter.
This act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Cartersville, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter as provided by Ga. L. of 1937, p. 1532, as amended. The City of Cartersville, Georgia, in the County of Bartow, and the inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the "City of Cartersville, Georgia," and under that name said city shall continue to be vested with all property and rights of property which now belong to the corporation; shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all actions whatsoever; may contract and be contracted with; may acquire and hold such property, real or personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to or otherwise acquired by it and from time to time may hold or invest, sell or dispose of the same; may have a common seal and change it at pleasure; and may exercise in conformity with this charter all municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
Sec. 1.02. - Corporate limits.
The city shall include all territory within the boundaries which constitute the corporate limits as designated in Appendix 1 attached hereto and made a part of this charter.
Editor's note— The appendix referred to in the above section has not been published herein, as it has been rendered obsolete by subsequent annexations by the city.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city shall include the following:
(a)
In accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia, to levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, re-evaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation for state and county purposes; and to contract with any city, county or other governmental and political subdivision for the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes, or other fees, assessments, or taxes, as the city council may by resolution authorize.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(c)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
(d)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise, any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(e)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council, under chapter 36 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, as amended [now O.C.G.A. tit. 22], or under other applicable laws.
(f)
To acquire, own, construct, operate, distribute and maintain public utilities and services including a system of waterworks, a natural gas system, sewerage system, an electrical system including, but not limited to, community antenna television system inside or telecommunications system inside or outside the corporate limits of said city subject to the provisions of applicable general laws. For water, gas and electricity furnished, and for all sewerage and sanitary services rendered, said city may prescribe the charges, rates, fares, fees, rules, regulations and standards and conditions of service to be provided. If any such charges, rate fares or fees are not paid, such shall constitute a lien against any property of the persons served, said lien to be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes. No utility owned or operated by the City of Cartersville shall be sold unless such sale shall be first approved in a special election by a majority vote of those electors voting in said special election in the City of Cartersville.
(g)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services including, but not limited to, electricity, gas, water, cable and telecommunications not to exceed periods of forty (40) years except that no franchise shall be granted for gas, water and electricity in any area within the corporate limits as of January 1, 1974, unless such franchise shall be first approved by the Mayor and City council of the City of Cartersville. The city council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations of the public service commission.
(h)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under Chapter 36 of the Code of Georgia, 1933, as amended [now O.C.G.A. tit. 22], or any other applicable laws.
(i)
To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(j)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse, and to provide power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city free from garbage, trash and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt which shall be subject to a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(k)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(l)
To define a nuisance in the city and to provide by ordinance for its abatement.
(m)
To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(n)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the recorder's court shall work out such sentences in any public works or on the public streets of the city as provided by ordinance; or the city council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to any city jail or to any county work camp, or jail by agreement with appropriate county officers.
(o)
To regulate and license, or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment and disposition of same.
(p)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinances; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(q)
To provide for a license fee and a tax on the sale of malt beverages and alcoholic beverages, after the sale of either has been duly authorized by law.
(r)
To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the city council in such ordinance, rule, regulation or order but not exceeding the limitations prescribed by this charter.
(s)
To adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the zoning of the city, in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, aesthetics, property, and general welfare, and for the purpose of regulating the height and location of the buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages; or for the purpose of preserving buildings, structures or areas having national, regional, state or local historic significance; or for the purpose of maintaining or improving the aesthetic appearance of any buildings, structures or areas. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one (1) or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and councilmen of said city shall deem best to accomplish and purposes of the zoning regulations.
(t)
To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital and commercial and manufacturing and other enterprises into the city, and also to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city for the support of public hospitals and libraries.
(u)
To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and ways; and in the discretion of the city council by ordinance to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways.
(v)
To contract with any state department, agency, or other political subdivisions for the joint services or the exchange of services; to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(w)
To contract with the United States of America, the State of Georgia, any county of the State of Georgia or any political subdivision of the State of Georgia or any department or agency of either for products, services or grants of funds for any lawful purpose or purposes.
(x)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or laws of the state.
(y)
To authorize the police to enforce ordinances on private property generally used by the public.
(Amend. No. 2-97, 5-8-97; Res. No. 23-98, Exh. A, 11-5-98)
State Law reference— Constitutional grant of home rule powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; statutory grant of home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 1.04. - Ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in said city, not inconsistent with this act, are hereby declared valid and of force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 1.05. - Citizen's ordinance; submission.
It shall be the right of any citizen of the city to submit to the city council, in proper form for passage, any ordinance or resolution affecting the public interests of the city, for enactment; and if the same be signed or approved in writing by twenty-five (25) percent of those registered to vote at the last preceding election, it shall be the duty of the council to pass upon such ordinance or resolution not later than the second regular meeting thereafter; and if it fails to pass, the petition shall be transmitted by the clerk to the election superintendent within two (2) days thereafter, and it shall be the duty of the election superintendent to call an election to be held not later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the petition. If the majority of those voting in said election vote for the measure, it shall be the duty of the city council to pass the same at its next regular meeting after the election.
Editor's note— Initiative ordinances are now controlled by O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.01. - Establishment of city government.
The corporate governmental powers of the City of Cartersville shall be vested in a mayor and four (4) councilmen, to be known as the "city council," until January 1, 1990, at which time such powers of the City of Cartersville shall be vested in a mayor and six (6) councilmen, to be known as the "city council." The mayor shall be elected as provided in this charter by the qualified voters of the city at large. Each councilman shall be elected as provided in this charter by the qualified voters who reside in the ward from which such councilman seeks office. The mayor and councilmen shall exercise their powers in such a manner as prescribed by this charter, the Constitution of the State of Georgia, and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia or, if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly established ordinances of the City of Cartersville.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 1)
Sec. 2.02. - Qualifications for mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman (elected or appointed), a person must be at least twenty-five (25) years of age, must meet the requirements of a qualified elector for members of the General Assembly, and must have been a bona fide resident of the City of Cartersville for at least one (1) year next preceding the election in which he or she offers as a candidate, and must be a qualified voter in said city. To be eligible for the office of councilman, a person must be a resident of the ward from which he seeks office.
Sec. 2.03. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
On the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1989, there shall be an election for the office of mayor. The mayor shall be elected by the voters of the city at large. The term of office of the mayor shall be for two (2) years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. At said time there also shall be an election for the office of councilman from ward one (1) and councilman from ward three (3), whose terms of office shall be for four (4) years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. At said time there also shall be an election for the office of councilman from ward five and councilman from ward six. The initial term of office for the councilman from ward five shall be for four (4) years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The initial term of office for the councilman from ward six shall be for two (2) years and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, the term of each councilman shall be for four (4) years, but the term of office of mayor shall be for only two (2) years, so that biennially thereafter there shall be an election for mayor and three (3) councilmen. Said elections shall be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday of November preceding the end of the respective terms. Persons so elected shall take office on the first day of January following their election. Beginning with the election for councilmen in November, 1989, for the term of office to begin on January 1, 1990, and in every election thereafter, each councilman shall be voted on and elected by only the qualified voters who reside in the ward from which such councilman seeks office, and only the mayor shall be voted on and elected by the qualified voters from the city at large. The mayor and councilmen serving on the city council on March 1, 1989, shall continue to serve for the remainder of their respective terms.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 2)
Sec. 2.04. - City council.
The city council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place as provided by ordinance. Until January 1, 1990, the city council shall meet in special session on call of the mayor, on call of any three (3) members of the city council, or on call of the city manager and two (2) of the members of the city council if notice of such special session has been served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting. After January 1, 1990, the city council shall meet in special session on call of the mayor, on call of any four (4) members of the city council, or on call of the city manager and three (3) of the members of the city council if notice of such special session has been served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is convened or if such notice is waived in writing. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The council shall exercise its power in public meetings. Until January 1, 1990, any three (3) members of the council shall constitute a quorum. After January 1, 1990, any four (4) members of the council shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of the mayor or mayor pro tempore, the members shall elect a presiding officer. Until January 1, 1990, passage of any ordinance or resolution shall take the affirmative vote of three (3) members of the city council, which shall be construed to include the mayor, and the mayor shall be entitled to vote on any question and the vote of the mayor shall be necessary to pass any ordinance or resolution favored by only two (2) other members of the city council. After January 1, 1990, passage of any ordinance or resolution shall take the affirmative vote of four (4) members of the city council, which shall be construed to include the mayor, and the mayor shall be entitled to vote on any question and the vote of the mayor shall be necessary to pass any ordinance or resolution favored by only three (3) other members of the city council. The council may, by ordinance, adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may provide by ordinance for punishment for contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 3)
Sec. 2.05. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote as provided in section 2.04; shall have veto power except where the vote of the mayor was necessary for passage, as provided in section 2.04, and the mayor shall have five (5) days after meetings of the council in which to sign or veto any ordinances, orders and resolutions adopted. If the mayor shall fail to sign the ordinance, order or resolution within said five (5) days, or, upon passage overriding his veto as hereinafter stated, an ordinance, order or resolution so adopted shall become effective upon the expiration of said time or upon passage over veto by the mayor without signature by the mayor. The council may pass any such ordinance, order or resolution, notwithstanding the veto, by a vote of three-fourths of the total number of councilmen, to be taken by ayes and nays, and entered upon the minutes. The mayor shall be the ceremonial head of the city; shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, except as above provided; may make short-term loans in the name of the city when authorized by the council to do so; shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so; and shall perform such other duties imposed by this charter and duly adopted ordinances.
Sec. 2.06. - Mayor pro tempore.
The council at the first regular meeting, and after the newly elected councilmen have taken office following each regular election, shall elect from its membership a mayor pro tempore for a term of two (2) years. Upon the council's failure to elect a mayor pro tempore at its first regular meeting in January, the incumbent councilman who received the highest number of votes, when last elected, shall be declared mayor pro tempore. The mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor during his absence.
Sec. 2.07. - Vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or any councilman resigns, dies, moves, in the case of a councilman, from his ward, moves his residence from the city, or is absent from four (4) consecutive regular meetings of the city council without excuse satisfactory to a majority of the remaining members of the city council; or if he is convicted of malfeasance in office, or of a felony, or any violation of election laws.
The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill any such vacancy in the office of councilman for the remainder of the unexpired term, except as otherwise provided in the subsequent paragraph.
At no time shall there be more than one (1) council member so appointed holding office, and if a vacancy occurs on the council with one (1) member so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held not less than thirty (30) days, nor more than sixty (60) days, after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms in a special election. Provided, however, if a regular election shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy may be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
In the event a vacancy should occur in the office of the mayor, a special election shall be called and held in the manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2.08. - Compensation and expenses.
Beginning January 1, 1990, the mayor shall receive an annual salary in the amount of at least seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200.00), payable in equal monthly installments, and each councilman shall receive an annual salary of at least four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00), payable in equal monthly installments. Each councilman, and the mayor, when authorized by the council, and, upon presentation to the council of itemized vouchers, shall receive their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office. The city council may not change the compensation of the mayor or councilmen then in office, and may not change the compensation of any successor mayor or councilman within four (4) months of the end of the term of the incumbent council.
(Ord. No. 31-89, 8-24-89)
Sec. 2.09. - City legislation.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect or required to be done by ordinance under this charter shall be done by ordinance. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before being introduced. Until January 1, 1990, the affirmative vote of at least three (3) members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After January 1, 1990, the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the council shall be required to pass any resolution or ordinance. After adoption of ordinances, the city clerk shall number ordinances consecutively, in the order of their final adoption, and shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose. The city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of numbers and a permanent record book. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk. (Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 4)
Sec. 2.10. - Readings.
No ordinance, except in the case of an emergency which shall be stated in the ordinance, shall be approved until it shall have been read at two (2) consecutive council meetings not less than seven (7) days apart.
Sec. 2.11. - Council interference with administration.
Except for the purpose of inquires and investigations, the mayor and city council or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager solely through the city manager, and neither the mayor or city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
(Ord. No. 07-18, § 1, 3-1-18)
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The council, by ordinance, may establish, abolish, merge or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city in addition to those created by this charter as they shall deem necessary to administer the affairs of the government of the city. The council in such ordinance shall prescribe the functions and duties of any such department, offices and agencies created, except that no functions assigned by this charter to a particular department, office or agency, may be discontinued or, unless this charter specifically so provides, assigned to any other.
Sec. 3.02. - Holding multiple offices; altering offices.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the council may by ordinance provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment; and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments and agencies of the city.
Sec. 3.03. - City manager; appointment; compensation.
(a)
The mayor and city council shall appoint a city manager to serve subject to the pleasure of the mayor and city. If, however, the mayor and city council deem it necessary and in the best interests of the City of Cartersville, they are authorized to make a contract with the city manager on such terms as may be mutually agreed upon, the term of the contract not to extend beyond the term of the mayor and city council. The contract, however, may include provisions relative to a procedure for removal of the city manager or relative to the termination of the contract.
(b)
The city manager shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city government. The city manager shall be chosen by the mayor and city council on the basis of his/her administrative qualifications with special reference to his/her actual experience in, and knowledge of, the duties of the office as hereinafter prescribed. At the time of his appointment he/she need not be a resident of the city, but shall reside therein during his/her tenure of office. The city manager shall receive such salary and benefits as the mayor and city council shall fix.
(Ord. No. 07-18, § 2, 3-1-18)
Sec. 3.04. - Acting city manager.
If the office of the city manager should become vacant for any cause, or the city manager should become disabled or incapacitated permanently or temporarily so that the duties of his office should be vested in another, for the time being, the city council may designate some proper person to discharge the duties of his office until the vacancy can be filled, or until the return of the city manager to his duties of the office; and in the case of vacancy, may fill the vacancy at any time.
Sec. 3.05. - Chief administrator.
The city manager shall be responsible to the city council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city. As chief administrator, the city manager shall have the power to appoint and remove all employees in the administrative service of the city, except the city clerk, deputy city clerk, city attorney and recorder, who shall be appointed as provided in this charter; and provided that the city manager may only recommend the employment of department heads, as defined by ordinance, who shall be hired and fired only with the approval of the city council. It shall be the duty of the city manager to supervise the administration of the affairs of the city; to see that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the city council and the laws of the state are faithfully executed and enforced; to make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as he shall deem expedient; to keep the mayor and council advised of the financial condition and future financial needs of the city; to attend all meetings of the city council as directed by the mayor and city council, and to prepare and to submit to the city council such reports as he may deem expedient or as may be required of him by the council; and to perform all other duties as may be required of him by the council. He shall be the purchasing agent for the city of all supplies, materials, equipment, and all other articles and wares of every kind and description used by the city, except as hereinafter provided for the board of education. The city council shall provide by ordinance for purchasing procedures.
(Amend. No. 50-95, 11-22-95)
Sec. 3.06. - Maps and diagrams.
The city manager shall cause to be prepared and maintained the necessary maps, diagrams or other records, as will show at all times the location of all water, gas, electrical and sewer pipes, all plugs, cutoffs, lines, connections and all other information connected with the water, gas, electrical and sewer systems of the city as to facilitate the efficient and economical maintenance and extension and improvement thereof.
Sec. 3.07. - Bond.
The city manager, before entering upon the discharge of his duties shall execute a bond with solvent sureties doing business in Bartow County in an amount to be approved by the council but not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) payable to the City of Cartersville, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations, or unlawful expenditures. The premium on said surety bond shall be paid for by the city.
Sec. 3.08. - City clerk.
The mayor and council shall appoint a city clerk who shall be ex officio treasurer. He shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of council, attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, a proper index of such proceedings, and the title of each resolution or ordinance considered, preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the city council. The city clerk shall also keep a true and accurate account of the receipts and expenditures of the city.
The city council shall require the clerk-treasurer, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give a good and sufficient bond in an amount to be decided by the city council, but not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), said bond payable to the City of Cartersville, for the faithful performance of his duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures. Said surety bond shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, City of Cartersville, and the premium thereon shall be paid by the city.
The city council shall also appoint a deputy city clerk, who shall discharge the duties of the city clerk in his absence, and shall have such other duties as may be designated by the city council.
Sec. 3.09. - City attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part; may be the prosecuting officer in the recorder's court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning the city's legal affairs; shall draw all legal documents relating to the affairs of the city when requested by city officials to do so; shall inspect and give his opinion, when requested by the city council, on the legality and form of all agreements, contracts, franchises, and other legal instruments with which the city may be concerned; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
Sec. 3.10. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take before an officer of the state, authorized to administer oaths, the following oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I will in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Cartersville, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ___________. So help me God."
Sec. 3.11. - Political activity prohibited.
No employee of the city, other than the mayor and councilmen, shall continue in the employment of the city after becoming a candidate for nomination or election to any city or other public office.
Sec. 3.12. - Personal financial interest.
Any city officer or employee who has a financial interest, direct or indirect, or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, except a minority interest in a corporation the stock of which is listed on a major stock exchange, in any contract with the city or in the sale of any land, material, supplies, or services to the city, or through a contractor supplying the city shall make known that interest by announcement at a council meeting and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in his capacity as a city officer or employee in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any city officer or employee who wilfully conceals such financial interest or wilfully violates the requirement of this section shall upon conviction be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the knowledge, express or implied, of the person or corporation contracted with or making a sale to the city shall render the contract or sale voidable by city council.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July of each year and shall end on the thirtieth day of June next following. Said fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for the financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, or institution, agency and activity of the government, unless otherwise provided by state or federal law.
Sec. 4.02. - Preparation of budget.
The city council shall provide by ordinance the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating and a capital improvement budget.
Sec. 4.03. - Scope of annual operation budget.
(a)
The annual operating budget shall contain with respect to each of the operating funds of the government of the City of Cartersville to which they are applicable:
(1)
An estimate of the unencumbered fund balance or deficit at the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, and the amount of any reserve for designated purposes or activities includable in the operating budget.
(2)
A reasonable estimate of revenues to be received during the ensuing fiscal year, classified according to source; provided, however, the estimated revenues from current and delinquent property taxes shall not exceed the percentage collected of the total receivable from each such source during the last complete fiscal year, or the current fiscal year, whichever is greater.
(3)
Proposed expenditures detailed by each department, board, commission, office, agency, and activity in accordance with an established classification of accounts, including those capital outlays which are to be financed from the revenues of the ensuing fiscal year, and including all debt service requirements in full for such fiscal year payable from such funds.
(4)
Work programs and performance data in justification of proposed expenditures for each department, board, commission, office or agency.
(5)
Such other information as may be considered necessary or desirable or requested by the city council.
(b)
In no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed the total anticipated revenues plus the estimated unappropriated surplus, or fund balance, and applicable reserves and less any estimated deficit at the end of the current fiscal year.
Sec. 4.04. - Submission of budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council, but not later than thirty (30) days after the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget and other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. A sufficient number of copies of the city manager's message shall be reproduced to furnish a copy to any citizen requesting one, and a copy of the budget in full shall be filed with the council and furnished to the mayor and each councilman. A summary of the budget shall be published in one (1) or more newspapers of general circulation within the City of Cartersville. The operation budget and the capital improvements budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message and all supporting schedules shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 4.05. - Action by the city council on budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the operation budget proposed by the city manager; except, that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues, constituting the fund availability of such fund.
(b)
The city council shall adopt the final operating budget for the current fiscal year not later than August thirtieth of each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for the current operations for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the council adopts the budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriation ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by source and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, proposed or activity as set out in the budget document.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational department shall constitute the annual appropriations for such department, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriation, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable, except as provided in section 4.06 of this charter.
Sec. 4.06. - Additional appropriations.
The city council may by ordinance make supplemental appropriations from revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget or make revisions in the operating budget at any regular meeting or any special meeting called for such purpose.
Sec. 4.07. - Lapse of appropriations.
All unencumbered balances of appropriations in the current operating budget shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year.
Sec. 4.08. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before date fixed by the city council, but not later than thirty (30) days after the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have the power to accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed programs and proposed means of financing.
(b)
The mayor and council shall adopt the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than August 30th of each year. No appropriations provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided the city manager may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by his recommendations thereof. Any such amendments to capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by the city council.
Sec. 4.09. - Annual audit.
The city council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all the financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the city council and shall prepare a summary of the report which shall be furnished and made available to the mayor and every councilman.
Sec. 4.10. - Property taxes.
All property subject to taxation for state or county purposes assessed as of January 1 of each year, shall be subject to a property tax levied by the city.
Sec. 4.11. - Tax levy.
The city council shall be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the City of Cartersville for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of public education, ordinary current expenses and for any other purpose now or hereafter authorized by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, in addition to a sufficient levy to pay principal and interest on general obligations. Said city is hereby authorized to levy taxes in excess of the limitation prescribed by Georgia Code sections 92-4101 to 92-4104 [now repealed] and such limitations shall not be applicable to the City of Cartersville.
Sec. 4.12. - Tax due date and tax bills.
The city council shall provide by ordinance when the taxes of the city shall fall due and within what length of time said taxes shall be paid. The council may provide by ordinance for the payment of taxes due to the city in installments, or in one (1) lump sum, and when and how and upon what terms such taxes shall be due and payable, as well as to authorize the payment of taxes prior to the time when due. The terms and methods of payment and collection of city taxes shall be in such manner as the city council may determine by ordinance.
Sec. 4.13. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The city council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by the use of any available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property upon which city property taxes are levied, as of the assessment day of January 1 of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those of the federal, state, or county taxes.
Sec. 4.14. - Sale and disposition of property.
(a)
The city council is hereby authorized to sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the City of Cartersville for governmental or any other purposes, except as otherwise limited by law; provided, however, no public utility owned or operated by the City of Cartersville shall be sold by the city council unless such sale shall be first approved by a three-fourths vote of all electors of the City of Cartersville. A special election shall be called and held for that purpose.
(b)
After public hearing the city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution finding (1) that the property is not needed for public purposes and (2) that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the mayor and council may authorize the execution and deliverance in the name of the city of a deed conveying said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property.
Sec. 4.15. - Special assessments.
The city council shall have power and authority to assess all or part of the costs of constructing, reconstructing, widening, draining, or improving any public ways, sewers, utilities mains, and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, and to provide the method of payment of such assessments and penalties for nonpayment, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for city and county property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided herein or by ordinance for city property taxes.
Sec. 4.16. - Transfer of executions.
The city clerk of the City of Cartersville shall be authorized to transfer and assign any fi. fa. or execution issued for street, sewer, or any other assessment in the same manner upon the same terms, and to the same effect and thereby vest the purchaser or transferee, with the same rights as in the case of sales or transfers of tax fi. fas. as now provided by law; and as to all sales of property hereafter made under execution in behalf of the city for the collection of street, sewer, and other assessments, the owner or owners, as the case may be, are authorized to redeem the same within the same time and in compliance with the same terms and payment of the same premium, interest and costs, as in the cases of redemption of property where sold under tax fi. fa., as the same now exists, or as it may from time to time be provided by law.
ARTICLE V. - PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEMS

Sec. 5.01. - Public school systems preserved.
The public school system of the City of Cartersville and of its governing authority, and all rights, powers, and authority of the city with respect thereto are preserved, as amended, revised and consolidated as contained in the following sections. The city council is hereby empowered to continue and maintain the system of public schools for the City of Cartersville, as established by law.
Sec. 5.02. - Cartersville School Board; creation, membership.
(a)
Until January 1, 1990, the Cartersville School Board shall be composed of five (5) members. One (1) member of the board shall reside in each of the four (4) wards of the city and one (1) member may reside anywhere within the corporate city limits. After January 1, 1990, the Cartersville School Board shall be composed of seven (7) members. One (1) member of the board shall reside in each of the six (6) wards of the city and one (1) may reside anywhere within the corporate limits. The qualifications of such members shall be the same as those for the members of the city council. Candidates for membership on the board shall qualify by designating whether they offer as a candidate for a ward position or as a candidate for the city-at-large position. All board members, except the one (1) member elected by the qualified voters from the city at large, shall be elected, as hereinafter provided, by the qualified voters that reside in the ward from which each such board member seeks office. Except as may be otherwise provided herein, candidates shall qualify in the same manner as candidates for the city council and mayor are required to qualify, and the elections therefor shall be held, in all particulars, in the same manner as elections for mayor and councilmen. Those members serving on the Cartersville School Board on March 1, 1989, shall continue to serve for the remainder of their respective terms.
(b)
On the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1989, there shall be an election for the offices of Cartersville School Board members from ward one and ward two, whose terms of office shall be for four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. At the same time there also shall be an election for the offices of board members from ward five and ward six. The initial terms of office for the board members from wards five (5) and six (6) shall be for four (4) years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, the term of each board member shall be for four (4) years, so that biennially thereafter there shall be an election for board members from wards three and four and for the board member elected by the qualified voters of the city at large, and then an election for the board members from wards one, two, five, and six on a rotating basis every two (2) years. Said elections shall be held on the Tuesday after the first Monday of November preceding the end of the respective terms. Members so elected shall take office on the first day of January following the election for board members in November, 1989, for the term of office to begin in January, 1990, and every election thereafter. Each of six (6) board members shall be voted on and elected by only the qualified voters who reside in the ward from which a board member seeks office, and only one (1) board member shall be voted on and elected by the qualified voters from the city at large, each to serve a four-year term of office and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(c)
Until January 1, 1990, three (3) members of the Cartersville School Board shall constitute a quorum, and a majority vote, but not less than three (3) affirmative votes, shall be sufficient for
the transaction of any business. After January 1, 1990, four (4) members of the Cartersville School Board shall constitute a quorum, and a majority vote, but not less than four (4) affirmative votes, shall be sufficient for the transaction of any business.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 5)
Sec. 5.03. - Oath, meetings, and officers.
The members of the Cartersville School Board shall devote such time and attention to the duties of their office as the efficient performance thereof may require, and before entering upon the discharges of duties of said office, each member shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
"I, _____(name)_____, do solemnly swear or affirm that I will faithfully discharge the duties devolving upon me as a member of the Cartersville School Board, to the best of my skill and ability, and in accordance with what shall to me appear for the best interest of the community and the cause of education, and without fear, favor, affection, reward or hope thereof, so help me God."
Said board shall have the power to fix times for regular monthly meetings, make such rules and regulations for its own government as it may deem proper, and shall elect from its members annually a president, a vice-president, and a secretary of the board. The board shall keep a book of minutes in which all resolutions, decisions and measures passed shall be recorded and all voting for the election of, or the dismissal of, superintendents, principals, and teachers shall be done by written ballot bearing the name of the voter, and the minutes shall show how each member voted in all such elections.
Sec. 5.04. - Personal financial interest.
Any member of the Cartersville School Board who has a financial interest, direct or indirect, or by reason of ownership of stock in any corporation, except a minority interest in a corporation the stock of which is listed on a major stock exchange, in any contract with the board or city or in the sale of any land, material, supplies, or services to the board or city, or through a contractor supplying the board or city shall make known that interest by announcement at a board meeting and in writing to the superintendent of schools and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in his capacity as a member of the Cartersville School Board in the making of such sale or in the making or performance of such contract. Any member of the Cartersville School Board who wilfully conceals such financial interest or wilfully violates the requirement of this section shall upon conviction be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this section with the knowledge express or implied of the person or corporation contracted with or making a sale to the city shall render the contract or sale voidable by the board.
Sec. 5.05. - Removal from office, vacancies.
In case of one (1) vacancy on said board occurring other than by reason of expiration of a term of office, the remaining members of the board, at a regular meeting or a special meeting called for such purpose, shall elect a qualified person to serve as a member of the board for the unexpired term. In the event the board is unable to fill any such vacancy within thirty (30) days, a special election shall be held to fill the vacancy.
At no time shall there be more than one (1) board member so appointed holding office, and if a vacancy occurs on the board with one (1) member so appointed on the board, a special election shall be held not less than thirty (30) days, nor more than sixty (60) days after the office becomes vacant pursuant to a call of a special election as provided by this charter; however, if a special election is called pursuant to this charter, the vacancy previously filled by appointment as well as the existing vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired terms in a special election. Provided, however, if a regular election shall be held within three (3) months after the second vacancy occurs, the first vacancy previously filled by appointment and the second vacancy may be filled for the unexpired terms at such regular election.
Sec. 5.06. - Powers of the board.
The Cartersville School Board shall be vested with the authority to administer the existing public school system of the city and shall have and possess the power to modify and change such system from time to time in order to make it conform to educational needs and progress; the right and power to prescribe the plan of instruction and organization of the public schools; the exclusive power to employ superintendents, principals, teachers, janitors and other persons necessary for the execution of its purposes and fix the salaries and compensation; shall have the exclusive power to prescribe the mode of furnishing, hygienic arrangement, repairing, cleaning, lighting and heating of all public school buildings; shall have the power to provide examinations and make such other suitable regulations governing the efficiency of the superintendents and teachers in scholarship. They shall have authority to delegate to the superintendents and the teachers such disciplinary authority as they may think best. They shall exercise general supervision of the schools; and shall do all such other acts required by the laws of the State of Georgia and such other acts not inconsistent therewith as will promote the efficiency of the school system under their charge.
The board shall not elect or employ any person as superintendent or principal who is related to any member of said board by blood or marriage in the sixth degree according to the rules of canon law; provided, that this provision shall not prevent the reelection or reemployment of any superintendent, principal, in said schools who was elected or employed as such, prior to the time the member of the board so related became such member, and provided that the reelection or reemployment of such superintendent, principal, is accomplished by a majority vote of the board exclusive of the related member.
Sec. 5.07. - Budget; tax levy; etc.
Prior to August 10, or on a date specified by the City Council, the Cartersville School Board shall submit to the City Council the Cartersville School Board's annual recommendation for the rate of tax levy within the limitations fixed by law to be made upon all taxable property within the City limits pursuant to the authority granted in Article 8, Section VI, Paragraph 1 of the 1983 Georgia Constitution and O.C.G.A. § 48-5-405. The City Council shall levy said tax upon the assessed value of all taxable property within the City limits within the limitations fixed by law.
The City Council shall cause the collected levied taxes to support the Cartersville Public Schools to be deposited into the Cartersville School Board account and disbursed from the account to the Cartersville Public Schools within ten (10) days of receipt. The City of Cartersville shall invoice the Cartersville Public Schools for the pro rata cost of collection of property taxes and for bond payments and other debt service charges owed by the Cartersville Public Schools. The Cartersville Public Schools shall pay to the City of Cartersville the amount invoiced for tax collection within ten (10) business days and at least four (4) business days prior to the due date for bond and all other debt service costs owed to the City by the Cartersville Public Schools. The School Board, as prescribed or approved by resolution, may incur indebtedness within the limits and manner prescribed by state law and may redeem such indebtedness by the issuance of checks or vouchers drawn upon the Cartersville School Board account subject to prior approval of a resolution by the City Council.
This section shall be effective as of July 1, 1998. On or after said effective date, the City shall provide no funds for the support of the Cartersville Public Schools except for the tax levy, as provided herein.
(Amd. of 11-5-98(1))
Sec. 5.08. - School superintendent.
There is hereby created the office of city school superintendent, to be selected by the Cartersville School Board for a term of office of three (3) years. The present superintendent shall continue to serve for the remainder of his term, except as otherwise provided herein. The superintendent shall be the chief administrative officer of the Cartersville School System and shall have such other duties as are provided in this charter or as may be prescribed by the board. A vacancy in the office of superintendent shall be filled by a majority vote of the entire board, that is, three (3) affirmative votes, for the unexpired term.
Sec. 5.09. - Purchases.
The city school superintendent shall be the purchasing agent for the Cartersville School Board for all required supplies, equipment, machinery, furniture and all other articles and wares of every kind and description necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the city schools. The city school superintendent shall execute a bond with solvent sureties doing business in Bartow County in an amount to be approved by the Cartersville School Board but not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) payable to the Cartersville School Board, and any other person designated by the board and in such amounts as required by said board conditioned for the faithful performance of all his or her duties, said bond or bonds to be paid for by the board. The city council and the Cartersville School Board, by joint resolution, may designate a single purchasing agent, to act both for the city school superintendent and for the city manager in this regard. Said joint purchasing agent shall execute a bond in the same amount and conditioned for the faithful performance of all his duties as is immediately hereinabove required of the city school superintendent.
Sec. 5.10. - Matriculation fee.
All children whose parents, guardians, or natural protectors bona fide reside within the corporate limits of the City of Cartersville shall be entitled to attend said public schools without charge. The Cartersville School Board may also admit children into said schools whose parents, guardians, or natural protectors do not reside within the corporate limits of said city, upon the payment of such tuition fees and upon such terms as may be prescribed by the board.
Sec. 5.11. - Contracts.
It shall be lawful for the Cartersville School Board to make contracts with any other board of education to exchange pupils; to pay such board or boards of education out of that portion of the school funds of the State of Georgia allocated for such board or boards by the State of Georgia.
Sec. 5.12. - Report to the state board of education.
The Cartersville School Board shall prepare and furnish all reports required by the laws of Georgia and/or the state board of education. A copy of any such report shall be distributed to the mayor and council, upon their request.
Sec. 5.13. - Receipts of funds by the board.
The Cartersville School Board is authorized to receive funds for educational purposes from any source whatsoever and to use the same for educational purposes, these funds may be disbursed by the City or provided directly to the Cartersville School Board.
(Amd. of 11-5-98(1))
Sec. 5.14. - Audit.
An annual audit shall be made by a certified public accountant of all of the records pertaining to the receipts and expenditures of all school funds within each school year, said audit to be completed as soon as possible after the close of the fiscal year ending June 30th. A copy of said audit shall be made available to the mayor and council and a copy shall be made available for public view.
Sec. 5.15. - Authority.
The Cartersville School Board is authorized to make such regulations and rules as deemed necessary and proper for the effective and efficient administration of the city school system.
Sec. 5.16. - Legal counsel.
The Cartersville School Board shall be authorized to employ legal counsel to assist it with matters of administration requiring legal advice.
ARTICLE VI. - MUNICIPAL COURT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(a), the term "municipal court" has been substituted for "recorder's court." In addition the term "judge of the municipal court" has been substituted for "recorder." See O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-2, 36-32-3.

Sec. 6.01. - Creation.
There is hereby established a court to be known as the "Municipal Court, City of Cartersville" which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said city and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by the laws of Georgia, to subpoena witnesses, to punish witnesses for nonattendance, and to try all offenses occurring within the territorial limits of the City of Cartersville including traffic cases which under the laws of Georgia are now or hereafter placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof, to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations and may prescribe the conditions of forfeiture of the same; and to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary and proper to the conduct of said court. The presiding officer of such court shall be known as the judge of the municipal court. Said court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof. The court shall sit at a place designated by the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.02. - Municipal judge; qualifications and appointment.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as judge of the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of twenty-five (25) years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, shall be a qualified voter in the City of Cartersville, and shall have resided therein at least one (1) year immediately preceding his appointment, and shall continue to reside therein during his term of office. At the first regular meeting in January of each year the mayor and council shall appoint the judge of the municipal court who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall also fill any vacancy or unexpired term in such office. The compensation of the judge of the municipal court shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
(b)
Before entering on the duties of his office, the judge of the municipal court shall take an oath before some officer duly authorized to administer oaths, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality. This oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.03. - Jurisdiction.
The judge of the municipal court shall have power to impose fines and to imprison violators for the violation of any law or ordinance of the City of Cartersville within such limits as may be set by ordinance or by laws of Georgia. Said judge of the municipal court shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment not exceeding ten (10) days or any combination of the two. He shall have the authority of a justice of the peace, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Cartersville, which warrants may be executed by any police officer of said city, to hold committal hearings, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction to be held in said city. Except as may be herein otherwise specified, the judge of the municipal court is vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers as to the entire area within the corporate limits of the City of Cartersville. The municipal court is specifically vested with all jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area within the corporate limits granted by state laws generally to mayors, recorder's and police courts, and particularly such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances. The judge of the municipal court and the municipal court clerk, or the city clerk in the judge of the municipal court's name, is hereby authorized to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses to said municipal court, and to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of said court.
(Amd. of 11-5-98(2))
State Law reference— Maximum punishments municipal court may impose, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c).
Sec. 6.04. - Right of appeal.
The right of appeal to the Superior Court of Bartow County from the municipal court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals from the court of ordinary. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 6.05. - Vacancy in office.
In the absence, sickness or disqualification of the judge of the municipal court or vacancy in such office, a judge of the municipal court pro tempore may be appointed by the mayor and council, and in the performance of said office shall be clothed with the same powers and authority as are granted to the judge of the municipal court under this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia. The council is empowered to provide for the compensation of any such person appointed to preside over said court as herein provided.
Sec. 6.06. - Court costs.
In all cases in the Municipal Court of the City of Cartersville, the costs incurred and allowable therein shall be computed under the provisions of the laws of the State of Georgia fixing costs in the justice of the peace courts of said state, or the municipal court may establish a schedule of fees to defray the costs of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs, meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The municipal court may also provide a uniform scale of costs, approved by the city council, for all service in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions; and for their collections and payment into the city treasury.
Sec. 6.07. - Rules for courts.
With the approval of the city council, the judge of the municipal court shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of said court; provided, however, that the mayor and council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures for the operation of the superior courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE VII. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 7.01. - Regular elections, time for holding and taking office.
The regular election for mayor, councilmen, and Cartersville School Board members shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1989, and on said date biennially thereafter. Officials elected at any regular election shall take office on the first day of January subsequent to their election.
(Ga. Laws 1975, p. 4265, § 1; Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 6)
Sec. 7.02. - Wards; ward residency requirements; elections at large.
(a)
On and after March 1, 1989, each councilman and six (6) of the Cartersville School Board members shall be elected, with one (1) of each such officials being elected from each of the six (6) wards of the city, as hereafter defined, by the qualified voters who reside in the ward from which each such councilman and each such school board member seeks office. The mayor and one (1) school board member shall be elected by the qualified voters of the entire city at large.
(b)
The City of Cartersville shall be divided into six wards to be numbered ward one through ward six having such metes and boundaries and limits to be prescribed as follows:
(1)
By July 15, 1989, the city council shall divide the city into six (6) wards as nearly equal as possible according to the population in each ward. Variations in population among such wards shall comply with the one-person-one-vote requirements of the United States Constitution. The wards shall consist of areas which are bounded on all sides only by:
(A)
Visible features which are readily distinguishable upon the ground, such as streets, railroad tracks, streams, lakes, and ridges, and which are indicated upon official Department of Transportation maps; or
(B)
The boundaries of counties and incorporated municipalities.
(2)
The council, in dividing the city into six (6) wards, shall use the 1980 United States decennial census as the basis and guide, taking into consideration any annexations extending the city limits since 1980; and
(3)
The city council shall, after every United States census, realign the wards of the City of Cartersville to make them as nearly equal in population as possible, in the same manner as prescribed above.
(c)
After the council has determined the way in which the wards should be divided, according to the guidelines specified in subsection (b) of this section, it shall have a map prepared which clearly shows the six (6) separate wards. The city council shall, within thirty (30) days prior to the establishment of any new ward boundaries, publish a notice of such changes once a week for two (2) weeks in the official organ of the county and post a conspicuous notice of such changes in at least five (5) public and conspicuous places in each affected ward. At least one (1) such notice shall be posted at or in the immediate vicinity of the polling place or places. Each notice shall state the date upon which adoption of such changes is proposed to be made and shall direct interested persons to address their comments or questions to the election superintendent.
(d)
No councilman nor member of the Cartersville School Board shall be disqualified from completing his or her term of office by virtue of the realignment changing his or her residence from one (1) ward to another.
(Ga. Laws 1989, p. 4727, § 7)
Sec. 7.03. - Applicability of general laws.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the election of all officials of the City of Cartersville, where provision is made for election by the qualified voters thereof, shall be conducted as to primary, special or general elections in conformity so far as applicable with the provisions of the Georgia Municipal Election Code and Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended [now O.C.G.A. § 21-3-1 et seq.], and the city council shall adopt such ordinances as may be required by said laws.
Sec. 7.04. - Rules.
The council is hereby authorized to enact by ordinance such additional rules consistent with this charter and general laws as are deemed necessary for the conduct of elections.
Sec. 7.05. - Absentee ballots.
The council shall cause to be provided absentee ballots for city elections.
Sec. 7.06. - Recall election, grounds for; procedure.
The mayor and any member of the city council and any member of the Cartersville School Board may be recalled from office for malpractice or misconduct in office or gross neglect of the duties of the office in the following manner:
A petition shall be filed with city clerk containing the signatures of not less than thirty (30) percent of the whole number of those registered to vote at the general election for officers next preceding, calling for an election for the recall of the member or members of the board therein named. All signatures must be personal, or by mark with witnesses, and if more than one (1) sheet is used, they shall be bound together when offered for filing, and each sheet shall be numbered consecutively beginning with number one (1), at the foot of each page. Each sheet shall bear on the bottom or back thereof the affidavit of the person circulating such sheet setting forth that the signatures are all genuine and those made by mark are placed there at the request and in the presence of such signer, and shall contain a general statement of the general grounds upon which the recall is sought, the truth of which shall be supported by the affidavit, upon information and belief of one (1) or more of the signers. Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of such petition, excluding Sundays, the registrars shall compare the names appearing on the petition with the said registration books to determine if the petition contains the requisite thirty (30) percent of such registered names. If it be found that the petition does not contain the requisite number of such names, it shall be returned within seven (7) days, Sundays excepted, to the person or persons from whom received with a written statement with the number of names lacking. Within five (5) days after its return, Sundays excepted, the required number of additional names may be secured, and the petition re-presented together with the same affidavit prescribed for the original petition as to the signatures. If after again comparing the petition with the added names with the registration book it be found to contain the requisite thirty (30) percent of those registered, a special referendum shall be held not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days thereafter to determine whether or not the member or members of the governing authority in question shall be recalled. If after comparing the petition with the added names, as above stipulated with the registration book it be found it still lacks the required number of registered names, it shall be returned to the person from whom received with a written statement of the fact, with the date of the return written thereon, and no election shall be held; and in this event, and in the event an election is had failing to result in the recall of the member or members of the governing authority in question, no like petition shall be received for the recall of any member of the governing authority within six (6) months from the date of the election in the one (1) case, and the last return of the petition by the registrars in the other, and in no case shall a petition be filed for the recall of any member of the governing authority who shall not have been in service upon his or their present term of office for six (6) months. If the majority of those voting in the recall election, vote for the recall of any member or members of the governing authority, he or they shall vacate office as soon as his or their successor or successors are elected and qualified.
Upon the recall of any member or members of the governing authority a special election shall be held as provided in the Georgia Municipal Election Code to elect his or their successor or successors. In such election no new registration of voters shall be had, but only those registered for the recall election and otherwise qualified shall be qualified to vote in such election. Every person desiring to become a candidate in the election provided for in this section shall file a notice of candidacy and pay his qualification fee, if any, as provided by law.
Editor's note— Recall is now governed by O.C.G.A. § 21-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 7.07. - Special elections; call.
The city council shall issue the call for any special election; and in the event of a vacancy to be filled in a special election, the city council shall issue the call within ten (10) days after such vacancy occurs.
ARTICLE VIII. - SEVERABILITY

Sec. 8.01. - Constitutional parts separate.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The general assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
ARTICLE IX. - REPEALER

Sec. 9.01. - Laws in conflict repealed.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
