ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Purpose.
Sections 42-1 through 42-3 of this chapter are intended to provide a criminal penalty to the violations enumerated in section 42-1 [42-2] in circumstances where those violations pose an immediate and substantial risk to the health, welfare or good order of the community.
(Ord. of 3-3-2003, § II)
Sec. 42-2. - Nuisance, definitions.
The following conditions may be declared to be nuisances when any one of them endangers the health, welfare or good order of the community:
(1)
Stagnant water on premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter; weeds; vegetation; or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent, upon premises which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(3)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amounts to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(4)
The pollution of public water or injection of matter into the sewerage system which would be damaging thereto;
(5)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(6)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk;
(7)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public, including without limitation unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple family complexes such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and clubhouse areas;
(8)
All walls, trees, shrubbery, and buildings that may endanger persons and property;
(9)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent the activities;
(10)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators and the like, unless the doors, latches or locks thereof are removed;
(11)
Operation of a home occupation or a home business office, child-care facility, adult-care facility, country club, animal hospital, drive-in theater, church or other place of worship, adult entertainment establishment, or campsite and RV park in violation of any provision of appendix A, article III of this Code; and
(12)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(Ord. of 3-3-2003, § II)
Sec. 42-3. - Offense; penalty.
It is declared to be an offense for any owner, agent or tenant to maintain a nuisance. Each day a nuisance is continued shall constitute a separate offense. Maximum penalties for violation of this section shall be a fine not to exceed the maximum fines and/or imprisonment allowed under section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. of 3-3-2003, § II)
Secs. 42-4—42-30. - Reserved.
