ARTICLE VIII. - WATER CONSERVATION[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
State Law reference— Flow-rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 42-271. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to ensure the protection of the public health, welfare and safety of the city by having water conservation measures.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-121))
Sec. 42-272. - Coverage.
This article shall apply within the territorial limits of the city.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-122))
Sec. 42-273. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial water and industrial water means water that is used as an integral part to produce goods and services by any establishment having financial profit as their primary aim. It does not include reclaimed or treated wastewater used for irrigation purposes.
Conservation means the reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the resource.
Customer means all persons in whose name the city water department maintains an account for water use, or who are responsible for payment for water passing through a particular meter. All customers are responsible for any use of water that passes through the meter for which they are responsible.
Domestic water means water that is used for personal needs or for household purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or for cleaning a residence.
Emergency means any one or all of the following are present: Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs of the city causing a shortage; there is inadequate water treatment capabilities; mechanical difficulty that exists to the level that water supplies are below the level such that normal needs cannot be met; or any other unforseen circumstance which results in or may result in water supplies being at a level such that normal needs cannot be met.
Essential water means water specifically for firefighting, maintaining instream flow requirements, and necessary to meet the public health and safety requirements.
Nonessential water means water not specifically for firefighting, maintaining instream flow requirements and does not promote public health and safety requirements.
Water means all water available to the city for treatment by virtue of the city's water rights or withdrawal permits and any treated water introduced by the town into its potable water distribution system, including water purchased or offered for sale. Water does not include treated wastewater effluent reclaimed for reuse in irrigation or other approved uses.
Water shortage means the lack of adequate available water to meet the normal demands due to lower than normal precipitation, reduced flows or soil moisture, and/or lowering of potentiometric surface in wells which causes water supplies to be less than usual.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-123))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 42-274. - Priority levels.
The following priority levels of users of the city water system are hereby established:
(1)
Priority level 1: Hospitals, health care facilities, police and fire departments.
(2)
Essential priority level 1: Water use:
a.
Use by hospital and health care facilities of such amount of water that is necessary for patient care and rehabilitation, including swimming pools necessary for patient care and rehabilitation.
b.
Use by police and fire departments of such amount of water that is necessary to protect the welfare and safety of the city.
(3)
Priority level 2: Domestic use:
a.
Essential priority level 2: Water use:
1.
Use by residential users of such amount of water that is necessary to sustain human life and the lives of domestic pets, and to maintain hygiene and sanitation.
2.
Use by nonresidential users of such amount of water that is necessary to sustain human life and comfort in the workplace and to maintain hygiene and sanitation.
b.
Nonessential priority level 2: Water use:
1.
Use by residential user of such amount of water to water lawns, wash any vehicles, washing down sidewalks, walkways, driveway, parking lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas.
2.
Maintaining fountains, reflection ponds and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except where necessary to support aquatic life.
3.
Maintaining swimming pools.
(4)
Priority level 3: Commercial use:
a.
Essential priority level 3: Water use.
b.
Nonessential priority level 3: Water use:
1.
Serving water routinely in restaurants.
2.
Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational parks and lakes, except from the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife.
3.
Irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds except reclaimed or treated wastewater.
4.
Obtaining water from hydrants for construction purposes, fire drills, or for any purpose other than firefighting.
(5)
Priority level 4: Industrial use:
a.
Essential priority level 4: Water use.
b.
Nonessential priority level 4: Water use.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-124))
Sec. 42-275. - Authority.
(1)
The director of the public works department shall be the enforcement authority for this [article]. The city manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(2)
For the protection of the public health, welfare and safety of the city the director of the public works department, may pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7 and subject to the limitations therein, determine when certain conditions exist in the city requiring water conservation measures to be imposed, in addition to the conservation measures already imposed under this Code and state law. Any and all actions taken by the director shall be in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 12-5-7 as written and any amendments thereto.
(3)
If the director should impose water conservation measures, the following steps should be followed:
a.
Declaration of voluntary conservation measures. Whenever the director finds that a potential shortage of water supply is indicated, the director is empowered to declare a state of voluntary conservation, and to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures.
b.
Declaration of mandatory conservation measures. When it is found that there is a potential water emergency situation to occur or exist, the director can declare a state of mandatory conservation measures which will limit all water users to essential water use only.
c.
Declaration of water shortage. At the time the director has declared that a water shortage does exist and the rationing of water will proceed. Rationing is based on the priority level. Starting with those users that are categorized as priority level 4 will be the first to lose water. Priority level 3 will lose water next. Priority level 2 will lose water next. Priority level 1 will be the last to lose water.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-125); Ord. of 12-20-2010, § I)
Sec. 42-276. - Restriction on outdoor watering of landscape.
(1)
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
a.
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
b.
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable city ordinances and state guidelines;
c.
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
d.
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the environmental protection division of the state department of natural resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
e.
Watering personal food gardens;
f.
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
g.
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
h.
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
i.
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
j.
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
k.
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
l.
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
m.
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-126); Ord. of 12-20-2010, § II)
Editor's note— Ord. of Dec. 20, 2010, § II, changed the title of § 42-276 from responses to water shortages to restriction on outdoor watering of landscape.
Sec. 42-277. - Warnings; disconnections; fine; penalty.
Violations of any provisions in this article will be issued one warning by certified mail. After a second violation, the water department will disconnect the water service of any customer. Water service will not be restored until a reconnect fee is paid and the violator will be summoned to appear before the magistrate.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-127))
Sec. 42-278. - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 8-7-2000(2), § I(19-127))
Secs. 42-279—42-307. - Reserved.
