ARTICLE V. - SEWERS AND DRAINS[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; power of municipality to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); authority to acquire, construct, extend, operate, maintain and collect fees for water and sewerage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(5); adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections, payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7; grants of state funds to municipal corporations for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; authority to provide stormwater, sewerage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 86-121. - Tap-in fee.
The aldermanic board is authorized to charge and collect a tap-in fee in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for the furnishing of sewage service to any property. Such tap-in fee shall be paid prior to the furnishing of such service and shall be in a definite amount as shall be fixed by the aldermanic board, as they shall direct by resolution.
(Code 1976, § 19-48)
Sec. 86-122. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20 degrees Celsius expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Domestic strength sewage means sewage which has a BOD concentration no greater than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration no greater than 250 mg/l and no unusual levels of other pollutants.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Industrial waste means the liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes, trades or businesses as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface water or groundwater.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters, surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
Storm drain (sometimes termed "storm sewer") means a sewer which carries stormwaters, surface waters and draining, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Superintendent means the superintendent of waterworks of the city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1976, § 19-40)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 86-123. - Deposit of objectionable waste in an unsanitary manner.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Code 1976, § 19-41)
Sec. 86-124. - Discharge of untreated polluted waters to natural outlet.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-42)
Sec. 86-125. - Unapproved construction or maintenance of privy, etc.
Except as provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Code 1976, § 19-43)
Sec. 86-126. - Toilet facilities; connection to sanitary sewer.
The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is required, at his expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Code 1976, § 19-44)
Sec. 86-127. - User charge system.
(a)
Generally.
(1)
Established. All persons discharging wastewater into the city public sewer shall be charged a sewer service charge which shall recover the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of the wastewater treatment facilities and sewer system, the local share of the capital costs of the treatment facility and the costs of other capital improvements of the sewage facilities.
(2)
Basis of user charges. The required annual revenue from sewer charges shall include the following:
a.
Billing costs.
b.
Operation and maintenance costs.
c.
Debt service.
1.
The sewer user charge for residential users shall be based on water used in each billing month.
2.
Industrial users shall be charged on the basis of water used monthly or sewage metered monthly throughout the year. For high strength wastes, a surcharge will be applied as established in subsection (a)(2)c.1.ii. of this section:
i.
Billing charge. A billing charge divided equally among the billing periods will be assessed.
ii.
Operation and maintenance. The required annual revenue for operation and maintenance will be obtained from user charges and industrial surcharges. Anticipated income from industrial surcharges will be deducted from the required operation and maintenance revenue and the remainder of the required revenue will be collected from users at the calculated operation and maintenance user charge rate as follows:
User charge rate for operation and maintenance = OM — S / Q
EXPAND
Where: OM = Annual operation and maintenance
S = Industrial surcharge
Q = Annual treatment facility flow
  There is no minimum charge for the operation and maintenance user charge.
iii.
Debt service. The required annual revenue for debt service will be obtained from service charges as set in a rate ordinance.
(b)
Industrial wastewater surcharges.
(1)
Established. All industrial contributors whose wastewater discharges exceed 200 mg/l BOD and/or 200 mg/l suspended solids shall be assessed a surcharge in addition to the user charge. The charge shall be based on the proportionally higher BOD and suspended solids concentration the industry contributes to the wastewater treatment facility in excess of 200 mg/l BOD and total suspended solids (TSS).
(2)
Basis of surcharge. The annual operation and maintenance costs for each year will be allocated as follows:
EXPAND
Flow cost = 50 percent operation and maintenance cost
BOD cost = 40 percent operation and maintenance cost
SS cost = 10 percent operation and maintenance cost
  The expected average daily load at the plant for the subsequent year will be determined based on previous experience.
(3)
Rate of surcharge. The surcharge rate is determined as follows:
EXPAND
BOD surcharge/lb. =   BOD O&M Cost
365 × BOD lb./day plant
TSS surcharge/lb. =   TSS O&M Cost
365 × TSS lb./day plant
  (4)
Surcharge calculation. The surcharge shall be calculated as follows:
Surcharge = Q × 8.33 [(BODi ;minus; 200) × BODR + (TSSi ;minus; 200) × TSSR]
EXPAND
Where: Q = Industry flow in billing period
BODi = Industry average BOD in billing period
TSSi = Industry average TSS in billing period
BODR = BOD surcharge rate from subsection (b)(3) of this section
TSSR = TSS surcharge rate from subsection (b)(3) of this section
  (5)
Surcharge rate amendment. The surcharge rate will be analyzed annually at the same time as user charges are being reviewed and if adjustment of the rates is justified, new rates will be set by aldermanic board action.
(6)
Monitoring. Monitoring of industrial wastewater will be performed by the city at the control manhole, as required by this Code. Monitoring will primarily include measurement of flow and analysis of a composite sample for five-day BOD, and for total suspended solids of industrial discharges with concentrations of nonsanitary/domestic flows.
a.
When discharge of unusual concentrations of other pollutants, such as phosphorus and nitrogen compounds, or toxic pollutants is possible, the city will periodically have additional analyses performed to determine the concentrations of those pollutants which it is possible for the industry to discharge.
b.
Flow will be metered either as the water used by the industry or the wastewater discharged by the industry. Wastewater discharge will be metered only when the industry has provided an effluent flow meter including recorder and totalizer.
c.
The frequency of analysis for biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids will be based on daily discharge and will be as follows:
EXPAND
Industry Flow (gpd) Analysis Frequency
25,000—100,000 Monthly
100,000—300,000 Semimonthly
300,000—1,000,000 Weekly
Over 1,000,000 Semiweekly
  1.
Adoption. A rate ordinance based on the user charge system as set forth in this section shall be adopted to recover costs for administration, operation and maintenance, debt service and miscellaneous expenses of the sewage system.
2.
Amendments. The rate ordinance shall be reviewed annually and amended, as necessary, to generate adequate revenue to offset all expenses of the sewage system.
3.
Notification. All users shall be notified at least annually of the rates in effect for sewer service, including a breakdown of the portion of the rate which is attributable to operation and maintenance costs. Such notice shall be transmitted to the user with a monthly bill.
(Code 1976, § 19-45)
Sec. 86-128. - Sewer rates.
Sewer rates for the following usage categories shall be in an amount set forth in the schedule of fees and charges:
(1)
Residential.
(2)
Commercial.
(3)
Hotels, motels, hospitals and nursing homes.
(4)
Industrial.
(5)
Municipal.
(Code 1976, § 19-46; Ord. of 12-17-1990; Ord. of 12-16-1991; Ord. of 12-21-1992; Ord. of 12-20-1993; Ord. of 12-19-1994; Ord. of 12-18-1995; Ord. of 12-16-1996; Ord. of 12-21-1998; Ord. of 12-20-1999)
Sec. 86-129. - Furnishing sewage service to residents.
The aldermanic board, by and through its agents and departments, may provide for the furnishing of a sewage system service to each and every resident of the city, and each and every resident of the city shall be required to accept such service and pay for such service, provided it is furnished by the city, as is otherwise provided in this Code.
(Code 1976, § 19-47)
Secs. 86-130—86-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 86-151. - Where authorized.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions of section 86-126, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 19-50)
Sec. 86-152. - Permit to construct—Required; fee.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city clerk. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the city clerk. A permit and inspection fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1976, § 19-51)
Sec. 86-153. - Same—Effective on completion; inspection.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city clerk. The city clerk shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and the applicant for the permit shall notify the city clerk when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions of such system are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice by the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 19-52)
Sec. 86-154. - Compliance with department of health recommendations; minimum subsurface soil absorption facilities; prohibited discharge to natural outlet.
The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of public health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Code 1976, § 19-53)
Sec. 86-155. - Abandoning and filling when public sewer available—Required.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage disposal system as provided in section 86-154, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Code 1976, § 19-54)
Sec. 86-156. - Same—Maximum time for public sewer connection; cleaning and filling.
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to such sewer within 60 days, and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Code 1976, § 19-55)
Sec. 86-157. - Manner of operation and maintenance.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-56)
Sec. 86-158. - Additional requirements not precluded.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state and county health officers.
(Code 1976, § 19-57)
Secs. 86-159—86-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 86-181. - Uncovering, connecting, etc., without permit.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city clerk.
(Code 1976, § 19-60)
Sec. 86-182. - Classes of permits—Fees.
(a)
Classes. There shall be four classes of building sewer permits:
(1)
Residential.
(2)
Commercial services.
(3)
Motels, hotels, hospitals and nursing homes.
(4)
Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In all cases, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the public works superintendent. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the public works superintendent.
(b)
Tap fees. Sewer tap fees shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
Note. Industries or others having sewage with industrial wastewater characteristics, i.e., high BOD, high suspended solids or other pollutants in quantities not normally found in domestic sewage, shall have a permit, inspection and tap-in fee negotiated with the city, based on the discharger's waste load in comparison with the design capacity of the facility.
(c)
Capital cost recovery fee. For initial connections to the city sewer system in those areas of the city annexed by the city after December 15, 1996, the city is authorized to charge each new user a capital cost recovery fee in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for each new equivalent residential unit connected to the city sewer system.
(Code 1976, § 19-61; Ord. of 12-17-1990; Ord. of 1-1-1998; Ord. of 7-6-1998, § II)
Sec. 86-183. - Same—Residential.
There shall be paid to the city prior to connection to the municipal sewage system, a permit, inspection and sewer tap base fee as established by the aldermanic board, per dwelling unit, as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. This permit, inspection and sewer tap fee shall be paid for the privilege of using the municipal sewage system. Should a building, dwelling or other structure used for residential purposes contain more than one dwelling unit, then the permit, inspection and tap-in fee shall be computed by multiplying the total number of individual dwelling units within such building, dwelling or other structure by the base permit inspection tap fee. The product of this multiplication shall be the total charge for the permit, inspection and sewer tap fee for the connection of the building, dwelling or other structure to the municipal sewage system. Each individual dwelling unit shall have an individual and separate sewer service line connected directly to the city municipal sewage system. Every dwelling unit so desiring connection to the municipal sewage system shall extend its individual sewer service line to the end of the property line upon which the dwelling is situated. The service line shall extend from the dwelling at a perpendicular angle to the dwelling and extend in a straight line directly as practicable to the municipal sewer system. The sewer service line shall connect to the municipal sewer system. The permittee shall provide all equipment, labor and materials to excavate, tap the sewer, install the pipe and properly backfill, including street repair.
(Code 1976, § 19-61.1)
Sec. 86-184. - Same—Commercial.
Commercial permit, inspection and tap fees shall be a base fee plus an established amount per 1,000 gallons of anticipated monthly water use over 8,000 gallons per month. The permittee shall provide the equipment, labor and materials to excavate, tap the sewer, bed and install the pipe and properly backfill the excavation, including adequate compaction.
(Code 1976, § 19-61.2)
Sec. 86-185. - Same—Motels, hotels, hospitals and nursing homes.
(a)
Permit, inspection and sewer tap fees for hotels, motels, hospitals and nursing homes shall be a base fee plus a fee per room as established by the aldermanic board. The contractor shall provide the equipment, labor and materials to excavate, tap the sewer, bed and install the pipe and properly backfill the excavation, including adequate compaction. The city will provide repair of the street in the tap area.
(b)
In the case of motels, hotels, hospitals and nursing homes, each individual unit need not have an individual and separate sewer service line, but may connect to an approved master sewer service line. Every motel, hotel, hospital and nursing home shall extend the master sewer service line to the property line upon which the motel, hotel, hospital or nursing home is situated. The master line shall extend from the facility at a perpendicular angle to the structure and extend in a straight line directly as practicable to the municipal sewer system. The master sewer service line shall connect to the municipal sewer system in a perpendicular angle to the municipal sewer system.
(Code 1976, § 19-61.3)
Sec. 86-186. - Same—Industrial sewer service.
(a)
Industries discharging domestic strength sewage shall have a permit, inspection and tap fee (base fee) plus a fee per 1,000 gallons of anticipated monthly water use over 8,000 gallons per month. The contractor shall provide all equipment, labor and materials to excavate, tap the sewer, bed and install the pipe and properly backfill the excavation, including adequate compaction and street repair.
(b)
Industries having sewage with industrial wastewater characteristics (i.e., high BOD, high suspended solids or other pollutants in quantities not normally found in domestic sewage) shall have a permit, inspection and tap fee negotiated with the city, based on the discharger's waste load in comparison with the design capacity of the facilities. Pretreatment of the industrial wastes may be required if certain pollutants are not considered amenable to treatment in the treatment facility.
(c)
All industrial users shall comply with the federal pretreatment requirements of 4 CFR 403.
(Code 1976, § 19-61.4)
Sec. 86-187. - Responsibility for costs; indemnification.
All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-62)
Sec. 86-188. - Separate building sewers.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-63)
Sec. 86-189. - Use of old building sewer.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with a new building only when they are found, on examination and test by the public works superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-64)
Sec. 86-190. - Installation specifications generally.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Code 1976, § 19-65)
Sec. 86-191. - Elevation.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-66)
Sec. 86-192. - Connection of downspouts, etc.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-67)
Sec. 86-193. - Connection specifications.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city or in amplification thereof the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city clerk before installation.
(Code 1976, § 19-68)
Sec. 86-194. - Inspection and supervision of connection.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the public works superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the public works superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 19-69)
Sec. 86-195. - Protection at excavations; street restoration.
All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1976, § 19-70)
Sec. 86-196. - Extensions of the water and sewage system.
(a)
Approved by city engineer. There shall be no extension of the water and sewage system of the city to a development or subdivision of land until such time as the plans for such extension have been submitted and approved by the city engineer. The city engineer may require the submission of such plans, specifications and other information considered pertinent in his judgment in order to reach a decision that is in the best interest of the citizens of the city.
(b)
Approval criteria. In determining whether the plan of extension of the water and sewage system should be approved, the city engineer shall consider, but not be limited to, the following factors:
(1)
The cost to the city for the extension of the sewage system;
(2)
The benefits which the city would derive by the extension of the sewage system;
(3)
An examination of the adequacy of the design plans for the extension of the water and sewage system and possible adverse impact upon the city's present water and sewage system.
(c)
Approval or nonapproval; time limit. Any plans submitted to the city engineer for the extension of the water and sewage system shall receive approval or nonapproval within six months of submission of the plan.
(d)
Costs to be borne by party desiring extension. All costs for the submission of the extension plan, its approval and cost of final inspection by the city engineer shall be paid by the party desiring the extension of the city's water and sewage system.
(e)
Connections to properties not adjacent to line. The city may make connections to serve other properties not adjacent to its line upon payment of a reasonable cost for the extension of its distribution and collection lines as may be required to render such services.
The city shall not extend water mains or sewer lines at the expense of the general public, but such mains and lines shall be extended at the expense of the developer or property owner requesting an extension. Any extension of either water or sewage mains shall be sized and installed in accordance with the requirements and specifications then in use by the public works department as may be amended by resolution of the city.
(f)
Payment-in-aid-of-construction. The aldermanic board is authorized to provide for the extension of any water and sewer line to be at the expense of the resident, owner or other party receiving benefit of the service extension. This payment shall be defined as a "payment-in-aid-of-construction." Such payment-in-aid-of-construction shall be paid to the city prior to the extension or prior to the furnishing of such water or sewer services to such resident, developer, owner or other party receiving benefit of the extension of service. The amount of such payment-in-aid-of-construction shall be fixed in a schedule on each extension of service by the aldermanic board, by resolution as they shall direct from time to time.
(Code 1976, § 19-71)
Sec. 86-197. - Aid-to-construction fee.
(a)
In order to connect to the city's wastewater utility system, all new sewer customers shall pay an aid-to-construction fee, in addition to any tap fee, capital cost recovery fee, existing aid-to-construction fee or other required fee. The aid-to-construction fee shall be paid prior to connecting to the city's wastewater system. A written agreement between the city and each user will be executed upon payment of fees and prior to construction of the facilities.
(b)
The initial aid-to-construction fees shall be set by the aldermanic board in an amount as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges per gallon of estimated water consumption per day, as set forth in the table in this section, subject to change as the aldermanic board shall, by resolution, direct from time to time.
(c)
The aid-to-construction fee shall be calculated according to the average daily consumption of each type of establishment as outlined in the table in this section. The standards in the table set forth in this section shall be used in determination of estimated water consumption. If the table in this section does not provide information for a particular application, the estimated water consumption shall be as calculated by the city manager or the city's consulting engineer.
EXPAND
Type of Structure Water Usage in
Gallons Per Day
Apartment, one bedroom, per apartment 150
Assembly hall, per seat 3
Barbershop/beauty parlor, per chair 125
Bars:
Each employee 10
Each seat, excluding restaurant 40
Bowling alley, per lane 50
Additional for bars, lounges and/or restaurant
Church, without daycare or kindergarten, per seat 5
Clinic, per exam room 150
Convenience store, per 1,000 square feet 350
Correctional institution, per bed 125
Daycare center, no meals, per person 15
Dental office, per chair 200
Factories, each employee, per employee: 25
With showers, add, per employee 10
With kitchen, add, per employee 15
Food service establishments with restrooms and kitchen:
(1) Restaurant, less than 24 hours per day operation, per seat 32
(2) Cafeteria, less than 24 hours per day operation, per seat 63
(3) Restaurant, 24 hours per day operation, per seat 100
(4) Drive-in restaurant, per car space 50
(5) Carry-out only, per 100 square feet 75
Hospital, per bed 250
Hotel, no kitchen, per room 100
Kindergarten, no meals, per person 15
Kitchen for daycare, kindergarten, per person 20
Laundry, self-service, per machine 200
Laundry, commercial, per machine 1,000
Mobile home park, per site 300
Motel, no kitchen, per room 100
Nursing home, per bed 150
Office, per 200 square feet 30
Pharmacy 500
Physician's office, per exam room 200
Residences, includes two-bedroom apartment and larger, condominiums, duplexes, single-family dwelling, per dwelling unit
300
Retail/shopping center, per 100 square feet 10
Schools:
(1) Boarding, per person 100
(2) Day, restrooms only, per person 15
(3) Day, restrooms and cafeteria, per person 20
(4) Day, restrooms, gyms and cafeteria, per person 25
Stadium, per seat 2
Theater, per seat 5
  (Ord. of 2-7-2000, § I; Ord. of 9-17-2018(1), §§ I, II )
State Law reference— Georgia Development Impact Fee Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-71-1.
Secs. 86-198—86-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2.

Sec. 86-221. - Discharge of unpolluted waters—To sanitary sewer.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Code 1976, § 19-75)
Sec. 86-222. - Same—To combined sewers, etc.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the public works superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the public works superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Code 1976, § 19-76)
Sec. 86-223. - Prohibited discharges to public sewers—Absolutely.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
(2)
Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantities, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interferences with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(5)
Any of the following toxic materials in excess of the maximum allowable concentrations listed in milligrams per liter:
EXPAND
a. Ammonia—Nitrogen 20 mg/l
b. BOD 250 mg/l
c. COD 500 mg/l
d. Fat, oil and grease 100 mg/l
e. Total suspended solids 225 mg/l
f. Total toxic organics 2.13 mg/l
g. Cyanide (total) 0.082 mg/l
h. Arsenic 0.007 mg/l
i. Cadmium 0.008 mg/l
j. Chromium 0.034 mg/l
k. Copper 0.109 mg/l
l. Lead 0.116 mg/l
m. Mercury 0.002 mg/l
n. Nickel 0.047 mg/l
o. Silver 0.019 mg/l
p. Zinc 0.212 mg/l
  (Code 1976, § 19-77; Ord. of 7-6-1998, §§ III, IV)
Sec. 86-224. - Same—Conditionally.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the public works superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the public works superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
(1)
Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit or 65 degrees Celsius, or any liquid or vapor in such quantities that the temperature at the treatment works influent exceeds 104 degrees Fahrenheit or 40 degrees Celsius.
(2)
Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l, or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees Fahrenheit or zero and 65 degrees Celsius.
(3)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipment with a motor of three-fourths horsepower (0.76 horsepower metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the public works superintendent.
(4)
Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such a degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the public works superintendent for such materials.
(6)
Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste-producing or odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be established by the public works superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
(7)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the public works superintendent in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(8)
Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
(9)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids such as, but not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.
b.
Excessive discoloration such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
c.
Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
d.
Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting slugs.
(10)
Water or wastes having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 250 parts per million by weight on a 24-hour composite basis.
(11)
Water or wastes having a suspended solids content in excess of 250 parts per million by weight on a 24-hour composite basis.
(12)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Code 1976, § 19-78)
Sec. 86-225. - Same—Rejection; imposing requirements.
(a)
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 86-224, and which in the judgment of the public works superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the public works superintendent may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of section 86-230.
(b)
If the public works superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the public works superintendent and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Code 1976, § 19-79)
Sec. 86-226. - Interceptors.
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the public works superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the public works superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Code 1976, § 19-80)
Sec. 86-227. - Maintenance of preliminary treatment and flow-equalizing facilities.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner, at his expense.
(Code 1976, § 19-81)
Sec. 86-228. - Control manholes, etc.
When required by the public works superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the public works superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner, at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1976, § 19-82)
Sec. 86-229. - Measurements; tests; analyses.
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. If no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether grab samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24 composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
(Code 1976, § 19-83)
Sec. 86-230. - Special agreements not precluded.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Code 1976, § 19-84)
Secs. 86-231—86-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 86-251. - Right of entry—Granted to city personnel.
The public works superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 19-90)
Sec. 86-252. - Same—Observance of safety rules.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in section 86-251, the public works superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
(Code 1976, § 19-91)
Sec. 86-253. - Acts constituting disorderly conduct.
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1976, § 19-92)
Sec. 86-254. - Violation; penalty.
Any person violating this article, shall upon conviction in the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1976, § 19-93)
Sec. 86-255. - Liability for damage.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Code 1976, § 19-94)
Sec. 86-256. - Food service establishment waste cooking oil rules and regulations.
(a)
Declaration of purpose. The overall goal of these rules and regulations is to prevent and control pollution, to protect human health and the environment, and to prevent odor or other cleanliness-related nuisances. The specific purpose of this section is to prevent the discharge of any pollutant into the sanitary sewer system, the storm sewer system, or surface waters, which would obstruct or damage the sanitary sewer or stormwater collection systems; interfere with, inhibit, or disrupt the city's water reclamation plants, wastewater treatment processes, operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; pass through the treatment and/or collection system and contribute to violations of the regulatory requirements and limitations placed upon the city; or result in or threaten harm to human health or the deterioration of the environment.
(b)
Definitions.
Food service establishment. Any commercial facility including restaurants, coffee (brew) shops motels, hotels, cafeterias, hospitals, schools, bars, churches, event halls, etc. and any other facility which, in the city official's opinion, would require installation of a waste cooking oil interceptor by virtue of its operation in discharging kitchen or food preparation waste.
Grease. All substances and byproducts which are employed in, created by or derived from a food preparation activity by which a residue of cooking grease or related substances results from those activities which accumulate and are in need of disposal by procedures for storage and removal during or at the conclusion of any cooking operation or activity.
Interceptor. A container for storing waste cooking oil, placed on the inside of the food service establishment, subject to collection and disposal by a waste cooking oil collector.
Waste cooking oil. Also known as tallow, waste vegetable oil, and/or renderable fats, oil and grease, used in food preparation that have not been in contact with or contaminated with other sources such as water, wastewater or solid waste. An example of waste cooking oil is fryer oil, which can be recycled into products such as animal feed, cosmetics, and alternative fuel.
Waste cooking oil collector. Means any person engaged in the loading or vehicular transport of waste cooking oil as part of, or incidental to, any business for that purpose.
(c)
Administration. This policy is administered by the code enforcement department.
(d)
Applicability of policy. This policy shall apply to all food service establishments as defined herein and to all waste cooking oil collectors providing service to any such food service establishments. In the event a conflict occurs between the interpretation of language herein and any standards of the sewer use and pretreatment ordinances and stormwater discharge limitations ordinance, the sewer director, with concurrence of the city attorney, shall provide the correct interpretation. In addition, section 86-223(5)(d) prohibits any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/L or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees and 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
All grease handling facilities and operations within any food service establishment shall be subject to periodic review, evaluation and inspection by the code enforcement department at any time. Results of inspections will be made available to the owner of the establishment.
(e)
Waste cooking oil recycling. The city requires the recycling of waste cooking oil.
No person shall dispose of any oil, or cause any oil to be disposed, by discharge into any drainage piping, by discharge into any public or private sanitary sewer, by discharge into any storm drainage system, or by discharge to any land, street, public way, river, stream or other waterway. Waste cooking oil shall be segregated and stored in compliance with state and local health codes.
(f)
Waste cooking oil storage interceptor. Waste cooking oil shall be stored in an interceptor and located within the food service establishment. Waste from garbage disposals should not be discharged into the interceptor. All interceptors shall be supplied, installed properly and continuously maintained in a satisfactory and effective operational manner by the owner at the owner's expense.
(g)
Maintenance and operation of grease handling. Owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material, with a minimum frequency of six times per year for interceptors that are 1,000 gallons or more. Interceptors that are under 1,000 gallon capacity in existing establishments, approved prior to this ordinance, must be pumped out one time per month or bi-weekly, as determined by the code enforcement department. The owner shall maintain on-site records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to periodic review by the code enforcement department to ensure routine and adequate system maintenance. Any removal and hauling of the collected material not performed by the owner must be performed by a licensed waste cooking oil collector. Exclusive use of enzymes or other grease solvents, emulsifiers, etc. is not an acceptable maintenance practice.
Any food service establishment's interceptor whose effluent is perceived to contain a concentration of greater than 100 mg/L of oil and grease is required to property pump out and clean the interceptor within 24 hours and a sample of the interceptor effluent is required to be routinely sampled at the owner's expense. A copy of the analysis must be furnished to the code enforcement department.
Food service establishments whose operations cause or allow excessive grease to discharge or accumulate in the sewer collection system are liable to the city for all costs related to the removal of the blockage, line clearing, line/pump repairs, etc., including all labor, material and equipment. Failure to pay all service related charges may result in water service being disconnected.
(h)
Construction standards; new facilities. Any newly constructed food service establishment shall be required to install a grease interceptor. Plans and specifications must be submitted to the code enforcement department for review and approval, upon which, a permit will be issued.
Interceptors shall be sized at 20 gallons per seat, or a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons and must be singular or in series and directly accessible from the surface, with an extended outlet sanitary tee that terminates six to 12 inches above the tank floor. Minimum access opening shall be 18 inches by 18 inches. Where the total sewage flow exceeds 1,500 GPD, service fixtures must be either two-chamber or individual tanks, in series. If two-chamber, the dividing wall must be equipped with an extended elbow or sanitary tee, terminating six to 12 inches above the tank flow. An extended outlet sanitary tee must also be provided at the outlet of the second chamber, with both chambers being directly accessible from the surface. Construction and location of interceptors shall be in accordance with the environmental protection agency guidelines. All interceptors must be inspected and approved prior to any food service establishment receiving a certificate of occupancy.
(i)
Requirements for existing/remodeled food service establishments. All existing food service establishments must have grease-handling interceptors approved by the code enforcement department. Establishments being remodeled which do not contain any interceptor will be provided 60 days from notification by the sewer department to install the proper interceptor in compliance with subsection (h).
(j)
Enforcement. Failure to comply with the provisions herein may be grounds for penalty and/or disconnection of service. Additionally, failure to comply will be reported to the Georgia Department of Public Health Chatham County Environmental Health.
(k)
Violations. Any person or entity that violates the provisions of this section of this article may be punished up to the maximum allowed under this Code.
(Ord. of 8-16-2010, § I; Ord. of 1-22-2019, § I ; Ord. of 3-5-2019(2), § I )
