Chapter 6.16 - HOLDING MORE THAN ONE POSITION

6.16.010 - Holding more than one full-time position—Conditions.
No person employed by the county shall hold more than one full-time position, nor shall any person hold two or more part-time positions which, in the aggregate, exceed full-time, except as follows:
A.
Any person employed on a full-time basis may also be employed in temporary positions, provided that the director of personnel finds that all of the following conditions exist:
1.
It is impractical to recruit sufficient qualified employees from outside the service;
2.
Employment on the part-time position is outside the regular hours the employee works in his full-time position;
3.
It is in the best interest of the county to utilize the skills of its employees in the part-time position;
4.
The duties of the part-time position do not conflict in any way with those of the regular full-time position.
B.
Supplemental temporary work under subsection A above may not exceed 24 hours in any one calendar week except in the case of persons employed in Postgraduate Physician classifications, in which case such supplemental temporary work may not exceed a maximum of 96 hours in any one calendar month.
C.
Any person holding one full-time position, or part-time positions which equal full-time, may hold, at the same time, a position without compensation.
D.
Any person on military leave may hold a temporary county position while on furlough.
E.
If the board finds that the welfare of the county will be promoted by permitting a person employed in a full-time position to also hold another position, full-time or otherwise, such person may hold both positions until the board revokes such finding so long as he waives and does not accept any compensation for one of such positions. This subsection E applies only where at least one of such positions is that of a department head as defined in Section 2.02.190 of this code. Such person shall devote to the duties of such two positions the time required of that position making the greater time requirement.
F.
All authorizations for persons employed on a full-time basis to be also employed on a part-time position under the provisions of subsection A above are subject to annual renewal by the director of personnel.
(Ord. 6222 Ch. 1 Art. 9 § 170, 1953.)
