Chapter 20.60 - ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

20.60.010 - Powers and duties designated.
The enforcement agency shall:
A.
Enforce all provisions of this Division 4, the Z'berg-Kapiloff Solid Waste Control Act of 1976, and the regulations adopted thereunder, and under Section 66770 pertaining to the minimum standards for solid-waste handling and disposal for the protection of air, water and land from pollution and nuisance, and for the protection of the public health;
B.
Coordinate action in solid-waste handling and disposal with other federal, state and local agencies and private persons;
C.
Request enforcement, by appropriate federal, state and local agencies, of their respective laws governing solid-waste storage, handling and disposal;
D.
Keep and maintain records of its inspection, enforcement, training and regulatory programs, and of any other official action in accordance with regulations adopted by the board.
(Ord. 11886 Art. 4 § 401, 1979.)
20.60.020 - Maintenance of files—Contents—List available for public inspection.
A.
The enforcement agency shall maintain a file on each solid-waste facility and each waste collector that has been granted a permit or that is or has been the subject of an application for a permit. The file on each solid-waste facility and each waste collector shall contain all applications, permits, notices, orders, reports, correspondence and other relevant documents. However, the enforcement agency shall separately maintain all papers relating to the solid-waste facility or waste collector for which a request for confidential treatment has been made, and such papers shall be suitably protected until such time as it has been determined that confidential treatment is not required.
B.
The enforcement agency shall maintain a current list of all files it maintains. The list shall be available for public inspection upon request.
C.
All papers in the files shall be retained by the enforcement agency for at least six years.
(Ord. 11886 Art. 4 § 404, 1979.)
