Chapter 12.20 - DEPOSITING PETROLEUM PRODUCTS ON BEACHES OR INTO PACIFIC OCEAN

12.20.010 - Depositing petroleum products in Pacific Ocean waters or on beaches prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, place, throw, divert or in any manner dispose of, or to cause or permit to be deposited, placed, thrown, diverted or in any manner disposed of, within the unincorporated territory of Los Angeles county, any crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil, or any oily byproduct thereof, or any tar or any product containing tar, or any oily substance, into or upon the waters of the Pacific Ocean, or into or upon the waters of any lagoon, bay, inlet or tributary thereof; or to deposit, place, throw, divert or in any manner dispose of, or to cause or permit to be deposited, placed, thrown, diverted or in any manner disposed of any crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil, or any oily byproduct thereof, or any tar or any product containing tar, or any oily substance, upon any beach, tideland or submerged land, or any portion thereof, within the unincorporated territory of said county of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 1568 § 1, 1928.)
12.20.020 - Depositing petroleum products on certain land areas prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, place, throw, divert, keep, maintain or in any manner dispose of, or to cause or permit to be deposited, placed, thrown, diverted, kept, maintained, or in any manner disposed of any crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil, or any oily byproduct thereof, or any tar, or any product containing tar, or any oily substance into, along or upon any land, premises or place within the unincorporated territory of the county of Los Angeles in such a manner that the same, or any portion thereof, may run or be transferred or carried to, or be in any manner deposited upon or conveyed to any beach, tideland or submerged land, or any portion thereof, or into or upon the waters of the Pacific Ocean, or into or upon the waters of any lagoon, bay, inlet or tributary thereof.
(Ord. 1568 § 2, 1928.)
12.20.030 - Discharging certain substances from ships or barges prohibited—Exception.
A.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, managing, controlling, operating, navigating or otherwise handling any boat, vessel, ship or barge used, or having been used, for the transportation, in bulk, of crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil or any oily byproduct thereof, other than gasoline, distillate, tops or other similar volatile product, to discharge, or to cause or permit to be discharged, from such boat, vessel, ship or barge any ballast water, bilge water or wastewater containing or contaminated with any such crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil or oily byproduct within the unincorporated territory of the county of Los Angeles, unless such ballast water, bilge water or wastewater is discharged into suitable and adequate settling basins, tanks or other receptacles.
B.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, managing, controlling, operating, navigating or otherwise handling any boat, vessel, ship or barge using fuel oil for the generation of power, to discharge, or to cause or permit to be discharged from such boat, vessel, ship or barge any bilge water or wastewater containing or contaminated with any such fuel oil within the unincorporated territory of the county of Los Angeles, unless the same is discharged into suitable and adequate settling basins, tanks or other receptacles.
C.
Provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not be deemed nor construed to require any such ballast water, bilge water or wastewater to be discharged into any such settling basin, tank or other receptacle if such ballast water, bilge water or wastewater, before the discharging thereof, shall have been passed through or treated by some adequate oil-separating device or process, and such crude petroleum, refined petroleum, engine oil, oil byproduct or fuel oil is separated or removed therefrom.
(Ord. 1759 § 1, 1929: Ord. 1568 § 2 1/2, 1928.)
12.20.040 - Dumping or maintaining offensive or injurious substances prohibited where.
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to deposit, place, throw or in any manner dispose of any dead animal or any portion thereof, or any vegetable or animal matter, or any offal, night soil, manure, rubbish, trash, garbage, or any decaying or putrid matter, material or substance, or any matter, material or substance which might decay or become putrid, or any matter, material or substance which is or might become injurious to health, or which is or might become a nuisance or offensive to the senses of any persons coming in proximity thereto, into the waters of the Pacific Ocean, or into the waters of any lagoon, bay, inlet or tributary thereof, or in, upon or along any beach, tideland or submerged land, or any portion thereof, within the unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County; or to keep or maintain, or to cause or permit to be kept or maintained upon any premises, or in or at any place in the unincorporated territory of Los Angeles County any article, substance or thing hereinabove in this section enumerated, in such a manner that any such article, substance or thing, or any portion thereof, may be transferred or carried to, or be in any manner deposited upon or conveyed to any beach, tideland or submerged land, or any portion thereof, or into or upon the waters of the Pacific Ocean, or into or upon the waters of any lagoon, bay, inlet or tributary thereof.
(Ord. 1568 § 3, 1928.)
12.20.050 - Violation—Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500.00, or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each separate day or any portion thereof during which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense, and upon conviction therefor shall be punishable as herein provided.
(Ord. 1568 § 4, 1928.)
