110.1.1
Buildings are not permitted in an area determined by the Building Official to be subject to flood hazard by reason of inundation, overflow or erosion.
The placement of the building and other structures (including walls and fences) on the building site shall be such that water or mud flow will not be a hazard to the building or adjacent property. Subject to the conditions of Section 110.1.2, this prohibition shall not apply when provision is made to eliminate such hazard to the satisfaction of the Building Official by providing adequate drainage facilities by protective walls, suitable fill, raising the floor level of the building, a combination of these methods, or by other means. The Building Official, in the application of this Section for buildings, structures, and grading located in whole or in part in flood hazard areas, shall enforce, as a minimum, the current Federal Flood Plain Management Regulations defined in Title 44, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 60.3, and may require the applicant or property owner to provide the following information and/or comply with the following provisions:
1.
Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood zones, and the design flood elevation, as appropriate;
2.
The elevation of the proposed lowest floor, including basement, in flood hazard areas (A Zones), and the height of the proposed lowest floor, including basement, above the highest adjacent grade;
3.
The elevation of the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member in coastal high hazard areas (V Zone);
4.
If the design flood elevations are not included on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), then the applicant shall obtain and reasonably utilize any design flood elevation and floodway data available from other sources, as approved by the Building Official; and
5.
During construction, upon placement of the lowest floor, including basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the permittee shall provide to the Building Official documentation, prepared and sealed by a registered design professional, certifying the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement.
(Ord. 2013-0048 § 2, 2013; Ord. 2010-0053 § 2, 2010; Ord. 95-0065 § 3 (part), 1995.)
*  Editor's note: Volume 5 of the Los Angeles County Code contains the Flood Control District Code.
