Part 8 - SAFETY AND MAINTENANCE

19.12.1150 - Hazardous lights prohibited.
It is unlawful for a person responsible for same to place, erect or install within a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility any light fixtures in such manner as to constitute a hazard to operators of vessels in navigating at night.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 805, 1967.)
19.12.1160 - Flammable or combustible liquids and materials—Restrictions applicable.
A.
Within a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, no person shall sell, offer for sale or deliver in bulk any class of flammable liquid or combustible material, nor dispense any flammable or combustible liquids into the fuel tanks of a vessel except when in compliance with all requirements of the Los Angeles County Fire Code (set out at Title 32 of this code), and any other laws or regulations applicable thereto.
B.
It is unlawful for a person to store, transfer, handle or use any flammable liquids or combustible materials on any vessel, dock, float or wharf in a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility except under the following conditions:
1.
The storage of Class I flammable liquid within closed storage container or cabinet shall be limited to three gallons in aggregate capacity;
2.
Flammable liquids when stored shall be in an approved safety container; for purposes of this section, "approved safety containers" means metal or plastic containers approved by the National Board of Fire Underwriters;
3.
The storage of combustible liquids within a closed storage container or cabinet shall be limited to six gallons in aggregate capacity; and
4.
A person shall first obtain a permit from the fire department to handle or use any flammable liquid or combustible liquid in excess of the quantities mentioned in subparagraphs 1 and 3 of this subsection B.
C.
It is unlawful for a person to leave or store on any dock, float, wharf of a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility any empty tanks and containers previously used for flammable or combustible liquids, unless free from explosive vapors, except that empty approved safety containers may be kept in storage.
D.
It is unlawful for a person to use any Class I flammable liquid except as a fuel, within a vessel moored to any dock, float, wharf of a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility.
(Ord. 86-0039 § 46, 1986: Ord. 10783 § 3, 1973: Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 801, 1967.)
19.12.1170 - Welding, burning or cutting prohibited—Exceptions.
At no time shall any person weld, burn or cut using any device or attachment facilitating welding, burning or cutting, nor use any type gas-welding, burning or cutting equipment on or within any vessel when moored or anchored within any county harbor, waterway or maritime facility, except when the vessel is moored or anchored within an area that has been designated by the director as a commercial boat-repair yard. Such welding, burning or cutting shall be with the approval of the chief of the fire department under such regulations as he may require.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 806, 1967.)
19.12.1180 - Walkways—Obstructions prohibited.
A.
A person shall not cause any mooring line, water hose, electrical cable or other service line to extend across a main walkway, or cause any obstacles such as ladders, tools, canvas, boat gear, or other materials or equipment to obstruct free passage along any walkway, finger float or gangway, or create any hazardous condition which could cause accident or injury.
B.
No person shall leave or store on any walkway, finger float or gangway any rowboat, skiff, dory, dinghy, canoe, or other craft.
C.
Primary responsibility in keeping walkways clear rests with the person causing such obstruction, but in the absence of such person, or if the person causing such obstruction is unknown, then the lessee, agent or operator of such facility shall assume the responsibility and cause such obstructions to be corrected as is necessary.
(Ord. 86-0039 § 47, 1986: Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 802, 1967.)
19.12.1190 - Steps and stairs—Restrictions.
A.
Boarding steps, stairs, ramps, and ladders shall be constructed so as to be easily moved in emergency situations.
B.
Boarding steps, stairs, ramps, and ladders shall not occupy more than one-half of the width of the walkway or finger float, to allow for free passage.
C.
Boarding steps, ramps or ladders shall not be placed or located within the outermost five feet of any finger float so that emergency access may be had to the outer edge of the fingers at all times.
(Ord. 86-0039 § 48, 1986: Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 803, 1967.)
19.12.1200 - Defective or dangerous conditions—Remedy by county when—Costs.
Whenever any buildings, structures or floating facilities within a county harbor, waterway or maritime facility either on land or water are found to be defective or damaged so as to be unsafe or dangerous to persons or property, it shall be the duty of the owner, agent, lessee, operator or person in charge thereof to immediately post a proper notice and fence or barricade and at night to adequately light such unsafe area or areas, and such unsafe area or areas shall be kept posted and lighted and fenced or barricaded until the necessary repairs are made. In the event an owner, agent, lessee, operator or person in charge fails or neglects to repair or to put up fences or other barriers to prevent persons from using or going upon the unsafe area or areas, the director may then take such measures as he may deem necessary for the protection of the public and charge the cost of same to such owner, lessee, agent, person or persons having charge of the buildings, structures or floating facilities that are defective or dangerous.
(Ord. 9359 Art. 8 § 804, 1967.)
