Chapter 22.66 - CANNABIS

22.66.010 - Purpose and Intent.
Except for personal use of cannabis otherwise allowed under AUMA, this chapter prohibits any medical or non-medical cannabis businesses or activities until the County adopts a comprehensive regulatory framework for medical and non-medical cannabis, and imposes reasonable regulations regarding personal cannabis cultivation otherwise allowed by State law.
(Ord. 2017-0025 § 14, 2017.)
22.66.020 - Cannabis Businesses and Activities—Prohibited.
Except for personal use of cannabis otherwise allowed under AUMA, and personal cultivation as provided in Section 22.66.040, the establishment, maintenance, and/or operation of any cannabis business or activity is prohibited in all zones within the unincorporated area of the County of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 2017-0025 § 14, 2017.)
22.66.030 - Renting, Leasing, and Permitting Cannabis Businesses and Activities—Prohibited.
Except for personal use of cannabis otherwise allowed under AUMA, and personal cultivation as provided in Section 22.66.040, the renting, leasing, and/or permitting the use, of property for any cannabis business or activity is prohibited in all zones within the unincorporated area of the County of Los Angeles.
(Ord. 2017-0025 § 14, 2017.)
22.66.040 - Personal Cannabis Cultivation.
Personal cannabis cultivation may be established and maintained accessory to a legally established dwelling unit, as set forth in this chapter and under State law.
A.
Single-Family Residences and Detached Residential Condominium Projects. Cannabis for personal use may be cultivated at a single-family residence or a dwelling unit in a detached residential condominium project. The following standards apply to both indoor and outdoor cultivation:
1.
Cannabis cultivation shall not be visible from a public right-of-way, private drive, or fire lane.
2.
Cannabis cultivation areas shall be enclosed in a locked space.
3.
Cannabis cultivation shall be limited to six plants per residence, pursuant to AUMA. If a lot is legally improved with a single-family residence and an accessory dwelling unit, no more than six of the combined total number of plants may be cultivated outdoors upon the grounds on that lot.
4.
The following additional standards apply to outdoor cultivation:
a.
Cannabis cultivation shall be prohibited within 600 feet of any park, library, or school, as defined in California Health and Safety Code ("Health & Saf. Code") section 11362.768; day care center, as defined in Health & Saf. Code section 1596.76; or youth center, as defined in Health & Saf. Code section 11353.1;
b.
Cannabis cultivation shall be limited to a maximum of six plants per lot;
c.
Cannabis plants may not exceed a maximum height of six feet;
d.
Cannabis cultivation is prohibited within the required front yard setback;
e.
Cannabis cultivation at all times shall be located at least 10 feet from side yard and rear yard property lines; and
f.
Cannabis cultivation areas shall be located within an area that is enclosed and secured by a solid wall or fence and locked:
i.
All fences and walls shall be of a uniform height in relation to the ground upon which they stand and shall be a minimum of six feet in height, not to exceed the height limit of the zone, community standards district, or other more restrictive requirement applicable to the lot.
ii.
All fences and walls shall be constructed with masonry, wood, or similar materials as approved by the Director. Chain link fencing for the screening, enclosing, or securing of cannabis cultivation areas is prohibited.
iii.
All fences and walls shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner.
iv.
All fences and walls shall be a uniform neutral color, excluding black, which blends with the surrounding terrain and improvements, and shall be maintained in a neat, orderly condition at all times.
B.
All Other Residences. Two-family residences and dwelling units in an apartment house and attached residential condominium projects are expressly prohibited from establishing outdoor cannabis cultivation for personal use. Outdoor cannabis cultivation includes, but is not limited to, cultivation on balconies, patios, common areas, and walkways. Indoor cannabis cultivation is permitted subject to the following standards:
1.
Cannabis cultivation shall not be visible from a public right-of-way, private drive, or fire lane.
2.
Cannabis cultivation shall be limited to a maximum of six plants per dwelling unit.
3.
Cannabis cultivation areas shall be fully enclosed in a locked space.
(Ord. 2017-0025 § 14, 2017.)
