102.6 - Posting of signs for safety assessment.
The Building Official shall cause placard(s) to be posted on buildings upon completion of a safety assessment. The placard shall be posted at the main entrance(s) and shall be visible to persons approaching the building or structure from a street. The placard shall remain posted until the required repairs, demolition, removal, or other work are completed to the satisfaction of the Building Official and shall not be removed without written permission of the Building Official. No person shall enter the building or portion of the building if so noted except as authorized in writing by the Building Official for the purpose of performing required repairs, demolition, removal, or other work.
All placards shall read "Department of Public Works, Building and Safety Division, County of Los Angeles." As applicable, the placards shall identify the nature of the damage to, or condition of, the building or structure and restrictions to access or occupancy as follows:
1.
"INSPECTED - Lawful Occupancy Permitted" (green placard) shall be posted on any building or structure where no apparent structural hazard has been found. This placard does not establish that there is no damage to the building or structure.
2.
"RESTRICTED USE" (yellow placard) shall be posted on each building or structure where a condition may pose a hazard to life, health or safety, which has resulted in some form of restriction to continued access or occupancy. This placard will note the type of damage or condition encountered and restrictions on access or occupancy.
3.
"UNSAFE—Do Not Enter or Occupy" (red placard) shall be posted on each building or structure where a condition exists such that continued access or occupancy poses a hazard to life, health or safety. Buildings or structures posted with this placard shall not be entered under any circumstances except as authorized in writing by the Building Official. This placard is not to be used or considered as a demolition order. This placard will note the type of damage or condition encountered and prohibit entry.
(Ord. 2016-0053 § 2, 2016.)
