105.6.49 - Additional Permits.
In addition to the permits required by Section 105.6, the following permits shall be obtained from the Fire Prevention Division prior to engaging in the following activities, operations, practices, or functions:
1.
Production Facilities. To change use or occupancy, or allow the attendance of a live audience, or for wrap parties.
2.
Motion Picture, Television, Commercial, and Related Production Filming-Pyrotechnics and Special Effects. To use pyrotechnic special effects, open flame, hotwork, use of flammable or combustible liquids and gases, dust, welding, and the parking of motor vehicles in any building or location used for the purpose of motion picture, television, and commercial production. The applicant is required to pay the permit fee amount shown in Section 4803.4 prior to permit issuance.
3.
Live Audiences. To install seating arrangements for live audiences in approved production facilities, production studios, and sound stages. See Chapter 48.
4.
Motion Picture, Television, Commercial, and Related Production Filming. An operational permit is required to conduct motion picture, television, commercials, and related productions outside of an approved production facility. The applicant is required to pay the permit fee amount shown in Section 4803.4 prior to permit issuance.
5.
Motion Picture, Television, Commercial, and Related Production Filming-Fuel-dispensing Trucks and Vehicles. An annual operational permit is required to dispense flammable or combustible liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, or compressed natural gas from trucks or vehicles to equipment and vehicles on motion picture, television, and commercial production locations. The applicant is required to pay the annual permit fee amount shown in Section 4803.4 prior to permit issuance.
6.
Commercial Still Photography Production with On-site Cast and Crew Numbering Fifteen (15) or More Persons. An operational permit is required to take still photographs for commercial purposes outside of an approved production facility and where the on-site cast and crew numbers fifteen (15) or more persons. The applicant is required to pay the permit fee amount shown in Section 4803.4 prior to permit issuance.
(Ord. 2017-0003 ยง 48, 2017.)
