ARTICLE I. - CREATION, INCORPORATION, AND POWERS
modified

SECTION 1.10. - Reincorporation, name.
new
The City of Port Wentworth and the inhabitants thereof are reincorporated by the enactment of this charter and are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style of the City of Port Wentworth, and by that name shall have perpetual succession and shall hereinafter be referred to as "the city".
(Act 526 , House Bill 1175, 7-29-20)
SECTION 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
new
(a)
The boundaries of the city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of the city may be shown on a map and/or by written metes and bounds legal description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Metes and Bounds Legal Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Port Wentworth, Georgia." Photographic, scanned, typed, or other copies of such map or metes and bounds legal description certified by the city clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for changes in or redraw the official map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the city's corporate boundaries.
(Act 526 , House Bill 1175, 7-29-20)
SECTION 1.12. - Powers and construction.
new
(a)
The city shall have all powers possible for a municipality to have under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as amended, as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter.
(b)
The powers of the city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of the city authorized by Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, as amended.
(Act 526 , House Bill 1175, 7-29-20)
SECTION 1.13. - Express powers.
new
Unless otherwise preempted by federal or state law, the corporate powers of the city may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, limit, or prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the residents, inhabitants, property owners, and business owners in the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(2)
The city, may sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, make and enact, through its mayor and city council, such ordinances, rules, regulations, and resolutions for the transaction of its business and for the welfare and proper government of the city as the mayor and city council deem best, and which shall be consistent with the laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America;
(3)
The city council may, and in like manner, use, manage and improve, and dispose of any property now owned or hereafter acquired by the city;
(4)
Property taxes. To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation of property, revaluation of property, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(5)
Other taxes. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by state law;
(6)
Special assessments. To levy, assess, and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs and future maintenance for any public improvements;
(7)
Contracts. The city shall have the power to enter into contracts, agreements, licenses, and memoranda of understanding or similar intergovernmental agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, limited liability companies, corporations, and other legal entities;
(8)
Business regulation, taxation and fees. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees, other fees, and taxes on businesses, types of businesses, privileges, occupations, trades, and professions as authorized by the O.C.G.A., as amended; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses, fees, and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process if the business becomes a nuisance, is dangerous, is hazardous, is injurious to the health or morals of the inhabitants of the city and for failure to abide by any federal, state, or local business regulations and/or to pay any city taxes or fees;
(9)
Alcoholic beverages. The city shall have the power by ordinance to license and regulate alcoholic beverages within its territory in accordance with the general laws of the State of Georgia, as amended;
(10)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city, to authorize the expenditure of money for any purpose authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia, as amended, and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(11)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia, as amended;
(12)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, convey, transfer, lease, rent, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(13)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(14)
City, departments, and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city, and to confer upon such departments the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(15)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, transfers, conveyances, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(16)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to organize and operate a firefighting department;
(17)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to address and meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens, inhabitants, property owners, and members of the business community of the city;
(18)
Retirement and pensions. To provide and maintain a system of pensions, retirement and other employee benefit plans and programs for members of the governing authority, officers and employees of the city as provided by the O.C.G.A. and regulations, as amended;
(19)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in the O.C.G.A., or under other applicable public acts and regulations, as amended;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, storm water management, gas works, electric light plants, cable television, Internet, digital telecommunication, other telecommunication utilities, mobility utility, perishable goods utility, health utility, media utility, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility as may be developed and approved in the future; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, and assessments on any public utility; and to provide for regulations, penalties, and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same, and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced by the city;
(21)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for, or impose taxes on public utilities and public service companies; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(22)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon, or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate property owners to keep the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands clear and unobstructed, and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(23)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks, playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, terminals, docks, boat ramps and other marine facilities, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detention, penal institutions, agencies, and facilities; to provide for in-patient and out-patient hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, birth centers, blood banks, clinics and medical offices, dialysis centers, hospice facilities, imaging and radiology facilities, mental health and addiction treatment centers, nursing homes and skilled nursing facilities, orthopedic and rehabilitation facilities, urgent care and other medical facilities of any kind or nature; and to provide any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under the O.C.G.A., or other applicable public acts and regulations as are or may be enacted or amended in the future;
(24)
Building regulation. To regulate, permit, and/or license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas and heating and air conditioning, and other necessary codes and to regulate all housing, building, and building and construction trades;
(25)
Planning and zoning. To provide such comprehensive city planning for development by zoning, subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(26)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of loitering, disorderly conduct drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(27)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit in a manner consistent with general law, junk dealers, pawnshops, the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors, the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, and itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, parades, and shows of any kind whatever, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortune-telling, palmistry, adult bookstores, massage parlors, and adult establishments where nudity may be exhibited;
(28)
Motor vehicles and public parking. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and public parking and to exercise control over all traffic, upon or across the highways, streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(29)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city, and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(30)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(31)
Environmental protection: To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the city, the region, and the state through the preservation and improvement of air quality, restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of storm water and establishment of a storm water utility, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment; in a manner not inconsistent with the general laws of the State of Georgia, to regulate the emission of smoke, chemical and other noxious fumes, vehicle exhaust and other air pollutants which are admitted into the air space of the city; and to regulate and control any and all chemical, trash, unclean, impure, or corrupt material which may be exposed to the water flowing in, around, through, or into the aquifer beneath the city, and any stream or river in or adjacent to the city;
(32)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits, and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(33)
Public hazards and nuisances: Abatement and removal. A nuisance shall be defined and abated as provided by O.C.G.A. ยง 41-1-1 et seq., as amended; the city may provide for the condemnation, destruction, abatement, and removal of dwellings, buildings, or structures within the city which are unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses and not in compliance with applicable codes, structures which are vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes, or which constitute an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions;
(34)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, trash, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, trash, and refuse by residents, property owners, businesses, and others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials, and to provide for the disposal of such items;
(35)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, property owners, businesses, firms, limited liability companies, corporations, and other legal entities, incorporated in or outside the State of Georgia or residing in or doing business in the city or benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(36)
Water and sewer fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a fee, charge, or tax as necessary to assure the acquisition, construction, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extension of a water filtration and distribution system or sewage disposal plant and sewerage system; to levy on the users of water or sewers and the sewerage system a water or sewer service charge fee or tax for the use of the water or sewer systems; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges; and for enforcing payment of same; to charge, impose, and collect a water or sewer connection fee or fees; and to charge the same from time to time such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the water or sewerage systems;
(37)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's municipal court may work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail, to provide for the use of pretrial diversion and any alternative sentencing allowed by law, or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(38)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping or running at large of, any type or kind of animals and fowl, and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(39)
Taxicabs or other vehicles for hire. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(40)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(41)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(42)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(43)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by municipal corporations under other laws of the State of Georgia. No listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers, unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia.
SECTION 1.14. - Exercise of powers.
new
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, departments, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such powers shall be carried into execution as provided by the general laws of the State of Georgia or, in such an absence, the ordinances of the city.
(Act 526 , House Bill 1175, 7-29-20)
