Chapter 4 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 78-3, enacted April 13, 1978, has been codified at the editor's discretion as superseding Arts. I—III, with the exception of §§ 4-2, 4-4. Nature and extent of the changes effected by said ordinance renders detailed editorial analysis impractical. Former Arts. I—III pertained to animals and fowl in general, dogs and impoundment, and derived from Ord. No. 57-19, § 2, adopted June 13, 1957; Ord. No. 62-2, § 2, enacted Dec. 13, 1962; Ord. No. 63-3, §§ 1, 2, adopted May 9, 1963; Ord. No. 68-16, § 1, adopted Oct. 24, 1968; and several sections lacking history notes.
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council over animals, § 22.
Cross reference— Nuisances, Ch. 14.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretations and enforcement of this chapter:
Animals: Horses, ponies, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, swine, dogs, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, and similar animals.
Domestic animal: Those domestic beasts such as any dog, cat, rabbit, horse, mule, ass, goat, sheep or hog, or other animal made to be domestic.
Enclosures: Any uncovered, enclosed parcel of land where animals or fowl are kept.
Fowl: Chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, pigeons and similar fowl.
Health officer: The commissioner of health of the County of Chatham or his authorized representative.
Housing: Any building, shed, cage, pen or similar structure used for the housing of animals and fowl.
Nuisances: Whatever is dangerous or detrimental to human life or health and whatever renders or tends to render soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome.
Owner: Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department possessing harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having control or custody of an animal.
Person: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or agency.
Potentially dangerous dog: Any dog that when unprovoked:
(1)
Inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal either on public or private property; or
(2)
Chases or approaches a person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or any dog with a known propensity tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or otherwise threaten the safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 14, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 96-19, 12-12-96)
Sec. 4-2. - Cruelty.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully abuse, cruelly treat, injure or neglect any animal or fowl.
(Ord. No. 57-19, § 2, 6-13-57)
State Law reference— Authority for enactment and enforcement by municipality of animal protection ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-18; similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 4-3. - Animals running at large.
It shall be unlawful for any animal, cattle, hog, pig, horse, mule or cow to be allowed to feed or to be loose on any part of the right-of-way of any public street of this city, and the owner of any such animal, cattle, hog, pig, horse, mule or cow found on any part of the right-of-way of any public street of the city shall be fined or imprisoned, or both, under the provisions of this chapter, and said animal, cattle, hog, horse, mule or cow shall be impounded according to law.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 15, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-4. - Destruction of dangerous, vicious domesticated animals.
Any dangerous, vicious or fierce domesticated animal or any domesticated animal having dangerous, vicious or fierce propensities and tendencies found at large after the owner thereof has previous knowledge or notice that such domesticated animal is dangerous, vicious or fierce or has dangerous, vicious or fierce propensities and tendencies may be killed by any police officer of the city without such officer having to catch or impound such domesticated animal.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-42.
Sec. 4-5. - Destruction of animal.
When any animal, whose owner is unknown or incapable of being located, is impounded subject to the provisions of this chapter and such animal is injured or otherwise in a state of suffering, it shall thereupon be the duty of the animal control officer to obtain the opinion of a licensed practicing veterinarian as to the extent of such suffering or injury to such animal. When such opinion is that euthanasia should be performed, it shall then become the duty of the animal control officer to authorize such euthanasia.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 16, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-6. - Distance of animal enclosures from buildings.
Any housing or enclosure used for the keeping of animals or fowl shall be kept at the following minimum distances from any occupied building, except the dwelling unit of the owner, unless the permission of the occupant of the adjacent building and the health officer is given for a lesser distance.
(a)
Animals and fowl enclosures:      Distance
EXPAND
One or more mules, cattle, sheep goats and similar animals 100 feet
Three (3) or less swine 300 feet
Four (4) or more swine 900 feet
Four (4) or more dogs 100 feet
Five (5) or more rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters and similar animals 100 feet
Five (5) or more fowl 100 feet
  (b)
Horse stables (not enclosures or fences) shall be a minimum of fifty (50) feet from any occupied building except the dwelling unit of the owner unless the owner of the adjacent building and the health officer give permission for a lesser distance.
(c)
Animals and fowl not specifically mentioned in this section shall be kept at minimum distances deemed reasonable and necessary by the health officer.
(d)
In case of bona fide licensed pet shops, veterinary hospitals, stock yards, poultry farms, and similar commercial establishments, the health officer may modify these requirements where undue hardship would result from their strict enforcement.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 12, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-7. - Conditions of enclosure.
Any housing or enclosure used for the keeping of animals or fowl shall be well drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary. Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the health officer.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 11, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-8. - Owner responsible for nuisances.
The owner of animals and fowl shall be responsible for correcting or abating any nuisance that may arise from the keeping thereof.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 13, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-9. - Penalty.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction before the recorder's court or other court having jurisdiction thereof, be fined not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) or exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00), or imprisonment in the Chatham County Jail for a term not exceeding thirty (30) days, either or both, in the discretion of the court trying such person.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 17, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 83-3, 9-22-83)
Sec. 4-10. - Harboring potentially dangerous dogs.
(a)
No person owning, harboring or having the care of a potentially dangerous dog shall allow or permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such person.
(b)
No person owning or harboring or having the care of a potentially dangerous dog shall allow or permit such dog to go beyond the premises of such person unless such dog is securely leashed and humanely muzzled.
(c)
A potentially dangerous dog is "unconfined" if not in a proper enclosure upon the premises of the person described in subsection (a) of this section. A proper enclosure means, while on the owner's property, a potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog shall be confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and design to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top and shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded in the ground no less than one (1) foot.
(d)
A person who is convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The maximum fine is set at five hundred dollars ($500.00) or incarceration in jail for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, any potentially dangerous dog as defined in this chapter, which attacks a human being or domestic animal may be ordered destroyed at any time when in the court's judgment such potentially dangerous dog represents a threat of physical harm to human beings or domestic animals.
(Ord. No. 96-19, 12-12-96)
State Law reference— Jurisdiction and duties of local governments regarding dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20.
Sec. 4-11. - Restraint of potentially dangerous dogs; when not declared dangerous.
(a)
It is unlawful for an owner of a potentially dangerous dog or a dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and under physical restraint of a responsible person.
(b)
Dogs shall not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. No. 96-19, 12-12-96)
State Law reference— Jurisdiction and duties of local governments regarding dangerous dog control, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20.
Sec. 4-12. - Pet waste.
(a)
Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
Immediate—Shall mean that the pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
Owner/keeper—Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
Person—Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association, or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal jurisdiction.
Pet—A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal) kept for amusement or companionship.
Pet solid waste—Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet; excrement
Proper disposal—Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
(b)
Requirement for disposal. All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly dispose of their pet's solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by that person.
(c)
Exemptions. Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability assistance animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this section while such animal is being used for that purpose.
(d)
Enforcement. The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the Port Wentworth.
(e)
Violations and penalty. Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(f)
Severability. Each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase of this section is declared to be an independent section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase, and the finding or holding of any such portion of this section to be unconstitutional, void, or ineffective for any cause, or reason, shall not affect any other portion of this section.
(Ord. No. 14-15, 9-25-14)
Secs. 4-13—4-16. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DOGS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-17. - Registration of dogs.
(a)
Required. Each owner or possessor and any person who harbors or keeps any dog within the limits of the city shall cause such dog to be registered in the office of the clerk of the Chatham County Commissioners and shall secure an annual license tag for such dog.
(b)
Dog license fee. The veterinarian's fee for vaccination of a dog or cat shall be set by each individual licensed veterinarian of the State of Georgia. A license tag will be issued in exchange for a four dollar ($4.00) fee, which will be collected by the Animal Control Center of the Chatham County Police Department from the owner of each dog or cat who has received the antirabies vaccine and rabies certificate.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 1, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 83-3, 9-22-83)
State Law reference— Licensing, regulation of animals by local authority, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-3.
Sec. 4-18. - Notification regarding tag requirement.
Where any dog is found within the city without having a license tag as hereby required, it shall be the duty of the humane officer to issue a citation and subpoena for violation of section 4-7.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 3, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-19. - Rabies inoculation required.
All dogs and cats which have become three (3) months of age shall be vaccinated against rabies, and their owners shall obtain a license for such dogs and cats every twelve (12) months following the original vaccination and licensing of these dogs or cats. Any license not acquired and paid for within thirty (30) days of annual inoculation shall thereafter be assessed an additional four dollars ($4.00) per license as a penalty charge.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 10, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 83-3, 9-22-83)
Cross reference— Rabies control, § 4-66 et seq.
State Law reference— Applicability of state rabies control law to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-9.
Sec. 4-20. - Restrictions on dogs running at large.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any dog to be on the streets, lanes, highways, roads or squares of the city, unless such dog is held firmly on a leash held by a competent person. It shall be the duty of the owner or possessor or any person who keeps any dog to confine securely the same within the limits of his own premises and not to permit such dog to run or have access to run on the streets, lanes, highways, roads, squares or parks of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any dog to be on any posted city grounds or in any city-owned and city-operated buildings. The exception to this prohibition is seeing-eye dogs.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or to have a dog which habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks pedestrians, bike riders or conducts itself so as to be a public nuisance. To effect the impounding of such a dog, if necessary, the humane officer shall have the right to muzzle or employ such other methods as may be reasonably necessary to impound such animal.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 2, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 83-3, 9-22-83; Ord. No. 91-2, 1-24-91)
Sec. 4-21. - Dog tethering prohibited.
modified
(a)
No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie, or restrain a dog, or cause a dog to be tethered, fastened, chained, tied, to a dog house, tree, fence, or any other stationary object as a means of confinement or restraint.
(b)
Notwithstanding section (a), a person may tether, fasten, chain, or restrain a dog for not more than one hour in a 24-hour period, provided that for the purpose of tethering a dog a chain, leash, rope or tether shall be at least ten (10) feet in length and shall weigh no more than one-eighth (⅛) of the animal's body weight; and further provided that the dog is not tethered by means of a choke collar, prong collar, or pinch collar or in a manner as to cause injury, strangulation, or entanglement of the dog on fences, trees, or other man made or natural obstacles.
(c)
A violation of any provision of this section is punishable upon conviction by a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and/or up to five (5) days in jail as to each dog as to which such violation occurs.
(Ord. No. 08-06, 4-24-08)
Secs. 4-22—4-24. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 4-25. - Impoundment of dogs.
Any dog found upon the streets, lanes, highways, roads or squares of the city in violation of this article shall be caught by the humane officer, or his assistants, and impounded. The humane officer or his assistant shall have the specific right to enter upon any uninclosed private property to secure capture of any dog in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 4, 4-13-78)
State Law reference— Authority and duty of municipality to designate a dog control officer, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-22.
Sec. 4-26. - Duty of humane officer.
Upon the failure of a person to comply with the notice given him as provided under this article, within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving same, or should be person in charge of the premises upon which an unlicensed dog is found disclaim ownership of such dog, by himself or any member of his household when so notified, it shall thereupon become the duty of the humane officer to go upon the premises and take charge of and impound the dog.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 5, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-27. - Dogs kept three days.
Any dog impounded under the provisions of this article shall be kept for three (3) days in some convenient place, to be known as the dog pound or humane shelter, located in Chatham County.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 6, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-28. - Payment of fees.
Within three (3) days after a dog is impounded, the owner, possessor or any representative of the owner or possessor may come forward and pay the annual license tax, if he has not paid the same, an impounding fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each dog impounded and four dollars ($4.00) per day for each day that the dog is housed and fed in the dog pound or humane shelter by the authorities of the county.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 7, 4-13-78; Ord. No. 83-3, 9-22-83)
Sec. 4-29. - Dogs put to death.
Any dog impounded under this article whose owner, possessor or representative shall not come forward within three (3) days after the impoundment and pay the license tax and the fees specified in this article shall be put to death in some humane manner.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 8, 4-13-78)
Sec. 4-30. - Delegation of shelter of dogs.
The shelter and impounding of dogs found within the city which dogs are in violation of this article, may be delegated to and performed by such organization as shall be selected by the Chatham County Commissioners, provided that the operation of the humane shelter so operated shall be under the direction and control and subject to the supervision of the health officers of Chatham County.
(Ord. No. 78-3, § 9, 4-13-78)
ARTICLE III. - RESERVED[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— See the editor's note for Chapter 4.

Secs. 4-31—4-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BIRD SANCTUARY

Sec. 4-52. - Designation.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Ord. No. 61-3, § 1, 5-11-61)
Sec. 4-53. - Protection of birds.
It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests.
(Ord. No. 61-3, § 2, 5-11-61)
Sec. 4-54. - Birds causing nuisance.
If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, then in such event the health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, or Humane Society, or as many of said clubs as are found to exist in the city, after having given at least three (3) days actual notice of the time and place of said meeting to the representatives of such clubs.
If as a result of said meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such nuisance, then said birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by said health authorities under the supervision of the director of public safety.
(Ord. No. 61-3, § 2, 5-11-61; Ord. No. 12-26, § 1(a), 8-23-12)
Secs. 4-55—4-65. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - RABIES CONTROL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Applicability of state rabies control law to municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-9.

Sec. 4-66. - Quarantine of suspected animal.
Any animal which bites or scratches a person or which otherwise gives symptoms of having rabies shall be immediately reported to the county health officer and shall thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction of the health officer, for a period of ten (10) days, and shall not be released from such quarantine except by written permission of the health officer or under his direction. At the discretion of the health officer, such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner, at the shelter designated as the city pound, or at the owner's option and expense, in a veterinary hospital of his choice. In the case of stray animals, or in the cases of animals whose ownership is not known, such quarantine shall be at the shelter designated as the city pound.
Sec. 4-67. - Duty of owner to surrender animal; redemption.
The owner upon demand by the health officer, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected as having been exposed to rabies, for supervised quarantine, the expense of which shall be borne by the owner. Said animal may be reclaimed by the owner if it is adjudged free of rabies, upon payment of fees determined therefor by the mayor and council from time to time.
Sec. 4-68. - Disposition of dead rabid animal.
When rabies has been diagnosed in an animal under quarantine or rabies suspected by a licensed veterinarian, and the animal dies while under such observation, the health officer shall immediately send the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological examination and shall notify the proper public health authorities of reports of human contacts and the diagnosis.
Sec. 4-69. - Area-wide quarantine—When imposed.
When the report indicates a positive diagnosis of rabies, the health officer may order an area-wide quarantine for a period of sixty (60) days, and upon the invoking of such quarantine, no pet animal shall be taken into the streets, or permitted to be in the streets, during such period of quarantine. During such quarantine, no animal may be taken or shipped from the city without permission of the health officer.
Sec. 4-70. - Same—Vaccination.
During the area-wide quarantine period and as long thereafter as he decides it is necessary to prevent the spread of rabies, the health officer may require that all animals, three (3) months of age or older, shall be vaccinated against rabies. All vaccinated animals shall be restricted (leashing or confinement on enclosed premises) for thirty (30) days after vaccination. During the quarantine period, the health officer is hereby empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency canine rabies vaccination clinics strategically located through the area of the health jurisdiction.
Sec. 4-71. - Same—Redemption of strays restricted.
No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray, unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from any animal shelter during the period of rabies emergency quarantine, except by special authorization of the health officer.
Sec. 4-72. - Destruction, isolation of bitten animals.
Animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be immediately destroyed, or if the owner is unwilling to destroy the exposed animal, strict isolation of the animal in a kennel, designated by the health officer, for six (6) months shall be enforced. If the animal has been previously vaccinated, within time limits established by the public health service based on the kind of vaccination used, revaccination and restraint (leashing and confinement) for thirty (30) days shall be carried out.
Sec. 4-73. - Extension of quarantine.
In the event there are additional cases of rabies occurring during the period of area-wide quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended for an additional period of time.
Sec. 4-74. - Destruction, removal of rabid animals.
No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a human, except as herein provided, nor remove such animal from the city limits without written permission from the health officer.
Sec. 4-75. - Surrender of carcass.
The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be surrendered to the health officer.
Sec. 4-76. - Report of bite cases.
It shall be the duty of every physician, or other medical practitioner, to report to the health officer the names and addresses of persons treated for bites, inflicted by animals together with such other information as will be helpful in rabies control.
Sec. 4-77. - Failure to obey.
No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by the health officer.
