ARTICLE X. - UNFIT DWELLINGS, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance Nos. 89-2 and 89-3, both adopted April 28, 1989, and both not expressly amendatory of the Code, have been codified herein as a new Art. X, §§ 5-196—5-204 to Ch. 5, at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, Ch. 8; garbage and trash, Ch. 9; housing code, Ch. 10; nuisances generally, Ch. 14; buildings which are dilapidated, unsanitary or unfit for human habitation deemed a nuisance, § 14-2(d).
State Law reference— Authority for repair, closing, or demolition of unfit buildings, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-61-11, 41-2-7 et seq.

Sec. 5-196. - Authority to repair, close or demolish unfit or unsafe dwellings; application to private property whereon is created health hazards or general nuisances.
(a)
When it is found and declared by the governing authority of the City of Port Wentworth that in the city there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures that are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business occupancy or use and such are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the people of this city; and when it is found and declared by the governing authority of the city that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings, buildings or structures; and when it is found and declared by the governing authority of the city that in the city there is in existence a condition or use or real estate that renders adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation, such use is dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and welfare of the people of this city and a public necessity exists for the repair of such condition or the cessation of such use that renders the adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation; and when it is found and declared by the governing authority of the city that there exists in the city dwellings, buildings or structures that are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business uses due to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; or other conditions rendering such dwellings, buildings or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city, power is conferred upon the City of Port Wentworth to exercise its police power to repair, close or demolish such dwellings, buildings or structures in the manner provided by law (O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8—41-2-17).
(b)
All the provisions contained in O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8—41-2-17 shall be applied also to provide property in the City of Port Wentworth where an accumulation of weeds, trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions shall create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those residents of the city residing in the vicinity. A finding by the governing authority of the city or the building inspector that such property is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that said property is in violation of the laws of the city and the state, and the city shall exercise its police powers to abate said health or safety hazards.
(Ord. No. 89-2, 4-28-89)
Sec. 5-197. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms are defined as follows:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings or structures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwellings, buildings or structures" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Governing body means the legislative body charged with governing the City of Port Wentworth.
Municipality means the City of Port Wentworth.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of said property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have interest of record in the municipality where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the municipality.
Public officer means the officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances adopted under O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-7—41-2-17 to exercise the powers prescribed by such ordinances or any agent of such officer or officers.
Repair means closing a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated that create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 1, 4-28-89)
Sec. 5-198. - Appointment of a public officer.
The governing body of the City of Port Wentworth shall appoint a public officer to exercise the powers prescribed herein.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 2, 4-28-89)
Sec. 5-199. - Powers of public officer.
The public officer is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
(a)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the municipality in order to determine which dwellings, buildings or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial or business use;
(b)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(c)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(d)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this article;
(e)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as he may designate and as approved by the building code committee.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 3, 4-28-89)
Sec. 5-200. - Determination by public officer that dwelling, building or structure is unfit.
The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling or structure that are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures; or of other residents of the City of Port Wentworth. Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(a)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(b)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
(c)
Dilapidation;
(d)
Disrepair;
(e)
Structural defects; and
(f)
Uncleanliness.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 4, 4-28-89)
Sec. 5-201. - Issuance of complaint.
(a)
Charges that any dwelling, building or structure in the municipality is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use may be brought in two (2) ways:
(1)
A request making said charges may be filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five (5) residents of the City of Port Wentworth; or
(2)
The public officer may bring said charges on his own motion.
(b)
The public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint or citation and summons. The complaint or citation shall state the specific charges and shall contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the municipal court. The hearing shall be fixed for not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than forty-five (45) days after the serving of the complaint. The owner and any parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Service of complaints upon parties in interest and owners of unfit buildings or structures shall be made in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 5, 4-28-89; Ord. No. 10-27, 9-24-10; Ord. No. 11-03, 3-24-11)
Sec. 5-202. - Issuance of order.
(a)
After such notice and hearing, if the municipal court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or in unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, the court shall state in writing its findings of fact in support of such a determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order.
(b)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial, or business use, the owner or parties in interest shall be ordered to repair, alter or improve such dwelling or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure as a human habitation within the time specified in the order.
(c)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, the owner or parties in interest shall be ordered, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building or structure.
(d)
In no event shall the governing authority of the municipality require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration or improvement thereof exceeds one-half (½) the value such dwelling, building or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this article.
(e)
Service of orders upon parties in interest and owners of unfit buildings or structures shall be made in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 6, 4-28-89; Ord. No. 11-03, 3-24-11)
Sec. 5-203. - Failure to comply with order of public officer.
(a)
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. The public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 7, 4-28-89; Ord. No. 11-03, 3-24-11)
Sec. 5-204. - Payment for vacating and closing or removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures.
(a)
The amount of the cost of vacating and closing or removal and demolition by the city shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Said lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Chatham County and shall relate back to the date of filing of the lis pendens notice required under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12(c). The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket.
(b)
If the dwelling, building or structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court of Chatham County by the public officer. It shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(c)
The City of Port Wentworth shall enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures only in the manner set forth in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9(7)(A)—(C).
(Ord. No. 89-3, § 8, 4-28-89; Ord. No. 11-03, 3-24-11)
Sec. 5-205. - Reserved.
