ARTICLE XIV. - ADMINISTRATION

Section A. - Administration:
Except as otherwise provided in these regulations the Zoning Administrator shall administer, interpret, and enforce this Ordinance.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section B. - Building, Development Permits and Site Plan Requirements:
1.
Building Permit. A building permit, approved by the Zoning Administrator, shall be required for the erection, construction or alteration of any building, structure, sign or canopy within the City of Chatsworth. All applications for a building permit shall include a legal survey and sufficient information for the Zoning Administrator to evaluate compliance with all provisions of this Ordinance and all other City regulations.
2.
Development Permit. A development permit, approved by the Zoning Administrator, shall be required for all non residential development on single lots, planned commercial developments, Single Family Attached Subdivisions, Planned Community Developments, Apartment Developments, and Industrial Park Developments as defined in Article II, conventional residential subdivisions, and Manufactured Home Parks, before any improvements or grading of land commences. Such development permits shall not be in lieu of building permits required for any structures within such developments. All applications for a development permit shall include a legal survey prepared by a registered surveyor and a Site Plan meeting the requirements of Paragraph 3, below.
3.
Site Plan Requirements. All applications for development permits shall include a current survey and a Site Plan, signed by the owner in duplicate. Site plans shall be prepared by a Georgia registered surveyor, engineer or architect and include all information outlined below:
a)
Name, location, owner and designer/engineer (if applicable) of the proposed development.
b)
Present zoning and special exceptions (if any) for the subject site.
c)
Location of the site in relation to surrounding properties, including the means of ingress and egress to such properties and any screening or buffers on such properties.
d)
Date, north arrow and graphic scale (not less than one inch equals fifty (50) feet.
e)
Location of all property lines, existing and proposed pavement driveway approaches, sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
f)
Location and dimension of all existing and proposed utility poles and guylines, fire hydrants, meters, water and sewer lines.
g)
The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon.
h)
The size of the building(s) to be erected.
i)
The location of the building(s) on the lot.
j)
The location of existing structures on the lot, if any.
k)
The number of dwelling units each building is designed to accommodate.
l)
Location of all trash receptacles and related screening.
m)
Location of all proposed signs.
n)
The setback lines of buildings and structures on adjoining lots.
o)
The layout of all off-street parking and loading spaces, subject to the standards of Article XI.
p)
If applicable, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Plan and a Flood Plan in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance and the Chatsworth Subdivisions Regulations.
q)
Such information as may be required by the Zoning Administrator or required by any other city ordinance.
Upon final review of a site plan and development permit approval, the development shall be built substantially in accordance with the site plan and its specifications. If after such approval, should the owner/applicant desire to alter the plan, such changes shall be submitted to the zoning administrator. If the zoning administrator deems that there is a substantial change or deviations from that which is shown on the approved site plan, the owner/applicant of his successors shall be required to resubmit a fully revised site plan before approval is granted.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section C. - Issuance:
All development or building permits shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator, who shall in no case grant any development or building permit for the use, construction or alteration of any land or building if the land or building as proposed to be used, constructed, or altered would be in violation of any of the provisions of this Ordinance or any other codes and laws of the City, County, or the State, except as provided herein.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section D. - Duration of Permit Validity:
A development or building permit shall be valid for two years from its issuance providing the work described in any development or building permit has not begun within ninety (90) days from the date of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section E. - Appeals From Decisions of the Zoning Administrator:
It is the intention of this Article that all questions arising in connection with the administration and enforcement of this Ordinance shall be presented to the Board of Appeals only on appeals from the decision of such official.
( Ord. of 10-09 )
Section F. - Reserved.
Editor's note— An Ord. of 1-4-2021(2) , repealed § F, which pertained to maximum number of permits and derived from Ord. of 10-09.
