Chapter 6 - FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Fire prevention code—Adopted.
There is adopted by the municipality for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the Standard Fire Prevention Code, 1991 edition, as revised, published by the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended. Not less than one copy of such code is filed in the office of the clerk and is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this Code, and it provisions shall be controlling within the limits of the municipality.
(Ord. of 7-12-93, § 1)
Sec. 6-2. - Same—Enforcement.
The fire prevention code adopted herein shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
Sec. 6-3. - Same—Chief to have power to modify.
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted herein upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or a duly authorized agent of the owner or lessee, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department shall be furnished the applicant.
Sec. 6-4. - Same—Appeal.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the governing body within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
Sec. 6-5. - Same—Violations.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code adopted herein or fail to comply with it, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made under the code, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved under the code, or any certificate or permit issued under the code, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or modified by the governing body or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed in section 6-4, shall severally, for each violation and noncompliance respectively, be punished as provided in section 1-8. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All persons in violation shall be required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
Sec. 6-6. - Remedying unsafe conditions.
If any building shall appear to the governing body in charge of such matters, to be dangerously exposed to fire on account of defective flues, the unsafe location of stoves, heaters or gas jets, the exposure of unprotected windows to outside fires, the improper storage or accumulation of combustibles or explosives, or for any other reason, the owner or agent of such building shall at once make such building safe as directed by such authority.
(Code 1926, § 142)
Sec. 6-7. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1, adopted August 1, 2016 , repealed § 6-7, which pertained to discharge of fireworks and derived from Code 1926, § 205.
Secs. 6-8—6-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU

Sec. 6-20. - Established; composition.
There is hereby established the fire prevention bureau, a service within the fire department. The fire prevention bureau shall consist of a chief fire inspector and such other inspectors as are designated by the fire chief.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 2)
Sec. 6-21. - Investigative duties.
The fire prevention bureau shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city in which any person is injured or killed or in which property has been damaged or destroyed and, so far as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or design, or was unavoidable. The fire prevention bureau shall report the findings of the investigation to the fire chief on forms designated by the fire chief in a timely manner.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 3)
Sec. 6-22. - Inspections for permits.
Whenever any city ordinance requires an inspection to be made by the fire department, such inspection shall be made by the fire prevention bureau.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 4)
Sec. 6-23. - Periodic inspections.
The fire prevention bureau shall, to the extent that manpower is available, inspect premises throughout the city to look for fire hazards, explosion hazards, and violations of city ordinances relating to fire and explosion hazards.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 5)
Sec. 6-24. - Notice to remove combustible material; compliance required.
(a)
Whenever any fire inspector finds in any building, or upon any premises or other place, combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings or any highly flammable materials that may endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the operations of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire, such inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or building.
(b)
Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a reasonable period after service of this order, shall be liable to penalties as provided in this Code.
(c)
The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of the same to such occupant personally or by certified mail. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of any premises, such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the city or cannot be found in the city, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner's last known post office address.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 6)
Sec. 6-25. - Entering private premises.
Upon arriving at any private premises to make an inspection, each member of the fire prevention bureau shall identify such member's self to the owner, occupant or person in charge. If the owner, occupant or person in charge refuses to let the member of the fire prevention bureau enter the premises, the member of the fire prevention bureau shall not attempt to force entry but shall obtain, with the help of the city attorney, a search warrant or other appropriate court order to permit entry and inspection of the premises.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 7)
Sec. 6-26. - Nuisance, injunction.
Any violation of this article is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In addition to any other relief provided by this Code, the city attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this article. Such application for relief may include a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent injunction.
(Ord. of 8-3-87, § 9)
ARTICLE III. - FIREWORKS REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-27. - Title.
This article shall be known and designated as the "fireworks regulations ordinance."
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-28. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this article and defined by state law, the term:
Consumer fireworks means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in Parts 1500 and 1507 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in Part 172 of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1, and additionally shall mean Roman candles.
Consumer fireworks retail sales facility shall have the same meaning as provided for 120 by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that such term shall not include a tent, canopy, or membrane structure.
Consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124.
Distributor means any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership which sells consumer fireworks.
Electric plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A Code Section 46-3A-1.
Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
NFPA 1124 means the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles, 2006 Edition.
Nonprofit group means any entity exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any entity incorporated under Chapter 3 of Title 14, the 'Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code,' or a sponsored organization of a public or private elementary or secondary school in this state.
Proximate audience means an audience closer to pyrotechnic devices than permitted by the National Fire Protection Association Standard 1123, Code for Fireworks Display, as adopted by the safety fire commissioner.
Pyrotechnics means fireworks.
Store shall have the same meaning as provided for by NFPA 1124; provided, however, that such term shall only include such buildings with at least 4,000 square feet of retail display space and wherefrom:
(1)
No more than 25 percent of such retail display space is used for consumer fireworks and items or products as provided for under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section; and
(2)
Other items or products which are not consumer fireworks or items or products as provided for under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section are sold; and provided, further, that such term means a person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership with more than one mercantile location, where all such mercantile locations are collectively known to the public by the same name or share central management.
Waste-water treatment plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A Code Section 43-51-2.
Water treatment plant shall have the same meaning as provided for in O.C.G.A. Code Section 43-51-2. (b)
(b)
As used in this ordinance, the term 'consumer fireworks' or 'fireworks' shall not include:
(1)
Model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models, toy pistol paper caps in which the explosive content averages 0.25 grains or less of explosive mixture per paper cap or toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices using such paper caps; nor shall the term 'consumer fireworks' or 'fireworks' include ammunition consumed by weapons used for sporting and hunting purposes; and
(2)
Wire or wood sparklers of 100 grams or less of mixture per item; other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and non-aerial and contain 75 grams or less of chemical compound per tube or a total of 500 grams or less for multiple tubes; snake and glow worms; smoke devices; or trick noise makers which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops each consisting of 0.25 grains or less of explosive mixture." (1) "Consumer fireworks" means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in Parts 1500 and 1507 of Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in Part 172 of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1, and additionally shall mean Roman candles.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-29. - Limited prohibition as to consumer fireworks or fireworks.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, within the city except as expressly authorized by the general law of the State of Georgia.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-30. - Prohibition of consumer fireworks or fireworks in city park areas or the use of fireworks at a time or place not authorized by the general law of the State of Georgia except pursuant to a special use permit.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to offer for sale at retail or wholesale, to use or ignite or cause to be ignited, or to possess, manufacture, transport, or store any consumer fireworks or fireworks, on, upon, or above any city property, including but not limited to the public parks of the city, except as allowed by a special use permit issued by the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks on any day at a time not allowed by the general law of the State of Georgia within the City, unless such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership is issued a special use permit by the City Council for the use or explosion of consumer fireworks in a location within the City at a time not allowed for under the general law of the State of Georgia. The applicant for a special use permit shall use the application forms of the city for said permit, and shall designate the time or times and location that such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership desires to use or ignite or cause to be ignited such consumer fireworks or fireworks. The city council shall consider the application, and considering reasonable factors such as the time requested, the proposed location of the fireworks display, prior experience concerning the applicant's use of fireworks, the potential for fires or wildfires, and other reasonable factors, and in its discretion based upon these factors grant or deny the issuance of a special use permit. If the special use permit is granted by the city council, then the applicant shall pay a special use permit fee of $100.00 to the city. If the application is denied, then the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the Superior Court of Murray County pursuant to the procedures for the grant of a writ of certiorari by said court. The City of Chatsworth, the city council, and the agents of the city shall have no liability as to any decision made pursuant to this section.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks on, upon, or above any location where such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership is not lawfully present or is not otherwise lawfully permitted to use or ignite or cause to be ignited any consumer fireworks; or within 100 yards of an electric plant; water treatment plant; waste-water treatment plant; a facility engaged in the retail sale of gasoline or other flammable or combustible liquids or gases where the volume stored is in excess of 500 gallons for the purpose of retail sale; a facility engaged in the production, refining, processing, or blending of gasoline any flammable or combustible liquids or gases for such retail purposes; any public or private electric substation; or a jail or prison; within 100 yards of the boundaries of any public use air facility or any public use landing area or platform marked and designed for landing use by helicopters; within any park, historic site, recreational area, or other property which is owned by or operated by, for, or under the custody and control of the City of Chatsworth, except pursuant to a special use permit as provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this section; within any park, historic site, recreational area, or other property which is owned by or operated by, for, or under the custody and control of the State of Georgia, except pursuant to any rules and regulations of the agency or department having control of such property which may allow for such use or ignition of consumer fireworks; within 100 yards of a hospital, nursing home, or other health care facility; provided, however, that an owner or operator of such facility may use or ignite or cause to be ignited consumer fireworks on the property of such facility or may grant written permission to any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to use or ignite or cause to be ignited consumer fireworks on the property of such facility.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-31. - Occupational tax for a licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store in the city.
A licensed distributor operating a permanent consumer fireworks retail sales facility or store shall be entitled to receive a city occupational tax license for said facility or store upon making application for said license from the city pursuant to the city's procedure, and providing a copy of the license issued to the distributor and as to said permanent facility or store by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner or the Judge of the Probate Court of Murray County and as provided by general law. The occupational tax license fee for said licensed distributor shall be assessed for said licensed distributor upon the same basis as other businesses, professions, or occupations under the city's occupational tax ordinance. Any termination, revocation, or suspension of the license issued by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner shall act to automatically in similar fashion terminate, revoke, or suspend the city occupational tax license issued to said licensed distributor. If the licensed distributor selling consumer fireworks from a permanent consumer fireworks retails sales facility or store as defined herein, then any city occupational tax license issued for said store shall be sufficient to authorize the sale or the offer for sale at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks without having said store acquire an additional occupational tax license from the city as to the sale of consumer fireworks or fireworks.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-32. - License for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
The City of Chatsworth is hereby authorized to issue a temporary license (and which shall also serve as a temporary occupational tax license) for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand or stands, provided that the city fire department determines that the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand meets the requirements of the general law of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(1) and O.C.G.A. § 25-10.5.1(a)(1). In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c)(2), a temporary license shall also be granted in the event that the judge of the probate court of Murray County determines that such a temporary license should be issued due to an appeal of the decision by the applicable fire department. The application for the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be submitted to the applicable fire department, and with a copy provided to the city clerk. Any temporary license issued shall identify the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand applicable to such license, and the temporary license shall expire on the next January 31st after the issuance of such license. The license fee for a distributor selling consumer fireworks from a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall be $500.00 per location, payable to the governing authority of the city. All temporary licenses for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand shall only be issued to licensed distributors where the sales of consumer fireworks from such temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands shall accrue to the benefit of a nonprofit group as agreed between the licensed distributor and the participating nonprofit group. A nonprofit group benefitting from the sale of consumer fireworks pursuant to this provision shall directly participate in operating the temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-33. - Enforcement.
(a)
The city fire department is authorized to refer cases for enforcement as to violations of O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(c) to the state fire marshal.
(b)
All fireworks manufactured, offered for sale, exposed for sale, or stored in violation of this ordinance or state law, or both, are declared to be contraband and may be seized, taken, and removed, or caused to be removed and destroyed at the expense of the owner thereof, or both, by any authorized law enforcement officer operating within the City of Chatsworth.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-34. - Certain devices unlawful that require a flame for propulsion or lighting.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership to release or cause to be released any balloon, bag, parachute, or other similar device which requires fire underneath for propulsion or to release or cause to be released any floating water lantern or wish lantern which uses a flame to create a lighting effect in any public waters within the City of Chatsworth.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
Sec. 6-35. - Penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership that knowingly violates the provisions of this article may be punished by a fine, or imprisonment, or both, up to the maximum penalties allowed under section 1-8 of the code of the City of Chatsworth, or pursuant to state law. Each act in violation of this article, including but not limited each sales transaction, shall be deemed to be a separate offense, and subject to the maximum penalties as provided herein.
( Ord. of 8-1-16(1), § 1 )
