Chapter 5 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 5-1. - Definition.
As used in this chapter the term ``emergency management'' shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than the functions for which the state and federal governments are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy nuclear attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by acts of nature, fire, explosion, civil disorders or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, law enforcement services, medical and health services, rescue services, engineering services, warning services, communications, defense from radiological fallout, welfare services, evacuation when and where necessary, emergency transportation, plant and utility protection, restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to the protection and well-being of the population of the city, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to preparation for and the carrying out of the above functions.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 1)
Sec. 5-2. - Emergency management office; director.
There is hereby established the city emergency management office. The mayor and city council shall appoint a director of emergency management for the city. When appointed the director will be a deputy director on the Chatsworth-Murray County emergency management or civil defense staff and is charged:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
With assisting city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
With developing in conjunction with the county emergency management or civil defense director, the plan for emergency functions set forth in section 5-1.
(4)
With maintaining and carrying out the day-to-day administration of the emergency management program including the rendering of required reports to the Chatsworth-Murray County emergency management or civil defense office.
(5)
Rendering reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
Procuring, with authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(7)
During periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of governing officials, coordinate the activities of the city emergency operating center staff.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 2)
Sec. 5-3. - Emergency management organization.
The emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 5-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Function
Emergency management office Emergency communications
Emergency management office Shelter planning
City police department Emergency law enforcement  service and attack warning
City fire department Firefighting and rescue service
Utilities department Radiological defense
Emergency management office
(Coordinate with county) Emergency welfare service
Utilities department Emergency engineering service
City purchasing department Logistics (resources manage ment)
Emergency management office Emergency Public Information
Emergency management office Industrial and institution emer gency planning
Emergency management office Coordinating of training
  Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the standing operating procedures for their assigned emergency functions.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 3)
State Law reference— Authority to form, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 5-4. - Declaring state of emergency—In case of attack or disaster.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which might affect the lives or property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, or in the mayor's absence, the mayor pro tem, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management forces.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city, to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and of funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 4)
Sec. 5-5. - Same—In case of civil disturbance, etc.
In addition to any and all powers enumerated in this Code, the mayor, or in the mayor's absence, the mayor pro tem, as the chief executive of the city, shall have further emergency powers as follows:
(1)
The mayor, or mayor pro tem in mayor's absence, shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in such official's opinion, one or more of the following conditions exists:
a.
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
b.
Unusual or extreme weather conditions, making use of city streets or areas difficult or impossible.
c.
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
d.
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the city.
(2)
After declaration of such emergency the mayor, or the mayor pro tem in the absence of the mayor, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
a.
The power to use employees of the city to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of citizenry of the city.
b.
The power to close streets and sidewalks and to delineate areas within the city wherein an emergency exists.
c.
The power to impose emergency curfew regulations.
d.
The power to close business establishments within the affected areas.
e.
The power to close any or all municipally owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
f.
The power to do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the city.
(3)
No emergency power as set forth in this section shall be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the mayor. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergency to exist the emergency powers as set forth in this section may be exercised during such further emergency periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
(4)
No emergency period declared under this section shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the governing body.
(5)
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the city shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
(Ord. of 10-2-67, § 3)
Sec. 5-6. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 5)
Sec. 5-7. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 6)
Sec. 5-8. - Liberality of construction.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purposes.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 7)
Sec. 5-9. - Conflict of laws.
Where the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with existing local laws or ordinance, the provisions of this chapter will govern during a declared emergency.
(Ord. of 4-5-71, § 8)
