ARTICLE 3. - OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING

Section 4.3.1. - Purpose and Intent.
This Article is intended to ensure that adequate off-street parking and loading is provided within the City. All parking and loading areas shall be designed and located for the following purposes:
A.
To serve the use for which constructed;
B.
To protect the public safety; and,
C.
To mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent uses.
Section 4.3.2. - Provision of Adequate Parking.
The owner, developer, or operator of a specific use site shall provide and maintain adequate off-street parking and loading to meet specific characteristics of a use or combination of uses.
Section 4.3.3. - Applicability of Article.
A.
Applicability.
1.
The requirements of this Article shall apply to all development, including new structures, alterations or improvements to existing structures, establishment of new uses, or change of use.
2.
Off-street parking shall be available for use prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy or occupational license.
B.
Expansion. If an existing building, structure, or use that conforms to the off-street and parking and loading requirements is expanded, the area of expansion shall comply with requirements of this Article.
C.
Change in Use. If a change of use or occupancy occurs and does not involve expansion of an existing building, the new use shall comply with the off-street parking and loading requirements of this Article.
D.
Nonconformities as to Parking. If expansion occurs to a building that does not comply with off-street parking and loading requirements, the area of expansion shall comply.
E.
Calculations. Calculations shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
F.
Assigned Parking. Parking spaces may be assigned to a specific use, provided the number of spaces assigned to a particular use does not exceed the number of spaces required for such use. Assigned spaces shall be indicated on the approved site plan associated with the affected use.
Section 4.3.4. - Location of Required Parking.
A.
Location. Parking facilities, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be located on the same lot as the principal use and shall provide convenient and safe access to the uses served by such facilities.
B.
Joint Access for Parking Facilities. The City may require joint access between adjacent parking facilities constructed for nonresidential or multifamily residential purposes. Joint access may be required to achieve one or more of the following:
1.
Reduce the number of entrances and exits along public roads and streets;
2.
Expand existing joint access;
3.
Increase pedestrian safety;
4.
Reduce the number of vehicles entering or exiting public roads and streets; and
5.
Increase utilization of public improvements such as frontage roads and limited access roads.
C.
Residential Parking.
1.
General. Parking spaces for all residential uses shall be located on the same lot as the principal use and shall be located as close as possible to the entrance of such principal use. Parking for second floor, loft, and similar types of parking in mixed uses shall be exempt from this requirement.
2.
Driveways. Driveways may be considered off-street parking spaces for single-, two-, and three-family and four-family dwellings. The length of the driveway must provide sufficient space to comply with the requirements of this Article.
3.
Parking within Required Yards or Setbacks.
(A)
Prohibited Parking. Parking of vehicles in any front, side, or rear setback, except on driveways or other approved surfaces, is prohibited.
(B)
Temporary Parking. Temporary parking of vehicles in a yard is permitted for social or other events held at a residence, provided such parking shall not exceed eight hours in a 24-hour period. Temporary parking in a yard due to renovation or repair of a driveway or residence is permitted for the duration of the improvements.
(C)
Parking of Commercial Vehicles and Construction Equipment. Parking of commercial vehicles and construction equipment in residential zoning districts shall comply with the requirements of Section 20-13.10 of the Code of Columbus.
Section 4.3.5. - Construction and Maintenance.
A.
General Requirements.
1.
Construction, Maintenance and Operation. Off-street parking facilities and loading shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in accordance with the requirements listed below.
(A)
Paving and Drainage. Drainage for off-street parking and loading facilities shall comply with the requirements of this UDO. Unless otherwise provided by this Article, off-street parking facilities shall be paved with concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt, or other materials acceptable to the City Engineer.
(B)
Maintenance. Residential and nonresidential off-street parking and loading facilities shall be maintained in proper condition, free of weeds, dust, trash, and debris. Drainage systems for off-street parking and loading facilities shall be maintained in a manner acceptable to the City Engineer.
2.
Striping. Striping of parking stalls and other traffic control features shall comply with requirements established by the City Engineer.
3.
Lighting. Lighting of off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided in compliance with Section 4.2.2.
4.
Entrances and Exits. The City Engineer shall determine the number of entrances and exits to parking and loading facilities. Standards to assist in the location of entrances and exits include the following:
(A)
The number shall be as few as possible; and
(B)
The location shall be provided and located so as to minimize traffic congestion
5.
Other Standards.
(A)
Backing Out. Vehicles shall not be permitted to back out from parking or loading spaces into a public street or right-of-way. This requirement shall not apply to any residential dwelling located within a residential zoning district, unless precluded by public safety considerations such as daily traffic flow or the category of the street.
(B)
Off-street Stacking.
(1)
Off-street stacking distance shall be provided between the edge of right-of-way and the nearest intersecting drive aisle of a parking lot or location of a conflicting traffic movement. The minimum length of the stacking area shall depend on the number of parking spaces in the associated parking lot in accordance with Table 4.3.1.
Table 4.3.1.
Minimum Stacking Requirements
EXPAND
Number of Parking Spaces Length of
Stacking Area (ft)
21-40 40
41-100 60
101 or more 100
  (2)
For any request to reduce stacking distance, the City Engineer shall consider lot depth, lot width, location of existing structures, existing circulation patterns, and similar factors.
6.
Screening and Landscaping.
(A)
Screening. All parking facilities and loading facilities shall be screened from adjoining uses as required in Section 4.6.11.
(B)
Minimum Clearance. Tree limbs, signs, vegetation, or other obstructions shall not impede visibility between the heights of two feet and ten feet above pavement elevation at the entrances and exits.
(Ord. No. 09-40, § 1, 7-14-09)
Section 4.3.6. - Prohibition of Other Uses.
Required off-street parking areas shall not be used for the following: the sale, repair, dismantling, or servicing of any vehicle; or the sale, repair, storage, or servicing of other equipment, materials, or supplies.
Section 4.3.7. - Structured Parking Facilities.
Parking facilities on more than one level shall be designed in accordance with the general standards established in this Section.
A.
Accessory Use. Structured parking shall be considered an accessory use to a principal commercial or industrial use. Structured parking also may be constructed as a principal use.
B.
Phasing. Construction of structured parking facilities may be phased when included as part of an approved site plan.
C.
Standards. The Director shall consider the following standards when considering an application for development approval which includes a structured parking facility:
1.
Layout;
2.
Circulation;
3.
Pedestrian orientation and circulation;
4.
Ingress and egress affecting safety and convenience;
5.
Landscaping proposed for the top and sides of the structure;
6.
Landscaping, and screening and buffering from adjacent uses;
7.
Proximity to residential zoning districts;
8.
Lighting;
9.
Appearance;
10.
Architectural treatments to minimize visual impacts, including the use of opaque screening to conceal parked vehicles from public view;
11.
Compatibility with adjacent structures; and
12.
Mass and bulk of structure.
Section 4.3.8. - Parking Stall and Bay Dimensions.
A.
Minimum Dimensions. Minimum dimensions for parking stalls are indicated in Table 4.3.1 and Figure 4.3.1.
B.
Paving. All minimum dimensions of parking spaces, travel aisles, and other vehicular circulation areas shall be paved. The City Engineer may approve use of specialty paver brick or surfaces.
Figure 4.3.1
Minimum Parking Bay Dimensions
LEGEND
A=Stall Angle
B=Stall Width
C=Vehicle Projection
D=Aisle Width, One Way
E=Curb Length per Car
F=Wall to Wall Width for Double Aisle
G=Overlap Center Width for Double Aisle
C.
Parking Bays. Parking bays, which are the total of stall depth plus aisle width shall provide for adequate maneuvering and parking space. Parking bays shall be subject to the minimum standards as described in Table 4.3.1 and Figure 4.3.2.
D.
Location Near Sidewalks. Sidewalks located in front of parking spaces shall have a minimum width of six (6) feet or provide bumper stops or curbing to prevent the front of the vehicle from overhanging the sidewalks.
E.
Parking Near Property Lines. All parking must be offset three (3) feet from any property line, unless an adjacent parking/access agreement exists between adjoining property owners.
Table 4.3.2.

Minimum Parking Bay Dimensions for Residential and Nonresidential Uses
EXPAND
Measurement (See Figure 4.3.4)
A B C D E F G
0° 8'0" 8'0" 12'0" 23'0" 28'0" None
30° 9'0" 17'3" 11'0" 18'0" 45'6" 37'8"
45° 9'0" 19'8" 13'0" 12'7" 52'5" 46'5"
60° 9'0" 21'0" 18'0" 10'4" 60'0" 55'5"
90° 9'0" 20'0" 24'0" 9'0" 64'0" None
  (Ord. No. 09-40, § 1, 7-14-09; Ord. No. 14-2, § 7, 1-14-14)
Section 4.3.9. - Number of Parking Spaces Required.
A.
Required Spaces. The number of off-street parking spaces required for individual uses is established in Table 4.3.2.
B.
Maximum and Minimum Number of Parking Spaces. Unless otherwise provided in this Article, the number of required parking spaces established in this Section represents both the minimum and maximum number of parking spaces to be provided for an individual use. An increase or reduction in the number of required parking spaces may be requested as provided herein.
C.
Parking Studies.
1.
Parking Study Discretionary. As indicated in Table 4.3.3, the Director may request a parking study to demonstrate compliance with overall parking demand.
2.
Mandatory Parking Study. For certain uses, a parking study is required, as indicated in Table 4.3.3.
3.
Parking Study Standards. A parking study shall comply with the standards listed below.
(A)
Preparation. The study shall be prepared by one or more of the following:
(1)
A professional engineer licensed by the State of Georgia;
(2)
A landscape architect licensed by the State of Georgia;
(3)
A planner who is a member of the American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP) or possessing the qualifications to be a member of AICP; or
(4)
An architect licensed by the State of Georgia.
(B)
Professional Standards. The study will be conducted according to commonly accepted professional practices.
D.
Unlisted Uses. For any use not listed in Table 4.3.3, the Director shall determine off-street parking requirements.
E.
Exemptions.
1.
Single-family and Two Family Dwellings. Unless otherwise provided herein, single-family and two-family dwelling units are exempt from the provisions of this Section.
2.
CRD and UPT Zoning Districts. Unless otherwise provided herein, all uses within the CRD and UPT zoning districts are exempt from the requirements of this Article.
Section 4.3.10. - Parking for Mixed Uses.
Mixed use parking shall comply with the standards listed below.
A.
Mixed Use Projects. For mixed use projects, such as a planned development, approved by the City Council with a specific percentage of individual uses, total off-street parking requirements shall be calculated based upon the requirements applicable to each individual use.
B.
Shopping Centers. For commercial shopping centers or other centers that may provide a variety of mixed uses, the parking requirements for a general retail use shall apply.
Section 4.3.11. - Change in Required Number of Spaces.
A.
Reduction in Spaces. Unless otherwise provided herein, a reduction in the required number of parking spaces may be granted as a variance by the Board of Zoning Appeals or as a waiver to a planned development approval granted by the Council.
B.
Increase or Decrease in Number of Required Parking Spaces. As applicable to the type of development order, the Director may authorize an increase or decrease in the number of parking spaces in an amount not to exceed ten percent of the required number of spaces.
C.
Additional Parking.
1.
Variance. Excluding planned developments, any application which requests an increase of parking equal to or greater than ten percent of required parking shall be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals as a variance.
2.
Planned Developments. Any request for an increase of parking equal to or greater than twenty-five percent of required parking which affects a planned development shall be considered as request for approval of a waiver by the Council.
3.
Standards for Additional Parking Spaces. An application to provide parking in excess of the minimum requirements shall comply, as applicable, with the standards for a variance or the standards for a planned development waiver. In addition, the requests shall consider the additional standards listed below.
(A)
Additional Open Pervious Space. Additional open space, at a ratio of 1.0 square feet for each additional square foot of paved parking and vehicular circulation area, shall be provided. The additional pervious open space shall be provided as additional landscaping, pedestrian amenities, or pervious open space and shall be calculated and identified on the project site plan. This additional open space shall not be counted as complying with any open space, landscaping or other similar requirements of this UDO.
(B)
Enhanced Site Appearance. The additional open space and landscaping shall be utilized to enhance the visual appearance of the site, the vehicular entries, and the parking areas. The method for visual enhancements shall be indicated in the application for development approval.
Table 4.3.3.
Off-Parking Street Parking Standards
EXPAND
Category of Use Parking Spaces Required Additional Standards
(GSF = Gross Square Feet)
Residential
Dormitory, Fraternity or Sorority Residence To be Determined Parking study required
Dwelling, Accessory 1 per unit
Dwelling, Multifamily 1.5 per dwelling with none or one bedroom
2. per dwelling with 2 or more bedrooms
1 per 250 GSF of office space 1 per 25 units for guest parking.
Dwelling, Single-family, Attached 2 per dwelling Garage may count as 1 space.
Dwelling, Single-family, Detached 2 per dwelling Garage may count as 1 space.
Dwelling, Townhouse 2 per dwelling (1) Garage may count as 1 space.
(2) Remaining space cannot be located in front yard.
(3) Separate parking area for all or some of required parking may be provided.
Dwelling, Two Family 2 per dwelling Garage may count as 1 space.
Dwelling, Zero Lot Line 2 per dwelling Garage may count as 1 space.
Home Occupation To be determined As required by Director
Guest Cottage 1 per cottage
Loft Dwelling See "Second Floor Dwelling" See "Second Floor Dwelling."
Manufactured Dwelling 2 per dwelling
Mobile Home Dwelling 2 per dwelling
Mobile Home, Park 2 per dwelling
1 per 250 GSF of office space 1 per 25 units for guest parking.
Models, Residential 4 per model (1) Director may approve centralized parking for a site with multiple models.
(2) All parking subject to the following:
Parking for disabled with be paved and provide paved access to walkways.
Other parking can be surfaced with materials acceptable to the City Engineer.
Permanent parking for models to be paved as required by this UDO.
Personal care home, Type I 3 per home (1) Garage may count as 1 space.
(2) Parking design must be consistent with area character.
Personal care home, Type II 1 per 4 residents
1 per 250 GSF of office space (1) Garage may count as 1 space.
(2) Parking design must be consistent with area character.
Personal care home, Type III 1 per 2 beds Parking study may be required.
Second Floor Dwelling 1 per dwelling with none or 1 bedroom
1.5 per dwelling with 2 or more bedrooms (1) Parking may be provided using one or more of the following methods:
•Onsite parking
•Shared parking
•Off-site parking
•Reserved parking in a garage
(2) Agreement for long-term parking must be acceptable to City Attorney.
(3) Parking must be located with 1,500 feet, via shortest pedestrian route, of the dwelling.
(4) Not more than 25% of parking may be provided in free on-street public parking.
Civic and Public
Assembly Halls 1 per 3 permanent seats
1 per 200 GSF of meeting area (without permanent seating)
1 per 250 GSF of office space Required parking to be provided for other uses such as bars or lounges, restaurants, retail, etc.
Cemeteries and Mausoleums To be Determined Parking study required
Club or Lodge, Membership Only 1 per 200 GSF space of floor area
Club or Lodge, Membership Only, Not-for-Profit 1 per 200 GSF space of floor area
Convent or Monastery To be Determined Parking study required
Cultural Facilities 1 per 3 permanent seats
1 per 600 GSF of facility (without permanent seating)
1 per 250 GSF of office area Parking study may be required
Hospice 2 spaces per bed
Hospitals 2 spaces per bed (1) Parking study may be required.
2) Required parking to be provided for other uses such as associated business or professional offices, medical offices, clinics, laboratories, etc.
Places of Worship, Less than 250 eats 1 per 4 occupants based upon maximum capacity
1 per 250 GSF of meeting area (without permanent seating) (1) Parking study may be required.
2) Required parking may be provided for other uses such as schools, day care, residential facilities, etc.
Places of Worship, 250 or more Seats Same as Places of Worship, Less than 250 Seats Same as Places of Worship, Less than 250 Seats
Public Uses 1 per 250 GSF of office floor area
1 per 250 GSF of meeting area (without permanent seating) (1) Parking study may be required.
2) Required parking may be provided for other uses such as schools, day care, etc.
Schools, Public and Private
Elementary and Middle/Junior 2 spaces per classroom Parking study may be required
Schools, Public and Private, High Schools 5 spaces per classroom Parking study may be required
Schools, Specialized To be determined Parking study required
Shelter, Homeless To be determined Parking study required
Shelter, Temporary To be determined Parking study required
Universities or Colleges, To be determined Parking study required
Recreation
Amusements, Indoors Bowling Alley
2 per lane
Required spaces per additional uses
Video Parlor
1 per 4 machine Other uses without fixed seats/equipment: 1 per 200 GSF of enclosed area.
Amusement, Outdoors 10 per acre Parking study may be required
Cryptocurrency Mining 5 total spaces N/A
Golf Course 20 per 9 holes or portion thereof
1 per 300 square feet of clubhouse
Required spaces per additional uses such as restaurants, meeting rooms, etc. Parking study may be required
Recreation, Active 10 spaces per acre when located in association with a park, school, place of worship or similar use.
25 spaces per acre when a principal use.
Recreation, Passive 5 spaces per acre when located in association with a park, school, place of worship or similar use.
10 spaces per acre when a principal use.
Recreation Centers, Private Swimming Pool
20 spaces minimum
1 per 5 members
1 per 200 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Recreational Establishment 1 per 400 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Shooting Range, Indoors 1 per individual bay, range or station
1 per 250 GSF of office space
Shooting Range, Outdoors 1 per individual bay, range or station
1 per 250 GSF of office space
Tennis Center or Club To be determined Parking study required
Theater, Drive-in To be determined Parking study required
Theater, Indoor 1 per 3 seats Parking study may be required
Theater, Indoor 1 per 3 seats or
1 per 25 GSF of floor area of largest room without fixed seating
Agricultural-Related Uses
Apiculture To be determined As required by Director
Chipmill To be determined As required by Director
Equestrian, Commercial To be determined Parking study required
Equestrian, Private None
Forestry None
Groves None
Greenhouse and Nursery, Wholesale To be determined Parking study required
Produce Stand To be determined As required by Director
Commercial and Personal Services
Adult Entertainment 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Artisans To be determined As required by Director
Arts and Crafts Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Auto/Truck Paint and Body Shop 1 per 150 GSF of enclosed area
Auto/Truck Rental, 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per rental auto
Auto/Truck Repair, Major 1 per 150 GSF of enclosed area
Auto/Truck Repair, Minor 1 per 150 GSF of enclosed area
Auto/Truck Sales, New and Used 1 per 250 GSF of enclosed display area
1 per 4,500 GSF of outdoor sales
1 per 250 GSF of service bay
Auto/Truck Service Station 3 per bay Minimum of 10 spaces required
Auto/Truck Tire Sales, and Installation 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per service bay
Auto/Truck Upholstery Shop 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per service bay/repair area
Auto/Truck Wash and Detail Facility 1 per 250 GSF of office area
Other spaces as determined by Director
Banks and Financial Institutions 1 per 250 GSF of office area
Banquet Facility 1 per 100 GSF of indoor and outdoor seating area Parking study may be required
Bars and Lounges 1 per 75 GSF of floor area
Bed and Breakfast Homestay 2 per dwelling
1 per rental room Parking must compatible with area.
Parking must be located off-street.
Bed and Breakfast Inn 2 per building with rental rooms
1 per rental room Parking must compatible with area.
Parking must be located off-street.
Boarding or Rooming House 1 per bedroom 1 per 25 units for guest parking.
Boat, Trailer and Marine Sales 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per 2,000 GSF of shop area
Building and Construction Trades Office and Shop 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per 2,000 GSF of shop area
Building Supplies, Retail 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Check Cashing Facilities 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Clinic, Medical or Dental 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Clinic and Hospital, Veterinary 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Consignment Shop 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Convalescent or Nursing Facility 1 per 250 GSF of office or administrative area
1 per 3 beds
Convenience Store, no Gas Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Convenience Store, with Gas Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
1 per 2 gas pumps
Data Processing Office 1 per 250 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Day Care, Type I None None
Day Care, Type II 1 space per 10 clients
1 pickup/drop-off space per 10 clients
1 space per van or bus If approved by Director, parking spaces for principal use may substitute for required parking.
Day Care, Type III 1 space per 10 clients
1 pickup/drop-off space per 10 clients
1 space per van or bus Parking study may be required
Day Labor Employment Office 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Dry Cleaning and Laundry, General 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Dry Cleaning and Laundry Stations 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Emergency Care Clinic 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Employment Agencies 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Equipment Sales, Service and Rental 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Extermination Service 1 per 250 GSF of floor area Adequate parking for all service vehicles
Farm Equipment Sales and Service 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
1 per 4,500 GSF of outdoor sales
Film and Video Studio To be determined Parking study required
Flea Market To be determined Parking study required
Fruit and Vegetable Market 1 per 250 GSF of enclosed floor area
1 per 4,500 GSF of outdoor sales
Funeral Home 1 per three seats
1 per 25 GSF of floor area of largest room without fixed seating
Furniture and Home Furnishing Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Gift and Antique Shop 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Grocery Store 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Health and Fitness Facility 1 space per 200 GSF of floor area Parking study may be requested
Hotel, Motel or Inn 1 per sleeping room
1 per 3 permanent seats
1 per 100 GSF of meeting area
1 per 250 GSF of office space
Required spaces per additional uses Parking study may be requested.
Additional uses include areas open to the public such as bars, lounges and restaurants.
Kennel, Board or Breeding 1 per 250 GSF of office plus
1 per 300 GSF of animal boarding and run
Laboratory, Medical, Dental or Veterinary 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Laundry, Coin Operated 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Mail and Packing Store 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Manufactured and Mobile Homes Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
1 per 4,500 GSF of outdoor sales
Massage Therapy 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Nursery and Garden Supply, Retail 1 per 250 GSF of office or administrative area
1 per 1,000 GSF of outdoor display area
Nursery, Wholesale 1 space per 4,500 GSF of outdoor area Parking study may be required
Office, Business and Professional 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Office, Medical and Dental 1 per 250 GSF of floor area Parking study may be requested for large-scale medical office facilities.
Office, Veterinary 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Package and Liquor Store 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Paint, Glass and Wallpaper Stores 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Parking Garage, Commercial None
Parking Lot, Commercial None
Pawn Shops 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Personal Care Home, Type I None
Personal Care Home, Type II 1 per 2 beds
1 per 250 GSF of office or administrative area
Personal Care Home, Type III 1 per 2 beds
1 per 250 GSF of office or administrative area Parking study may be required
Personal Services 1 per 250 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Pharmacy or Drug Stores 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Print Shop 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Recreational Vehicle Park See Additional Standards As provided in Chapter 3
Repair Services, Accessory 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Repair Services, General 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Repair Services, Limited 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Restaurant, Accessory To be determined Parking study required.
Parking may not be required if all users are generated by principal use or uses.
Restaurant, Fast Food 1 per 75 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Restaurant, General 1 per 75 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Restaurants, Specialty 1 per 75 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Restaurant, Take-out 1 per 75 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Retail Sales, General 1 per 250 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
School, Vocational and Non-academic To be determined Parking study required
Tattoo and Body Piercing Shop 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Taxidermy 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Television and Studio 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Transitional Housing Facility, Type I To be determined Parking study required
Transitional Housing Facility, Type II To be determined Parking study required
Transient Lodging 1 per bed
1 per 250 GSF of floor area Parking study may be required
Upholstery Shop 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Used Merchandise/Second Hand Goods Store 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Video Game and Amusement Parlor 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Video Rental and Sales 1 per 250 GSF of floor area
Manufacturing and Industrial
Auto, Vehicle and Truck Storage and Maintenance Facility 1 per vehicle to be stored
1 per service bay for maintenance
1 per 1,000 GSG of floor area
Beverage Production and Bottling 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Building Supplies, Wholesale 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Bulk Storage, Flammable 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Bulk Storage, Non-flammable 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Cold Storage and Distribution 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Computer Assembly 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Concrete Batching and Asphalt Plant 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Contractor's Storage Yard and Office 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Distribution and Warehousing 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Dry Cleaning and Laundry Plants 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Equipment Storage, Outdoor To be determined As required by Director
Express or Parcel Delivery Service 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Food Processing 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Hazardous Waste Disposal Facilities 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Junk, Salvage or Auto Wrecking Yards 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Manufacturing, Heavy 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Manufacturing, Light 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Moving, Storage and Transfer 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Outdoor Advertising and Sign Fabrication 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Publishing, Printing and Binding 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Recycling Collection Box 1 per box May be included as part of required parking associated with the location of the recycling box
Recycling Collection Center 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Recycling Collection Facility 2 per facility
Storage, Self Service 1 per 75 storage units
2 per manager's/security quarters
4 per office
Tire Retreading and Recapping 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Towing Services 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
1 per vehicle to be stored
Vehicle/Truck Storage 1 per 250 GSF of office area
1 per vehicle to be stored
Warehousing and Distribution, General 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Wholesale, General 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Communications, Mining, Transportation and Utilities
Airports To be determined Parking study required
Bus and Railway Passenger Stations To be determined Parking study required
Helipad, Accessory To be determined Parking study required
Heliport 2 per approved landing area Additional parking may be required by Director
Mining and Extraction To be determined Parking study required
Railroad Yard To be determined Parking study required
Sanitary Landfill To be determined Parking study required
Telecommunications and Digital Exchange 1 per 2,000 GSF of floor area
Terminal, Truck, Freight, Rail, or Water To be determined Parking study required
Utility Plant To be determined Parking study required
Utility, Major To be determined As required by Director
Utility, Minor To be determined As required by Director
Wireless Communications Facilities 1 per tower May be waived by Director
Accessory, Similar and Temporary Uses
Accessory Uses None
Similar Use Number of spaces required for the use to which compared
Temporary Building or Structure To be determined As required by Director
Temporary Use or Special Event To be determined based upon application and nature of use or event As required by Director
  D.
Bicycle Parking in Lieu of Minimum Parking.
1.
Applicability. Commercial buildings and multi-family residential buildings may elect to reduce their minimum parking requirements by providing bicycle parking at a rate of exchange of one standard parking space for every eight units of bicycle parking provided. Maximum allowable exchange will be determined by the Planning Director on a case by case basis.
Rate of exchange
EXPAND
Parking Requirement Units of Bicycle Parking Parking Reduction
3 or fewer Not eligible for reduction. Not eligible for reduction.
Minimum of 4 8 units 1 Space
Minimum of 5 16 units 2 Spaces
Minimum of ... 8 units = 1 space ...
  2.
Function and Design. The recommended bike rack by the Association of Bicycle and Pedestrian Professionals is the inverted "U" design. This design is economical, secure, and well designed to meet the needs of many types of bicyclists and bicycles. Other designs may be used provided that they meet the functional criteria described below.
Functional Criteria:
(A)
Shall support the bicycle frame in at least two places.
(B)
Must be designed in such a way as to allow the use of both cable and "U" locks.
(C)
Must be designed in such a way as to allow bicycles with different types of frames to lock to the rack.
(D)
Must be made of a material that is weather resistant and is difficult to cut with hand tools or saws.
(E)
The racks shall be cemented or bolted into concrete to prevent theft or vandalism.
3.
Placement and Setbacks. The bicycle racks must be placed within 75 feet of an entrance and in a visible, well-lit area. The bicycle racks may be placed in separate locations on the property but may not be reduced to fewer than two racks per location. Bicycle racks must be at least 24 inches away from buildings and five feet away from fire hydrants and infrastructure. The minimum distance between two bike racks placed side by side should be no less than 30 inches. If the bike racks are to be located within a parking lot or area with traffic, it is recommended that physical buffers or signage be created to protect bicyclists and notify vehicles to exercise caution.
(Ord. No. 05-32, § 1, 4-5-05; Ord. No. 09-40, § 1, 7-14-09; Ord. No. 15-43, § 1, 9-8-15; Ord. No. 15-55, § 3, 11-17-15; Ord. No. 23-007, § 5, 1-31-23)
Section 4.3.12. - Shared Parking.
A.
Permitted. The Council, may, as part of an approval of a new or expanded use, new construction, substantial renovation, or alteration or expansion of an existing site, approve the use of shared parking to reduce overall parking requirements. The basis for approval of an application to establish shared parking includes the factors listed below.
1.
Complementary Uses. Use of a building or structure for two or more uses which possess complementary, rather than competing, peak hours of usage.
2.
Shared Parking Study. Preparation, in a professionally accepted manner, of a shared parking study by a qualified professional as indicated in Section 4.3.12.
3.
Development Order. Any development order approved by the Council which includes the use of shared parking shall include a separate agreement for shared parking. The agreement, at a minimum, shall include the provisions listed below.
(A)
Provide one or more specific methods to re-assess the agreement if future parking problems or changes in use occurs.
(B)
Provide a legal description of the land and structures included within the agreement.
(C)
Provide for a term of the agreement of at least five years.
(D)
Provide a site plan to indicate specific uses, hours of operation, location of parking facilities, and similar information required to illustrate the operation of the shared parking.
(E)
Assure the availability of all parking spaces affected by the agreement for a period not less than the term of the agreement.
(F)
Provide for the termination of the agreement if there is a change in the uses supporting shared parking agreement, and require each individual user to comply with all applicable parking requirements.
B.
Amount of Parking. The amount of parking provided pursuant to a shared parking agreement shall be determined as follows:
1.
Multiply the individual uses by the minimum required parking percentages per time period as contained in the five vertical columns of Table 4.3.4;
2.
Add the sum of the calculations; and
3.
The required parking is the largest number of spaces resulting from the calculations.
Table 4.3.4.
Shared Parking Calculations
EXPAND
USE Weekday
Midnight
to 6:00 am Weekday
9:00 am
to 4:00 pm Weekday
6:00 pm to
Midnight Weekend
9:00 am to
4:00 pm Weekend
6:00 pm to
Midnight
Residential 100%  60%  90% 80%  90%
Office   5% 100%  10% 10%   5%
Commercial and Retail   5%  70%  90% 100%   70%
Hotel  80% 80% 100% 80% 100%
Restaurant  10% 50% 100% 50% 100%
Entertainment  10%  40% 100% 80% 100%
Others 100% 100% 100% 100%  100%
  Section 4.3.13. - Off-Site Parking.
A.
Permitted. Off-site parking is permitted, subject to the standards of this Section.
B.
Zoning District. Off-site parking shall be permitted only within a nonresidential zoning district.
C.
Maximum Distance. Not more than 500 feet shall separate the nearest public door of a use and the nearest property line of the lot utilized for off-site parking.
D.
Measurement of Distance. Distance shall be measured based upon public pedestrian circulation patterns.
E.
Agreement for Off-site Parking. An agreement for off-site parking shall be approved, subject to the requirements of Section 4.3.13.
Section 4.3.14. - Off-Street Loading Requirements.
A.
Required. Off-street loading facilities shall be provided as required in this Section.
B.
Legal Nonconformities. This Section does not require installation of off-street loading facilities for uses that exist upon the effective date of this Code.
C.
Change of Use. The City may require installation of required loading spaces when a change in use of any existing structure occurs. The installation may be required based upon such factors as the square feet occupied by the new use, operational characteristics of the new use, existing traffic circulation patterns, traffic safety or similar circumstances.
D.
Expansion or Alteration. Any uses or structures which are enlarged, expanded, or changed, shall provide the required off-street loading facilities for the additional increment of the enlarged, expanded or changed use or structure.
E.
Size of Loading Spaces. Off-street loading spaces shall comply with the minimum dimensions indicated in Table 4.3.5.
Table 4.3.5.
Minimum Dimensions for Loading Spaces
EXPAND
Dimension Standard Comments
Height 1 14 feet Measured from average road grade.
Width 1 12 feet None.
Length 1 48 feet Excluding aprons, access or maneuvering areas, platforms and other similar appurtenances.
Maneuver Apron 1 12 feet wide
35 feet long None.
Note.
1 The Director may reduce or increase the height, width, and length requirements based upon the nature of use and trucks to utilize loading zones.
  Section 4.3.15. - Required Number of Loading Spaces.
A.
Number of Spaces. The required number of loading spaces is indicated in Table 4.3.6.
B.
Applicability. Off-street loading spaces shall comply with the requirements of Table 4.3.6 and shall be applicable to all structures containing commercial, business, industrial, manufacturing, storage, warehousing, processing, offices, hotels, hospitals, airports, railroad terminals, and similar uses as may be required by the Traffic Engineer.
Table 4.3.6.
Minimum Number of Loading Spaces
EXPAND
Size of Structure (Gross Square Feet) Number of Spaces
Office Commercial/Industrial
0 to 10,000 1 1
10,001 to 50,000 1 2
50,001 to 100,000 2 3
Each additional 100,000 0.5 1
Note.
1 Size and location to be determined during plan review.
  C.
Exception. Hotels and motels shall provide loading spaces based upon the number of rooms. An application for development order approval for a hotel, or which includes a hotel, shall provide a study documenting the number of loading spaces to be provided.
D.
Cooperative Establishment and Use Of Facilities. Two or more neighboring uses may establish common off-street loading facilities, subject to approval by the City Engineer. The total number of common off-street loading spaces shall not be less than the number required for individual users, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Criteria for reduction in the total number of off-street loading spaces include the following:
1.
Times of usage of the truck loading facilities by the individual users;
2.
The location of the proposed common facilities; and
3.
The character of the merchandise involved.
E.
Other Requirements. In order to establish common off-street loading facilities, the standards listed below are applicable.
1.
Consent. Written consent is obtained from all affected property owners.
2.
Written Agreement. All conditions relating to the use, location, construction, and maintenance of the common facilities will be provided in a written agreement.
F.
Location. Except as otherwise provided, off-street loading facilities shall be located on the same property that they serve.
G.
Residential Zoning Districts. An off-street loading facility may be located within 50 feet of a residential zoning district if hours of operation begin at or after 7:00 a.m. and end not later than 11:00 p.m. For the purposes of this Section, hours of operation shall not include routine maintenance, cleaning or similar activities within a building.
H.
Enclosure. The City may require off-street loading facilities to be enclosed to minimize visual impacts, noise, and related effects on adjacent property owners.
I.
Refrigerated Trucks. Refrigerated trucks and other trucks which require compressors, engines, refrigeration equipment, and similar equipment to be continuously or periodically operational shall not park within 250 feet of any residential zoning district during the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
J.
Circulation. Access and maneuvering areas, ramps, and other vehicular circulation areas associated with such facilities shall not be located on a public or private street right-of-way. All vehicular circulation shall be so arranged that the vehicles are not required to back from the street into the facility nor required to back from the facility into a street or other public-right-of-way.
K.
Construction and Maintenance. Off-street loading facilities shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in accordance with the standards listed below.
1.
Drainage and Paving. Off-street loading facilities shall be properly graded for drainage and paved with concrete or asphaltic concrete consistent with City standards.
2.
Maintenance. Off-street loading facilities shall be maintained in good condition, free of weeds, dust, trash, and debris.
3.
Lighting. Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that the source of light does not shine directly into adjacent residential properties or into traffic on adjoining streets.
4.
Entrances and Exits. Entrances and exits to the facility shall be located so as to minimize traffic congestion or prevent vehicles from backing from the street into the facility. Streets, alleys, or other public rights-of-way shall not be considered part of an off-street loading facility.
5.
Striping. All off-street loading spaces shall be striped and clearly marked in a manner consistent with City standards.
(Ord. No. 09-40, § 1, 7-14-09)
