Chapter 16 - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— For provisions relevant to peddling of agricultural products and implements, see Ga. Code, § 84-2010; for other provisions relevant to peddlers, see Title 84, Ch. 20.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Solicitations for charity—Permit required; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to solicit property or financial assistance of any kind, to sell or offer to sell any article, tag, service emblem, publication, ticket, advertisement, subscription or anything of value, on the plea or the representation that such sale or solicitation or the proceeds thereof is for a charitable, educational, religious, patriotic or philanthropic purpose, on the streets, in any office or business building, by house-to-house canvass, or in any other public or private place, or by telephone, mail or personal solicitation or in any other way in the city unless such person shall have first obtained from the chief of police a permit to do so; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to persons where such solicitation or sales are made by the members of an organization to other members thereof without remuneration to the solicitor, or where such solicitation or sales occur upon property owned or leased by such persons; provided, however, that the permit required by this Code section shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance and shall be renewable on an annual basis.
(Ord. No. 5-12-42, § 1; Ord. No. 96-61, 7-9-96)
Sec. 16-2. - Same—Application; information.
Such person desiring to do any of the acts detailed in the preceding section hereof shall first make a written application for a permit to do so to the chief of police. Such application shall contain the following information:
(a)
Name of person and organization applying for a permit to solicit and the address of its headquarters together with any evidence of tax exempt status as defined by O.C.G.A. Section 48-7-25 or Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(b)
The name and address of the person who will be in direct charge of conducting this solicitation.
(c)
The purpose for which any receipts derived from such solicitation are to be used.
(Ord. of 5-12-42, § 2; Ord. No. 96-70, 7-30-96)
Sec. 16-3. - Same—Investigation; denial of permit; waiver of provisions.
Upon the filing of such application, the chief of police shall immediately make an investigation to determine the truth or falsity of the recitals in the application, and the amount of the net proceeds which it is contemplated will be received by the organization for which such soliciting or sales are performed. In the event the chief of police determines that the organization in whose name such soliciting or sales are done will not receive at least 75 percent of the net proceeds derived from such solicitation or sales, he shall refuse to issue a permit for such soliciting or sales; and in the event he determines that any of the material statements of facts in such application are false, he shall likewise refuse to issue a permit. Where any person and the organization which he represents are known by the chief of police to come within the provisions above recited, the chief of police may waive the filing of a written application, and issue the permit provided by this section.
(Ord. of 5-12-42, § 3)
Sec. 16-4. - Same—Appeal, hearing, findings.
Upon refusal of the chief of police to grant a permit, he shall notify the applicant, in writing, and within ten days thereof the applicant may appeal to the commission. If the commission, after a hearing, determines that the applicant is entitled to a permit, the commission shall, by resolution, direct the issuance of such permit by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 5-12-42, § 4)
Sec. 16-5. - Farm products—Definition.
The term farm products as used herein shall include vegetables, fruits, melons, chickens, eggs, dairy products, and all other products of farms or gardens.
(Ord. of 7-13-48, § 1)
Sec. 16-6. - Same—Delivery in street prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to peddle or sell farm products in the city where delivery of such products is made in the streets of the city; but it is not the intention hereof to prohibit the peddling or selling of such products where delivery is made directly to stores or residences.
(Ord. of 7-13-48, § 2)
Sec. 16-7. - Same—Time limitation on stopping vehicle.
While engaged in travelling from residence to residence or from store to store and peddling or selling farm products to consumers, no vehicles shall stop in the same spot in the streets of the city for a longer period than 30 minutes.
(Ord. of 7-13-48, § 3)
Sec. 16-8. - Same—Near like businesses prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to peddle farm products to consumers in the streets of the city for any period of time while within 50 feet of a licensed store which keeps on hand or sells farm products.
(Ord. of 7-13-48, § 4)
Sec. 16-9. - Flowers or shrubbery—License or permit required for peddling.
It shall be unlawful to peddle or offer for sale from house to house or place to place in the city or its police district any cut flowers, flower plants or shrubbery unless the person so peddling or offering the same for sale has with him at the time either a regular business license issued by the city or a written permit signed by the chief of police of the city.
(Ord. of 3-28-33, § 1)
Sec. 16-10. - Same—Persons excepted; places designated.
The preceding section is not intended to prohibit the sale of wild flowers, evergreens or other plants or flowers by country people not regularly engaged in the flower business, where such sales are made at places in the city designated by the chief of police.
(Ord. of 3-28-33, § 2)
Sec. 16-11. - Fish—Door to door peddling prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or his agents, to peddle or offer for sale upon the streets or in other public places, or from house to house or store to store, in the city or its police district, from any truck, automobile, wagon, or other vehicle, or from a basket or other container, or otherwise, any fresh fish, oysters, shrimp, crab, lobster or similar fresh fish or seafoods.
(Ord. of 3-29-32, § 1)
Sec. 16-12. - Same—Exceptions.
The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply to:
(a)
The delivery of such fish or foods upon orders previously taken, where each such order is delivered in a separate package or container in which it is wrapped at the regularly located place of business of the seller.
(b)
The peddling of strings of fresh fish caught within 25 miles of the city, where such fish are peddled within four hours after being caught.
(Ord. of 3-29-32, § 2)
Sec. 16-13. - Meat, peddling prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself or agent, to peddle, sell, offer for sale, or to have in possession for the purpose of peddling, selling or offering for sale, any meat or meat products upon the streets or from house to house within the city or the police district thereof; provided, this section is not intended to interfere with the delivery of meat or meat products sold at or ordered from regular licensed butcher shops.
(Ord. of 3-21-27, § 1)
State Law reference— For provisions relevant to the inspection of meat products, see Ga. Code, §§ 42-401, 42-402, 42-406; as to sanitary regulations in the production of meat products, see §§ 42-401, 42-402.
Secs. 16-14—16-30. - Reserved.
