ARTICLE XI. - PHOSPHATE-FREE HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY DETERGENTS[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Ordinance No. 89-78, adopted July 25, 1989, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, inclusion of §§ 1—6 as Art. XI, §§ 13-511—13-515, was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 13-511. - Declaration of policy.
It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the city to encourage the use of clean, phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than five-tenths percent phosphorus by weight. The city finds that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorous in wastewater discharge so as to protect Georgia's rivers and lakes downstream and promote health, safety and welfare, and to prevent injury to human health, plant and animal life and property. It is vital to the health, well-being and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the city that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(Ord. No. 89-78, § 1, 7-25-89)
Sec. 13-512. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article:
Household laundry detergent means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder, or other form used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes. The term "household laundry detergent" shall not mean:
(1)
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner, or other substance that is intended to be used for nonlaundry cleaning purposes;
(2)
A detergent used in dairy, beverage, or food processing cleaning equipment;
(3)
A phosphorous acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner, or metal conditioner;
(4)
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics, or health care facilities or in agricultural production;
(5)
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
(6)
A detergent manufactured, stored, or distributed for use or sale outside of the state;
(7)
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory, and engineering laboratory;
(8)
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry services for hospital, health care facility, or veterinary hospital.
Person means any person, firm, partnership or corporation.
Phosphorous means elemental phosphorous.
(Ord. No. 89-78, § 2, 7-25-89)
Sec. 13-513. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than five-tenths percent phosphorous by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(Ord. No. 89-78, § 3, 7-25-89)
Sec. 13-514. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to penalty as provided by section 1-8 of the Columbus Code of Ordinances. Each sales transaction shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalty provided in subsection (a) above, the city may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 89-78, §§ 4, 5, 7-25-89)
Sec. 13-515. - Right to damages or relief.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right to any person to damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or property arising out of a violation of this article and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding therefor.
(Ord. No. 89-78, § 6, 7-25-89)
Secs. 13-516—13-520. - Reserved.
