Chapter 17A - PRIVATE DETECTIVES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 63-49, §§ 1—8 enacted the provisions codified as Ch. 17A. Since said ordinance did not amend this Code, the manner of codification has been in the editor's discretion.

Sec. 17A-1. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and the derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(a)
City is the City of Columbus, Georgia.
(b)
Person is any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
(c)
Private detective is any person who accepts employment for hire, fee, or reward to furnish or supply information as to the personal character or actions or identity of any person or as to the character or kind of business or occupation of any person. The term shall not include a detective or officer belonging to the law enforcement agencies of the United States or of any state, county, or city.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 1, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-2. - License required; qualifications of licensee.
(a)
Required. No person shall operate as a private detective in the city without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided from the chief of police.
(b)
Residence. No person shall operate as a private detective unless he shall have been a resident of the State of Georgia for a period of two (2) years and a resident of the city and county, or Fort Benning Reservation for two (2) years.
(c)
Conviction of crime. No person shall operate as a private detective if he has ever been convicted of a misdemeanor or a felony.
(d)
Experience. No person shall operate as a detective unless he shall have had at least two (2) years of prior experience with a law enforcement agency or three (3) years experience as an investigator with a private detective agency or other commercial concern or two (2) years experience with a government agency.
(Ord. No. 63-49, §§ 2A—2D, 6-3-63; Ord. No. 69-210, § 1, 11-10-69)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 69-210, § 1, amended § 17A-2(b) by reducing the state residency from five to two years and by adding after the word "county" the words, "or Fort Benning Reservation".
Sec. 17A-3. - Application for license.
Applications for licenses issued hereunder shall be made upon blank forms prepared and made available by the chief of police and shall state:
(a)
The full name, age, residence, present and previous occupations of the applicant;
(b)
A specific description of the location of the principal place of business of the applicant;
(c)
The number of years experience the applicant has had as a private detective or in the related fields;
(d)
The length of time applicant has been a bona fide resident of the State of Georgia, City of Columbus, and County of Muscogee immediately preceding the filing of the application.
(e)
A list of three character references and at least three business references who have known the applicant for a period of at least five (5) years.
(f)
A list of dates and places of employment for ten (10) years prior to date of application.
(g)
A photograph and fingerprints made by the police department of the city.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 3, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-4. - Investigation of applicant.
Within ten (10) days after receipt of an application as provided for herein the chief of police shall cause an investigation to be made of the applicant and his proposed operation.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 4, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-5. - Issuance of license.
If upon investigation the chief of police, shall find that the applicant is a good moral character and has never been convicted of a misdemeanor or a felony, has met the resident requirement, hereunder, and has had adequate experience as required, hereunder, he shall issue a license to applicant.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 5, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-6. - Regulations, standards applicable to employees.
All employees of any person having or applying for a license hereunder shall meet the standard set forth above and shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 6, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-7. - Notice of license to be filed with interested agencies, organizations.
If approved, applicant must file a notice with all law enforcement agencies of his license within fifteen (15) days after approval and to such other bureaus or civic organizations as designated by the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 7, 6-3-63)
Sec. 17A-8. - Transferability of licenses; revocation, suspension.
(a)
Transferability. Licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferable.
(b)
Revocation and suspension. Licenses issued hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension by the chief of police for violation of any of the provisions of the chapter or misconduct by the licensee or his employees, after reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard has been given the licensee. The chief of police shall immediately notify any licensee, by personal service, of such suspension or revocation.
(Ord. No. 63-49, § 8, 6-3-63)
