ARTICLE XVII. - RAILROADS

Sec. 20-17.1. - Speed at street intersections; exceptions; stop required before railroad intersection.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company or employee thereof to operate any locomotive engine or cars, or both, so as to enter the intersection of the railroad track with any street or avenue in this city at a rate of speed greater than 15 miles per hour, but once the lead engine or car has entered and crossed the street or avenue, it shall not be unlawful for the speed of such train to exceed 15 miles per hour, with a maximum speed of 20 miles per hour; provided, however, that between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., it shall be lawful for any railroad company, or employee thereof to operate a locomotive engine or cars, or both, at any speed up to a maximum of 20 miles per hour at any point on Ninth Street in said city.
(b)
The above provisions do not apply to the following portions of railroad tracks, and the speed limits on these tracks will be as follows:
EXPAND
Description Speed limit
(1) Railroad tracks which intersect Morton Drive between Hamilton Road and Fortson Road:
From a point 500 feet north of the centerline of Morton Drive to the Harris County Line. 30 mph at all times
(2) Railroad tracks which intersect Flat Rock Road between Warm Springs Road and Greenfield Drive:
From a point 500 feet east of the centerline of Flat Rock Road to the Harris County Line. 30 mph at all times
(3) Railroad tracks which intersect Tenth Avenue between Ninth Street and Tenth Street:
From a point 500 feet east of the centerline of Tenth Avenue to a point 500 feet northeast of the centerline of Morris Road. 20 mph at all times
(4) Railroad tracks which intersect Morris Road between Fisher Drive and Alta Vista Drive:
From a point 500 feet northeast of Morris Road to a point 500 feet northeast of Schatulga Road. 40 mph at all times
(5) Railroad tracks which intersect Schatulga Road south of Transport Boulevard:
From a point 500 feet northeast of Schatulga Road to the Talbot County Line. 49 mph at all times
  (c)
Where a locomotive engine or engine with car crosses over intersecting line or lines of a railroad, either commercial or street railroads, such engine or engines and cars shall come to a stop not less than 50 feet from such crossings unless otherwise provided in this Code; provided, however, if such intersecting line or lines of railroad are provided with "derailers" or other safety devices so as to prevent a locomotive or car on such intersecting line from colliding with the locomotive engine or cars first mentioned, then it shall not be necessary to stop.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 18, 7-20-71; Ord. No. 77-16, § 1, 2-8-77; Ord. No. 85-57, §§ 1—3, 6-4-85)
Sec. 20-17.2. - Crossings: regulating; maintenance.
All railroad companies owning or operating railroads within the corporate limits of the city shall be required to construct and keep in good repair and safe condition at the various street crossings and at such other points throughout the city as may be designated by the city manager, on suitable crossings over the tracks of such railroads. The crossings shall be constructed upon plans and specifications approved by the city manager and the superintendent of public works; and when so required shall be built in accordance with plans furnished by the superintendent of public works. On Broad Street, between First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Avenues, between Fourth and Nineteenth Streets, wherever it may be required and so designated by the city manager, there shall be built two crossings, each to be at least 20 feet wide; one on each side of the avenue or street. All other crossings shall be at least 40 feet wide. Whenever it may be required and when so notified by the superintendent of public works, the railroad company shall construct and maintain across and through its tracks sidewalk and crosswalk crossings, of width not less than eight feet. The crossing shall be built in a good and substantial manner and of such material as to maintain the surface of the driveway or walk even with the top of the rails; and the space between the rails must be kept smooth and even with the top of the rails. Wherever crossings are located where the grade of the street and the tracks vary or differ, suitable approaches to the crossing shall be built and maintained by the railroad company.
Wherever the distance from center to center of two or more tracks located on one street is not greater than 12 feet, the space between such tracks shall be kept in good order and repair by the railroad company owning or operating such tracks. And at wagon or foot crossings over such tracks the space between the tracks shall be subject to the same regulation as that between the rails.
The grade of the railroad tracks and that of the streets along which they are laid must conform as far as practicable, and the railroad companies are hereby required to keep the surface of the street between the rails and 18 inches outside of each rail, smooth and even and not more than two inches below the top of the rails. Suitable openings or drains shall be built and maintained by the railroad companies under and through the several railroad tracks owned or operated by them, in order to effect the proper drainage of any street or area; such openings or drains to be located at such points as may be designated by the superintendent of public works; provided, certain tracks and locations when so designated by the superintendent of public works shall not be subject to the requirements of this section. When any crossing or section of tracks is in bad condition and does not conform to the requirements of this section, it shall be the duty of the superintendent of public works to notify the owner or superintendent or agent or operator of the railroad to have same put in order as prescribed in this section; and should the work not be done, or not approved by the superintendent of public works, upon conviction of such owner, or superintendent or agent or operator of any railroad having failed or refused to have such work done in conformity with the terms of this section in the recorder's court, the owner or superintendent or agent or operator shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 18, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-17.3. - Flagman required of railway companies.
It shall be the duty of the railway companies to have and maintain at all times at the crossing over its tracks located on Tenth Avenue, between Tenth Street and Ninth Street, a flagman whose duty it shall be to signal with a flag on a staff in hand by day and with a lighted lantern in hand by night, of approaching engine and engines and cars to vehicles; or, in lieu of such flagman, the engines and trains operated by the railway companies on such line of track may come to a full stop within 20 feet of the crossing of Tenth Avenue and Andrews Road over the tracks and be preceded by a flagman with a flag on a staff in hand by day and a lighted lantern in hand by night; and when such engine or engine and cars on the track is about to cross such street, such flagman shall proceed to the middle of the street, where he shall stop and give notice of the approach of such engine or engines and cars by waving the flag by day and the lighted lantern by night, and such engine or engines and cars shall not enter upon such crossing until the flagman shall have reached the middle of the street and give such notice. In lieu of providing a flagman at the aforementioned crossing, or of causing said engines and trains to come to a full stop and be preceded over said crossings by a flagman, as hereinbefore provided, the railway companies may, at their option, install and maintain automatic signalling devices at said crossing, satisfactory to the Council of Columbus, Georgia. The cost of the installation of said automatic signalling devices at said crossings shall be borne by the railway companies and Columbus, Georgia on a 1/3-1/3-1/3 basis.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 18, 7-20-71)
Sec. 20-17.4. - Time limit on blocking street.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate the same while engaged in local switching or any other intra city transit in such a manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period of time longer than five minutes.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate the same so that it shall stop in an intersection with a public street and block such public street longer than ten minutes including the time such train is in motion and the time such train is stopped.
(c)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be punished according to section 7 of the Charter of Columbus, Georgia, as codified, by a fine not exceeding $250.00 or imprisoned not to exceed 90 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 71-198, § 18, 7-20-71)
