ARTICLE IV. - LIST OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 4.01. - Districts.
The City of Dawson is hereby divided into Eleven (11) classes of zoning districts known as follows:
R-1:Single-Family Residential District
R-2:One-, Two-, and Multi-Family Residential District
R-PUD:Residential Planned Unit Development District
R-TH:Townhouse Development District
R-OI:Restricted Office-Institutional District
C-1:Neighborhood Commercial District
C-2:Central Business District
C-3:Highway Commercial District
C-4:Parkway Commercial District
C-PUD:Commercial Planned Unit Development District
I:Industrial District
Sec. 4.02. - Limited use (L.U.) provision.
The City of Dawson establishes the "Limited Use" Provision for the purpose of allowing an applicant to request that a certain property be classified as a limited use. In some areas of the City, a particular land use activity selected out of a general zoning classification may have less community impact than some of the other uses within that classification. For this reason, an applicant may request a rezoning petition to limit the use of a proposed property to a specified use only (i.e., C1-LU.). To wit: Neighborhood Commercial District limited to a "Beauty Shop". The limited use must be among the uses permitted in the zone district for which the limited use is taken. In the event that the conditions for which the limited use zoning was granted is violated, the property would revert to the prior zoning classification.
Sec. 4.03. - Official zoning map.
The boundaries of these districts are shown on the map which is designated as the Official Zoning Map of the City of Dawson. The official Zoning Map is on file in the office of the City Manager and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this Ordinance and have the same force and effects as if said Zoning Map and all such notations, references and other information shown there were fully set forth or described herein.
Except where reference on said Zoning Map to a street or other designated line is made by dimensions shown on said Map, the district boundary lines follow lot lines of the center lines or the streets or alleys, or such lines extended and the corporate limits of the City of Dawson as they existed at the time of adoption of this Ordinance. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any zoning district as shown on the Zoning Map, the Mayor and City Council shall rule on such boundaries.
