ARTICLE X. - C-1, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 10.01. - Statement of purpose.
The Neighborhood Commercial District is intended to permit retail business and service uses which are needed to serve nearby residential areas. In order to promote such business development uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business areas in locations which poses the mutual advantages of both the consumers and merchants, and thereby promotes the best use of land at certain strategic locations.
Sec. 10.02. - Permitted uses.
a.
Antique Stores.
b.
Barber shops/beauty shops and other personal service establishments.
c.
Clubs and lodges. (See Section 5.03c.)
d.
Day Care Centers (Day care centers as limited and defined in Article II) provided that no play equipment be located in the front yard and that signage be compatible to the neighborhood and not larger than regulated for home occupations. All state licensing requirements and regulations shall also apply.
e.
Laundry or dry cleaning establishments.
f.
Professional offices.
g.
Repairs, electrical or other household appliances, locks, radios, television and the like.
h.
Restaurants, in existing structures with no more than 2,000 square feet of floor space devoted to such use.
i.
Small retail businesses selling convenience goods and serving the adjacent residential neighborhoods such as drug, food, bakery and tailor shops.
j.
Thrift stores.
k.
Bed and Breakfasts.
l.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and Council.
Sec. 10.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
Churches, or other religious institutions. (See Section 5.03a.)
b.
Service stations.
c.
Convenience Store.
d.
Antique Mall.
e.
Adult Care Facilities.
f.
Congregate Personal Care Homes—as limited and defined in Article II.
g.
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving antennas.
h.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as approved by the Mayor and City Council.
Sec. 10.04. - Protective screening.
Protective screening for C-1 Districts adjacent to residential districts shall be in compliance with the regulations set forth in Section 3.15, Protective Screening of this Ordinance.
Sec. 10.05. - Area and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, Article XX.)
