ARTICLE XIII. - C-4, PARKWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 13.01. - Statement of purpose.
This District is primarily intended to provide commercial areas along highway that are major arterials or thoroughfares within the City of Dawson. The permitted uses are to be of such a character or designed so that they will not reduce the safety or transportation function of the roadway upon which they front. The commercial uses shall provide retail businesses and services that cater to the traveling public and/or to serve the needs of the immediate area. The design and development of commercial areas shall be accomplished so as to maintain the aesthetic quality of the environment created by such thoroughfares or parkways.
Sec. 13.02. - Permitted uses.
a.
Any retail or retail service establishment.
b.
Motels.
c.
Automobile sales and auto service.
d.
Service stations.
e.
Agricultural implement sales and service.
f.
Wholesale stores, storage buildings, warehouses, mini-warehouses distributing plans, freezers and lockers.
g.
Small fabrication and manufacturing shops, when employing not more than ten (10) employees in the office and manufacturing operations.
h.
Offices.
i.
Commercial Entertainment Clubs.
(Ord. No. 05-06, § 1(5), 6-9-05)
Sec. 13.03. - Conditional uses.
a.
Light manufacturing provided such use is entirely contained within one building not exceeding 10,000 square feet of floor area.
b.
Recreational and/or cultural uses of a commercial nature.
c.
Truck terminals.
d.
Churches and other religious institutions.
e.
Hospitals, clinics and nursing homes.
f.
Publicly owned and operated buildings.
Sec. 13.04. - Parkway development standards.
A.
Minimum frontage:
EXPAND
Interior lots: (a) 150 feet with ingress/egress access directly to the Parkway
(b) 100 feet with ingress/egress access to the Parkway provided through easement or right-of-way to curb cuts on the adjoining property.
Corner lots: 100 feet
  B.
Ingress and egress from such intersecting road shall not be closer than fifty (50) feet to the major arterial highway.
C.
The developer or his engineer shall consult with the State of Georgia Department of Transportation with regard to access to and egress from his property where such property abuts or adjoins a state highway and shall receive approval for his plan of access and egress, including driveways, from the State of Georgia, Department of Transportation.
D.
Access points upon the parkway shall have a minimum sight distance of 500 feet in the direction of oncoming traffic.
E.
Access points shall also meet DOT requirements.
F.
Setback shall be at least 40 feet at minimum building set back line measured for the street right-of-way property line.
G.
Off street parking and vehicle use areas landscaped requirements.
1.
Front Perimeter Landscape Areas. A twenty (20) foot wide strip of land, located between the front property line and the vehicular use area shall be landscaped. Width of sidewalks shall not be included within the twenty (20) foot wide front setback perimeter landscape area.
2.
Side and Rear Perimeter Landscaped Areas. A six (6) foot wide strip of land, located between the side and rear property lines and the vehicular use area, shall be landscaped, except that where the strip of land to be landscaped is between a side or rear property line and a vehicular use area used as an access way, a four (4) foot wide strip of land shall be landscaped.
H.
Material Requirements in Perimeter Area.
1.
Tree Count. The total tree count requirements within the front set-back perimeter landscape area shall be determined by using a ratio of one tree for each twenty-five (25) linear feet of lot frontage or major portion thereof with fifty (50) percent of said trees being shade trees.
2.
Ground Cover. Grass or other ground cover shall be placed on all areas within the front, side and rear seat back perimeter landscape areas not occupied by other landscape material, or permitted access-ways.
(Ord. No. 04-08, § 2, 7-8-04)
Sec. 13.05. - Limitations on signs.
The following types of signs or advertising devices are prohibited in the C-4 zoning districts.
a.
Roof signs.
b.
Sidewalk, sandwich or curb-type signs. * See also article XIX.
c.
Portable signs.
d.
Swinging or projecting signs.
e.
Rotating or animated signs involving motion or sound.
f.
Billboard.
g.
Flashing, blinking, or varying light intensity sings, except time, temperature and date.
h.
Signs on public right-of-way.
i.
Signs which contain or are in imitation of an official traffic sign or signal or contain the words "stop", "go", "slow", "caution", "danger", "warning", or similar words excepting construction signs and barricades and except when the words are incorporated in the permanent name of a business.
j.
Courtesy benches, trash cans, and similar devices on which advertising is displayed.
k.
Trailer signs.
Business Signs. Only one (1) freestanding business sign shall be permitted for each separate street frontage of a business establishment. Maximum size 60 sq. ft., Maximum height 35 ft., Set-back 10 ft. from right-of-way.
(Variances maybe granted from minimum standards as determined necessary and reasonable.)
