ARTICLE XVII. - NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
Any lawful use of the land or buildings existing at the date of passage of this Ordinance and located in a district in which it would not be permitted as a new use under the regulations of this Ordinance is hereby declared to be a "non-conforming use" and not in violation of this Ordinance at the date of adoption of this Ordinance; provided, however, that a non-conforming use shall be subject to, and the owner shall comply with, the following regulations.

Sec. 17.01. - Non-conforming use, continuation of use.
The non-conforming use of land, which exists when this Ordinance becomes effective, may be continued provided that:
a.
No such non-conforming use shall in any way be expanded or extended.
b.
If such non-conforming use or any portion thereof is discontinued for twelve (12) months or changed, any future use of such use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 17.02. - Restoration.
No building which houses a non-conforming use which has been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, Act of God, or by public enemy to the extent of fifty (50%) percent of its market value exclusive of the foundation at the time such damage occurred shall thereafter be made to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance. If such damage is less than fifty (50%) percent of its market value before said damage occurred, exclusive of the foundation, then such structure may be restored to the same non-conforming use as existed before such damage, provided, however, that a building permit to initiate restoration must be obtained within six (6) months of the occurrence of damage: otherwise the provisions of Section 17.03 will apply.
Sec. 17.03. - Discontinuance or abandonment.
Any non-conforming use of land or building which has become vacant or remains unoccupied owing to abandonment or discontinuance for a period of twelve (12) months shall thereafter conform to the provision of this Ordinance.
Sec. 17.04. - Change of tenancy or ownership.
There may be a change in tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing non-conforming use, provided there is no change in the nature or character of such non-conforming use.
Sec. 17.05. - Change of use.
A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another non-conforming use.
