ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 74-1. - Purpose and intent.
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority contained in the Constitution of the state as amended, for the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
(2)
To ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilitates and services to land developments;
(3)
To ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in land developments;
(4)
To ensure the provision of needed public open spaces in land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational and other public purposes;
(5)
To ensure wise and equitable handling of all development of land by providing uniform procedures and standards for observation and enforcement of regulations by developers and local public bodies as appropriate;
(6)
To hold the interests of the county residents as a whole above all other interests in pursuing the above purposes;
(7)
To encourage economically sound and orderly land development in accordance with the comprehensive plan of the county;
(8)
To protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Res. No. 2001-08, § 1(102), 3-13-2001)
Sec. 74-2. - Conflicting provisions.
Whenever the provisions of this chapter and those of some other resolution or statute apply to the same subject matter, that resolution requiring the highest, or more strict, standard shall govern except in cases where the public interest is clearly better served by one resolution or statute over another.
(Res. No. 2001-08, § 1(103), 3-13-2001)
Sec. 74-3. - Conditions on development; compliance.
(a)
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated by the state to the county. The developer has the duty of compliance with this chapter and any reasonable conditions laid down by the county planning commission for design, dedication, improvement, planning, etc., so as to conform to the physical and economic development of the county and to the safety and general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
(b)
The county planning commission may disapprove all or any part of a subdivision (preliminary plat and/or final plat) where safe and convenient access are not available, drainage is not adequate for the layout of roads and lots and the provision of services affecting the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county are jeopardized.
(Res. No. 2001-08, § 1(104), 3-13-2001)
Secs. 74-4—74-30. - Reserved.
