Chapter 54 - OFFENSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 30; traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following in the area of the county shall be guilty of disorderly conduct:
(1)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or health.
(2)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(3)
Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm.
(4)
Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or public property.
(5)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and cause, provoke or engage in any fight or brawl.
(6)
Any person who shall collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in unlawful activities.
(7)
Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others and engage or attempt to engage in gaming.
(8)
Any person who shall frequent any public place and obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, tricks, artifice or device, or attempt to do so.
(9)
Any person who shall appear in a public place under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicants, and whose condition shall be made manifest by loud, profane, vulgar or boisterous language.
(b)
Any person or persons failing to comply with the mandatory provisions of this section or doing any act prohibited by this section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction in the magistrate court of the county shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 92-11, §§ 1, 2, 9-8-1992)
