PART I - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1916 Ga. Laws, page 349 which created the board of commissioners of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Counties a body corporate and polic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III; home rule for counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; county a body corporate, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-3; organization of county government, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20 et seq.; matters over which governing authority has jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22.1; grants of state funds to counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-17-1 et seq.

Section 1. - Created.
The board of commissioners of Banks County is hereby created. Until January 1, 2010, the board shall consist of a chairperson and two other members who shall be qualified voters and bona fide residents of Banks County for a period of not less than six months preceding the date of their election. On and after January 1, 2010, the board shall consist of a chairperson and four other members who shall be qualified voters and bona fide residents of Banks County for a period of not less than six months preceding the date of their election.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2474; 1960 Ga. Laws, page 3035; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3297; Ga. Laws 2008, S.B. No. 558)
Section 2. - Residency.
(a)
Until January 1, 2010, the chairperson and other members of the board may reside anywhere in Banks County and shall be nominated and elected by the qualified voters of the entire county. For the purpose of electing the chairperson and other members of such board, there shall be three commissioner posts to be designated Commissioner Post 1, Commissioner Post 2, and Commissioner Post 3. The chairperson shall be elected from Commissioner Post 1 and all candidates for chairperson shall offer for Commissioner Post 1. Candidates for Commissioner Posts 2 and 3 shall designate the post for which they are offering. The chairperson and each member of the board of commissioners in office on the effective date of this Act shall serve until the expiration of his or her respective term of office and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(b)
(1)
On and after January 1, 2010, the chairperson may reside anywhere in Banks County and shall be nominated and elected by the qualified voters of the entire county. For the purpose of electing the remaining members of the board of commissioners, Banks County is divided into four commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4 shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: bankscc08p2 Plan Type: Local User: staff Administrator: Banks Co.
(2)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Banks County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Banks County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
On and after January 1, 2010, the commissioners holding Commissioner Post 2 and Commissioner Post 3 shall represent Commissioner District 1 and Commissioner District 3, respectively. Such commissioners shall serve out the terms to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified. Successors to such commissioners shall be elected by the electors of the entire county at the 2010 state-wide general election and shall take office on January 1, 2011, for a term of four years. Thereafter, successors shall be elected by the electors of the entire county at the November general election immediately preceding the end of their terms of office to take office on January 1 immediately following such election for four-year terms of office and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(4)
On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 2009, commissioners shall be elected from Commissioner Districts 2 and 4 by the electors of the entire county in special elections conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended. Those persons elected in such special elections shall take office on January 1, 2010, for a term of office to end on December 31, 2012, and until their successors are elected and qualified. At the 2012 state-wide November general election, successors to such commissioners shall be elected by the electors of the entire county and shall take office on January 1, 2013, for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be elected by the electors of the entire county at the November general election immediately preceding the end of their terms of office to take office on January 1 immediately following such election for four-year terms of office and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(5)
On and after January 1, 2010, the chairperson shall serve out the term to which he or she was elected and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. A successor to such chairperson shall be elected by the electors of the entire county at the 2012 state-wide general election and shall take office on January 1, 2013, for a term of four years. Thereafter, a successor shall be elected by the electors of the entire county at the November general election immediately preceding the end of the chairperson's term of office to take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a four-year term of office and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(6)
The chairperson may reside anywhere in Banks County. Except for the chairperson, each district commissioner shall be a resident of the geographic area encompassed by the respective commissioner district which he or she represents. Each commissioner shall be elected by a majority of the electors voting in the entire county. A candidate seeking election to the board of commissioners shall identify the seat to which such candidate seeks election at the time of qualifying for election to the office. If the chairperson ceases to be a resident of Banks County or if any district commissioner ceases to be a resident of the commissioner district from which such district commissioner was elected during his or her term of office, such person shall thereby vacate his or her seat on the commission. All members of the commission shall be nominated and elected pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the 'Georgia Election Code,' as now or hereafter amended."
(c)
At the general election in 1988, the other members of the board representing Commissioner Posts 2 and 3 shall be elected and shall serve for an initial term of office of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January following their election. Thereafter, the successors to such members shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office and shall serve for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 3035; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3297; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3999; Ga. Laws 2008, S.B. No. 558)
Section 3. - Compensation of county road foreman; housing of road equipment.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Banks County shall be authorized to employ and fix the compensation of a county road foreman. It shall be the duty of the county road foreman to maintain all equipment of the county and oversee the construction and maintenance of county roads and he shall have such other duties as the Board may prescribe.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall made provision for housing and maintaining all county road equipment at a location to be selected by said board which shall be as near as possible to the center of Banks County.
(1955 Ga. Laws, page 2474; 1960 Ga. Laws, page 3035; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3297)
Section 4. - Oath.
Before said commissioners shall enter upon the discharge of their duties, they shall, in addition to the oath prescribed for county officers, take and subscribe the following oath: "I, _______, do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform any and all duties required of me as a commissioner in and for the County of Banks; that I will make a just and true accounting of any and all moneys, properties and effects coming into my hands by virtue of my office; that I am duly qualified under the laws of this State to hold this office and I am not the holder of any public funds unaccounted for."
Section 5. - Bond.
Before the said commissioners shall enter upon their duties, they shall give a sufficient bond payable to the judge of the probate court of said county in the sum of one thousand dollars each, said bonds to be approved by the judge of the probate court of said county and recorded in the county officers' bond record book in the probate court's office.
Section 6. - Reserved.
(Ga. Laws, 2008, S.B. No. 558)
Section 7. - Records.
The board of commissioners of said county shall have the authority to hire a clerk for the board of commissioners and the duty of such clerk shall be to keep in a well-bound book a complete record of all the acts and doings of said board of commissioners, said records to be opened to inspection of any citizen of said county at all times, provided the same does not interfere with the meetings of the board. The board shall have the authority to establish and set the compensation to be paid such clerk and the board may further define, increase or decrease the duties of the clerk.
(1941 Ga. Laws, page 738; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 909; 1959 Ga. Laws, page 2566; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3017)
Section 8. - Compensation.
(a)
Effective January 1, 2009, the chairperson of the board of commissioners shall be compensated by an annual salary of $60,000.00.
(b)
Effective January 1, 2009, each other member of the board of commissioners shall be compenstaed by an annual salary of $15,000.00.
(c)
The salaries of the chairman and other members of the board of commissioners shall be paid in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(d)
The chairman and other members of the board shall receive no other or further compensation or expenses for their services as members of the board; but, upon a motion duly made and adopted by the board, the chairman or other members may be compensated for actual expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties or for any work performed for the county not in their capacity as chairman or as a member of the board, and the amount of such compensation shall be the same as the regular rate paid to county employees for such work.
(1920 Ga. Laws, page 440; 1941 Ga. Laws, page 738; 1945 Ga. Laws, page 909; 1955 Ga. Laws, page 2474; 1965 Ga. Laws, page 3058; 1966 Ga. Laws, page 3017; 1967 Ga. Laws, page 2543; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3297; 1971 Ga. Laws, page 4081; 1977 Ga. Laws, page 3901; 1985 Ga. Laws, page 4532; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 4166; 2007 Ga. Laws, H.B. # 473)
Section 9(a). - Purchasing of supplies and materials.
In addition to the other duties of the board of commissioners for Banks County, the board shall also establish a procedure for purchasing all county supplies, materials, equipment and other needs where the same exceeds $15.00 in cost. Such procedure shall provide that all departments requesting the purchase of necessary supplies and materials shall submit a purchase order to the purchasing agent for the county, who shall by competitive methods purchase such supplies and materials.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall act as purchasing agent for the county and, in addition to his other compensation, shall be compensated an additional one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars per year for expenses.
All county supplies, materials, equipment and other necessary items exceeding $15.00 in cost shall be required to be purchased in accordance with this section and through the use of the county purchasing agent.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 3017)
Section 9(b). - Alternate purchasing agent.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall be empowered to designate an alternate purchasing agent and such agent shall be empowered to exercise the same duties, powers and functions as the purchasing agent, when so directed by the chairman.
(1966 Ga. Laws, page 3017)
Section 10. - Meetings.
The structure at 150 Hudson Ridge, Homer, Georgia, 30547 is designated a Banks County Court House in said County or at the Court House Annex in said County on the second Tuesday in each month and may adjourn from day to day and may hold called sessions whenever in their opinion public necessity requires it.
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 2242; Resolution No. 2008-22, § 1, 8-26-2008)
Section 11. - [Duties.]
(a)
The chairperson shall preside at all meetings. It shall be the duty of the chairperson or vice chairperson to sign all orders and warrants for the payment of any money out of the county treasury, the same to be countersigned by the clerk or assistant clerk to the board of commissioners.
(b)
At the first meeting of each year, the board of commissioners shall elect one of their number to serve as vice chairperson. The vice chairperson shall preside in the absence of the chairperson or in case the chairperson is disqualified for cause. A majority of the board shall be a quorum to transact business.
(1965 Ga. Laws page 3058; Ga. Laws, S.B. No. 558; Resolution No. 2011-09, § 1, 7-12-2011)
Section 12. - Members not to contract for furnishing of supplies.
Said board shall not have the right to contract with any member of said board for any supplies nor with any one related to any member of said board for any work to be done, or for any supplies to be furnished said county.
Section 13. - Filling of vacancy.
In the event a vacancy occurs on the board for any reason whatsoever, other than the expiration of a member's term of office, such vacancy shall be filled as follows:
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs and the unexpired term shall be for one year or less, the remaining members of the board shall select a person who shall be a qualified voter and resident of the county to serve for the unexpired term.
(b)
In the event a vacancy occurs and the unexpired term shall be for more than one year, the judge of the probate court of Banks County, within ten days after said vacancy occurs, shall call a special election for the purpose of filling such vacancy. At such election, all of the qualified voters of Banks County shall be eligible to vote. Such election shall be held on a day not less than thirty nor more than forty-five days from the issuance of call. The ordinary shall conduct such election and the person so elected shall serve for the unexpired term.
(c)
The provisions of this section shall apply to the filling of any vacancies that may occur in the membership of the board of commissioners of Banks County holding office at the time this Act becomes effective. The provisions of this section shall also apply to the filling of vacancies that may occur in the chairmanship of said board.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 3035; 1970 Ga. Laws, page 3297)
Section 14. - Superintendent of roads; compensation.
Said board shall superintend the workings of the convicts of said county, and for such purpose they shall have the authority to hire a competent superintendent of roads whose duty shall be to see that all roads are properly laid out, and said superintendent shall have supervision of all the public roads in said county; provided, said superintendent is not paid more than four hundred dollars per annum for his services; that said board shall repair all bridges either with the convicts or with free labor when it can be done according to law.
Section 15. - Voter approval.
This Act shall not become effective in Banks County until it shall have been submitted to the qualified voters of said County of Banks and shall have received a majority of the votes cast in an election for the adoption or rejection of commissioners for said county, and to be submitted to the qualified voters of said county on the 12th day of September, 1916, and if adopted on said date three commissioners shall be elected at the regular election to be held on the 7th day of November, 1916, when the commissioners so elected shall hold their office for four years beginning with the first day of January, 1917. The successors to the first board of commissioners shall be elected at the regular election for county officers and under the same rules and regulations that other county officers are elected under the rules hereinbefore provided. The form of the ballot shall be "For county commissioners" or "Against county commissioners."
Section 16. - Conflicts.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
Approved August 19, 1916.
ARTICLE II. - INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AUTHORITY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1962 Ga. Laws, page 939 which created the Banks County Industrial Building Authority as an amendment to the state constitution. An act set forth in 1987 Ga. Laws, page 5277 provided that such amendment would continue in force and effect after July 1, 1987. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Authority created.
Article V, Section IX of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph which shall read as follows:
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Banks County to be known as the Banks County Industrial Building Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Banks County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "Authority";
B.
The Authority shall consist of five members. The Mayor of the City of Homer and the Chairman of the Banks County Board of Commissioners shall be ex-officio members of the Authority. In addition the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenue of Banks County shall appoint three members and shall be eligible for a term of five years and shall be eligible for re-appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the said board of county commissioners. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the Authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Banks County.
D.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Banks County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Banks County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, including all necessary and appurtenant land and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
E.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Banks County.
F.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority.
G.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope if its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended, O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Banks County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Banks County.
H.
The Authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the Authority shall have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Banks County.
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said county reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
J.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
K.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Banks County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Banks County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
N.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Banks County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
ARTICLE III. - BUSINESS LICENSES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1979 Ga. Laws, page 1843 which amended the state constitution to provide the board of commissioners with the right and power to assess and collect license fees and taxes from entities doing business in the county. An act set forth in 1986 Ga. Laws, page 5365 continued the amendment in force and effect after July 1, 1987, as part of the state constitution. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Power to collect license fees and taxes.
Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
The Board of Commissioners of Banks County shall have the right and power to assess and collect license fees and taxes from all persons, firms, and corporations maintaining a place or places of business in any area of Banks County, including any incorporated municipalities in said county; and the right and power to classify businesses and business enterprises, and to assess different fees and taxes against different classes of business, excepting from the application of these provisions only those businesses which are subject to regulation by the State Public Service Commission and those corporations organized under Title 34 B. The Board of Commissioners of Banks County shall also have the right and power to license all businesses and business enterprises (which are not subject to regulation by the State Public Service Commission) in any area of Banks County, including any incorporated municipalities in said county, in the interest of the welfare of the citizens of Banks County, and to prescribe rules and regulations concerning the same, and to provide that violation of any license regulation adopted by the Board of Commissioners of Banks County or the failure to pay any license fee or tax prescribed for any business shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction thereof as prescribed by the general laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE IV. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS
DIVISION 1. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR SENIOR CITIZENS OR THE DISABLED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1997 Ga. Laws, page 4091 which provided a homestead exemption for senior citizens or the disabled. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for or on behalf of Banks County, including, but not limited to, taxes to retire county bond indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40.
(3)
"Senior citizen" means a person who is 65 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this Act is made.
Section 2. - Grant of exemption; qualifications; filing of affidavit.
(a)
Each resident of Banks County who is a senior citizen or who is disabled is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Banks County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $20,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(b)
In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in subsection (a) of this section as being disabled, the person claiming such exemption shall be required to obtain a certificate from not more than three physicians licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43 of the O.C.G.A., relative to medical practitioners, as now or hereafter amended, certifying that in the opinion of such physician or physicians such person is mentally or physically incapacitated to the extent that such person is unable to be gainfully employed and that such incapacity is likely to be permanent.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (a) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of Banks County giving the person's age, or, if disabled, the certificate or certificates required by subsection (b) of this section, and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the applicant for the exemption.
(2000 Ga. Laws, page 4486; 2003 Ga. Laws, H.B. 853)
Editor's note— It should be noted that the exemption granted by H.B. 853 shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005.
Section 3. - Claim and return of exemption; renewal; eligibility.
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the applicant occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper affidavit as provided in subsection (b) of Section 2 of this Act, it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Act to notify the tax commissioner of Banks County or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption. Any person who, as of January 1, 1997, has applied for and is eligible for the $8,000.00 homestead exemption from Banks County ad valorem taxes for county purposes pursuant to a local constitutional amendment (1978 Ga. Laws, page 2438) shall be eligible for the exemption granted by this Act without further application if that person has applied for and been eligible for the immediately preceding year for such exemption.
Section 4. - Exceptions.
(a)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect any state taxes, municipal taxes, or county school district taxes for educational purposes.
(b)
The exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of any other homestead exemption from Banks County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
Section 5. - Term.
The exemption granted by this Act shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2001.
(2000 Ga. Laws, page 4486)
DIVISION 2. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FOR AGED[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1978 Ga. Laws, page 2438 which amended the state constitution to provide a homestead exemption for residents 65 years of age or older in the amount of $8,000.00. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Grant of exemption; administration; filing of affidavit.
Article VII, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
Each resident of Banks County who is 65 years of age or over is hereby granted an exemption from all Banks County ad valorem taxes, including taxes for education, in the amount of $8,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence. The value of the residence in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he, or through his agent, files an affidavit with the Tax Commissioner of Banks County, giving his age and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption, and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Provided, that after any such owner has filed the proper affidavit, as provided above, and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the tax commissioner in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The General Assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption, including penalties necessary therefor. The increased exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978.
ARTICLE V. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Act No. 44, H.B. 223, which created the board of elections and registration for the county. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - [Created.]
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b), there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of Banks County, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the superintendent of elections of Banks County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, which are currently being exercised by the judge of the Probate Court of Banks County, and the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Board of Registrars of Banks County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 1, 4-24-2013)
Section 2. - [Definitions.]
The terms "election," "elector," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as set forth in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act; the term "commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Banks County; and the term "county" means Banks County.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 2, 4-24-2013)
Section 3. - [Composition; terms.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of a chairperson and four members who shall be appointed as provided in this section.
(b)
The initial members of the board shall be the current members of the Board of Registrars of Banks County. Transition to the board shall be facilitated by the current chief registrar serving as initial chairperson of the board and the current clerk of the registrars serving as the interim supervisor of elections.
(c)
The initial chairperson of the board shall serve a term of four years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(d)
The current clerk of the registrars shall serve a term of two years on the board and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(e)
The third current member of the board of registrars shall serve a term of three years on the board and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(f)
Terms of office for the two new appointments to the initial board shall be designated with three-year and two-year terms thereby creating staggered terms for the board.
(g)
Every two years the board shall appoint or re-appoint one of its members to serve as chairperson for a two-year term.
(h)
After the terms of the initial members as set forth in this section, all terms of the board shall be four years.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 3, 4-24-2013)
Section 4. - [Eligibility.]
(a)
No person who holds elective public office or any member of his or her immediate family shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective office. The position of any member of the board shall be deemed vacant upon such member's, or a member of such member's immediate family, qualifying as a candidate for elective public office. Further, there shall be no members of the same immediate family serving on the board or on the staff of the board at the same time.
(b)
For the purpose of this section, immediate family members shall be defined as a spouse, mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, grandmother, grandfather, child, stepchild, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law.
(c)
Board members must be residents of Banks County and must have been registered to vote in Banks County for a period of at least two years prior to the date of appointment.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 4, 4-24-2013)
Section 5. - [Appointments.]
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Act regarding the initial board, appointments to the board shall be made by the chief judge of the Superior Court of Banks County. The board shall submit to the commissioners the names of a number of qualified electors, equal to twice the number of persons to be considered for appointment, no later than 30 days prior to the expiration of such members' term of office. The commissioners may add to or delete names from the list submitted by the board. If the commissioners add to the list of names for the appointment, the new names shall be certified as qualified electors by the board. If an individual is not a qualified elector, his or her name shall be removed from the list. Appointments from the names on the list by the chief judge are for four-year terms and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(b)
The chief judge of the Superior Court of Banks County shall certify each appointment to the clerk of the superior court no later than 15 days preceding the date upon which each member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act.
(c)
The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 5, 4-24-2013)
Section 6. - [Successive terms.]
Each member of the board shall have the right to serve successive terms and to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the board and to the clerk of the superior court and shall be subject to removal from the board by the chief judge of the Superior Court of Banks County at any time for cause, after notice and hearing.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 6, 4-24-2013)
Section 7. - [Vacancies.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any appointed member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the chief judge of the Superior Court of Banks County shall appoint a successor from the prior list of names submitted under Section 5 of this Act to serve the remainder of the unexpired term as provided for in Section 5 of this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of such interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members. If there are not at least two qualified electors on the list last submitted to the chief judge, the process of furnishing the names of qualified electors to the chief judge as set forth in Section 5 of this Act shall be followed, and a new set of names shall be furnished to the chief judge to fill the vacancy on the board.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 7, 4-24-2013)
Section 8. - [Oath.]
Before entering upon the member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 8, 4-24-2013)
Section 9. - [Management of affairs; directives governing the execution of matters.]
(a)
The board shall be authorized to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate for the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law. Decisions by the board shall be by a majority of the members of the board.
(b)
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold a minimum of quarterly meetings at times, dates, and places as determined by the board. Any specially called meeting shall be called by the chairperson or any two members of the board. The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be made available for the public to review.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 9, 4-24-2013)
Section 10. - [Authority to contract.]
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within the county for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within such municipality.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 10, 4-24-2013)
Section 11. - [Appointment of elections supervisor.]
(a)
The board shall be authorized to appoint an elections supervisor to generally supervise, direct, and facilitate the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The elections supervisor shall not be a member of the board or an election official. The elections supervisor shall be considered an employee and a department head of Banks County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of Banks County.
(b)
The board and the elections supervisor, subject to funding by the governing authority of the county, shall be authorized to employ such full-time and part-time employees as deemed necessary for the efficient conduct of elections, primaries, and registration of electors for the county. All such employees shall be considered to be employees of Banks County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of Banks County.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 11, 4-24-2013)
Section 12. - [Compensation.]
Compensation for the members of the board, elections supervisor, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be fixed by the governing authority of the county, provided that the members of the board shall receive compensation in at least the amount provided in O.C.G.A. § 21-2-212(d). Such compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 12, 4-24-2013)
Section 13. - [Supplies and materials.]
The governing authority of Banks County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 13, 4-24-2013)
Section 14. - [Training.]
The local election officials of Banks County shall attend the training as required by O.C.G.A. § 21-2-100, and the governing authority of Banks County shall pay the cost of such training.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 14, 4-24-2013)
Section 15. - [Submission for preclearance.]
The board of commissioners of Banks County shall through its legal counsel cause this Act to be submitted for preclearance under Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, and such submission shall be made to the United States Department of Justice or filed with the appropriate court no later than 45 days after the date on which this Act is approved by the Governor or otherwise becomes law without such approval.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 15, 4-24-2013)
Section 16. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective on the first day of the month following the month in which it is approved by the Governor or becomes law without such approval. Upon this Act becoming effective, the judge of the Probate Court of Banks County and the Board of Registrars of Banks County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver to the board all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities pertaining to such powers and duties. On such date, the Board of Registrars of Banks County shall be abolished, but the members of the board of registrars shall become the initial members of the board of Banks County as provided in this Act.
(Act No. 44 (H.B. 223), § 16, 4-24-2013)
