ARTICLE XIV. - SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS

Sec. 14-1. - General conditions.
A special exception is a use, which within certain districts specified by this ordinance is not permitted as a matter of right but may be permitted within these districts. The decision to grant or deny a special exception is a decision reserved solely to city council as any amendment to zoning.
Sec. 14-2. - Application procedure.
Section 14-2.1. General. Applications for special exception of this ordinance shall be in the form of proposals for special exception. Application for a special exception shall be submitted to the zoning administrator and shall include the appropriate fee. Any property for which a special exception is denied cannot be reconsidered, for a special exception, for at least six months after the date of the denial.
Section 14-2.2. Signature of applicant required. Applications shall be made by the owner of subject property, the authorized agent of the subject property, the planning commission, or the mayor and city council. All applications, other than those initiated by the planning commission or the mayor and city council, shall be signed by the applicant, and shall state his name and address. Any such applicant wishing to request a special exception must have at least 51 percent ownership of the subject property. If the applicant is not the owner, the applicant shall state his relation to the owner and affirm his authority to make application.
Section 14-2.3. Application for special exception. An application for a special exception shall include the information listed in subparagraphs (A) through (M) below. An incomplete application shall not be considered and shall be returned to the applicant for completion.
The application shall show:
A.
The area in which the lot proposed to be reclassified is located and the street number, if any, or if none, the location with respect to the nearby public streets in common use;
B.
A plat of the lot in question, or a description by metes and bounds, bearings, and distances of the lot, or if the boundaries conform to the lot boundaries within a subdivision for which the plat is recorded in the land records of the county, then the lot, block, and subdivision designations with appropriate plat reference;
C.
The present zoning classification and the special exception proposed for such lot;
D.
The type and size of structure(s) to be constructed and the specific use of the structure;
E.
The name and address of the owners of the land;
F.
The area of the land proposed to be included in the special exception stated in square feet if less than one acre, and in acres if one or more;
G.
The application number, date of application, and action taken on all prior applications filed for the special exception request of the whole part of the land proposed to be reclassified;
H.
Whether the special exception request will permit a use that is suitable in view of the use and development of adjacent and nearby property;
I.
Whether the special exception request will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property;
J.
Whether the property to the affected by the special exception request has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned;
K.
Whether the special exception request will result in a use which will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of existing streets, transportation facilities, utilities, or schools;
L.
If the local government has an adopted land use plan, whether the special exception request is in conformity with the policy and intent of the land use plan; and,
M.
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the special exception request.
Sec. 14-3. - Referral to planning commission.
After acceptance of any application for special exception, the zoning administrator shall transmit a copy to each member of the planning commission for their review and recommendation. Further, the zoning administrator will provide a copy of the application to each city council member and the mayor. The planning commission shall have a 60-day period subsequent to the receipt of the application by the zoning administrator within which to make its decision. Before taking action on a proposed special exception request, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing. At least 15 days prior to the hearing, notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation which shall state the time, date and place of the hearing, and shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property and the proposed special exception request for the property. The planning commission shall investigate and make a written recommendation with respect to the factors itemized in subsection 14-2.3. If the planning commission fails to submit the recommendation within such 60-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the requested special exception.
Sec. 14-4. - City council hearing procedure.
A.
Hearing called. Upon receiving the recommendation of the planning commission, and before taking action on proposed special exception, the city council shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 days, but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing, notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation which shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. The notice, in addition to the above requirements of this subsection, shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed special exception request of the property.
B.
Notice to interested parties. A notice of the date, time and place of hearing shall be sent by the zoning administrator via certified mail to the applicant and adjacent property owners. All application files shall be placed in the custody of the zoning administrator, and shall be open to the public for inspection during regular office hours.
C.
Policies and procedures. The public hearing shall be conducted by the city council. No one may speak until recognized by the presiding official, and then each speaker must state his name and address. Those who intend to speak shall sign up with the clerk prior to the meeting. The applicant shall speak first, and present the application and any evidence, opinions or witnesses. The opponents to the proposed change shall present their opposition, evidence, opinions and witnesses. The applicant may have an opportunity for rebuttal. A minimum time period of ten minutes per side for presentation of data, evidence and opinions for each zoning decision shall be provided. Additional time may be allowed by majority vote of the council, but an equal amount of additional time must be awarded to each side if any is awarded.
D.
Public notice of policies and procedures. The policies and procedures listed in subparagraph (C) above shall be available to the public as a printed handout at every public hearing.
Sec. 14-5. - Posting of property.
Erection of sign. Within 15 days prior to the public hearing held by both the planning commission and city council, a sign provided by the city shall be erected by the zoning administrator, which sign shall read as follows:
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC
ZONING/SPECIAL EXCEPTION/VARIANCE NOTICE
The following change for a zoning amendment/special exception/variance in the Town of Brooklet has been requested (date) by (applicant) (property address) (application request & acreage) (present zoning) (proposed amendment/special exception/variance). A public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission will be held at Brooklet City Hall, 202 East Lee Street [now 104 Church Street] at (time) on (date). A public hearing before the City Council will be held at the same location at (time) on (date). The public is invited. For more information, call the zoning office at (912) 489-1356 or the City Clerk at (912) 842-2137.
Sec. 14-6. - City council decision.
In taking action on an application, the city council may approve the application, approve the application with conditions, approve the application for less property than requested, table the decision on the application for a period not exceeding 45 days, or deny the application, whichever is in the public interest. The city council may allow the application to be withdrawn, if so requested by the applicant, in which case it may be resubmitted within six months. The grant or denial of a special exception is within the discretion of the city council. The city council should consider the following criteria in evaluating a special exception:
A.
Whether the proposed special exception will be injurious to the use and enjoyment of the environment or of other property in the immediate vicinity or diminish and impair property values within the surrounding neighborhood;
B.
Whether the proposed special exception will cause an undue burden on public services, facilities or infrastructure;
C.
Whether the establishment of the proposed special exception will impede the normal and orderly development of surrounding property for uses predominant in the area;
D.
Whether the location and character of the proposed special exception is considered to be consistent with Bulloch County's Comprehensive Land Use Plan; and,
E.
Whether the proposed special exception would be a threat to public health, safety, morality or welfare in the particular circumstances of the application.
Sec. 14-7. - Appeal.
The granting or denial of a special exception may be appealed by any aggrieved party, including members of the planning commission, by filing an appeal. The decision of the city council may be appealed to superior court by seeking a writ of mandamus within 30 days of the decision, otherwise it is final.
