ARTICLE VI. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN USES

Sec. 6-1. - Home occupations.
A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be governed by the following:
Section 6-1.1. Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation.
Section 6-1.2. The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the building.
Section 6-1.3. Only one sign not exceeding two square feet in size, motionless, non-lighted, and attached to the principal building, shall be permitted.
Section 6-1.4. The use for this purpose (including the size of any accessory building used for the home occupation) shall not exceed 25 percent of area of the principal building.
Section 6-1.5. No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential look of the building shall be permitted.
Section 6-1.6. The occupation shall not constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
Section 6-1.7. Use shall be limited to two students/clients/customers at a time.
Section 6-1.8. Vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles only shall be permitted in connection with the conduct of the customary home occupation.
Section 6-1.9. The following and similar uses shall be considered home occupations: addressing service, art instructor, beauty shop (with no more than one operator), drafting, dressmaking, insurance agent, manufacturing agent, music teacher, notary public, photography, real estate agent, tax consultant, tutor.
Section 6-1.10. There shall be no external display of products or storage of equipment or other externally visible evidence whatsoever of the occupation, business or profession.
Section 6-1.11. There shall be no emission of smoke, dust, odor, fumes, glare, noise, vibration, electrical or electronic disturbance.
Section 6-1.12. There shall be no chemical, mechanical or electrical equipment on the premises other than that normally found in a purely domestic residence.
Sec. 6-2. - Group development projects.
Any group of buildings devoted to the same use and intended to be operated under one management, such as a garden apartment project or medical office development, known herein as a group development project, may be permitted as a special exception by the planning commission, providing it shall meet the following requirements:
Section 6-2.1. Minimum lot size: The minimum lot size shall be 1.5 acres.
Section 6-2.2. Street access: Any building established as a part of a group development project which cannot properly be served by emergency or service vehicles from an abutting street shall be made accessible to such vehicles by a paved driveway having a roadbed width of not less than 20 feet, exclusive of parking spaces.
Section 6-2.3. Separation of buildings: All buildings established as a part of a group development project shall be not less than 20 feet apart.
Section 6-2.4. Setback requirements: All buildings and structures established as a part of a group development project shall comply with the front yard setbacks, and the exterior side and exterior rear yard requirements established for the district in which located.
Section 6-2.5. Uses prohibited: In no case shall a use be permitted as a part of a group development project that is prohibited by this ordinance in the district in which such project is to be located.
Sec. 6-3. - Manufactured home/building community.
Manufactured home community parks are allowed within an R-4 district as a matter of right.
A.
The minimum size shall be three acres; and,
B.
The park shall have minimum side yards of 20 feet and a front yard at least 60 feet; and,
C.
Each manufactured home shall be connected to water and sewage; and,
D.
The minimum lot area per manufactured home shall be no less than 10,000 square feet with a minimum lot width of 60 feet; and,
E.
The minimum distance between any two manufactured homes or between any manufactured home and any other building in the park shall be 40 feet; and,
F.
A 20-foot drive shall serve all manufactured home stalls and be drained so as to prevent damage to adjoining property, public or private; and,
G.
A recreation area shall be provided within the manufactured home park providing a minimum of one-half acre of land for the first one to ten manufactured home spaces and one-half acre for each one to ten additional manufactured home spaces; and,
H.
Any property line of a manufactured home park behind the front yard setback which abuts or is within a residential zoning district shall be screened as called for in section 3-15; and,
I.
Each manufactured home space shall have two parking spaces for vehicles. The surface of such parking spaces and any driveway shall be a smooth surface comprised of asphalt or concrete (at least 2,500 p.s.i.).
J.
Streets shall conform to current county road construction and maintenance specifications.
1.
Subgrade shall be compacted to 100 percent of the laboratory maximum dry density.
2.
Graded aggregate base should meet section 310 of the Georgia D.O.T. specifications and be no less than seven inches in depth. It shall be compacted to 100 percent of the maximum dry density.
3.
Asphalt mixtures must be an E-Mix or F-Mix and satisfy section 828 of the Georgia D.O.T. specifications.
4.
A job mix formula for hot mix asphalt should be submitted to the city at least two weeks prior to paving. All mixtures must contain hydrated lime or anti-strip additive. Minimum thickness shall be 1½ inches.
5.
Any pertinent laboratory testing, to verify the above items, shall be done for every 1,000 square yards of material placed.
Sec. 6-4. - Manufactured home/building.
A manufactured home is allowed in a manufactured home community, section 6-3, as a matter of right, and within an R-3 district as a special exception provided the following requirements are met:
A.
No more than one manufactured home shall be allowed per lot unless within a legally existing and permitted manufactured home community park, see section 6-3, and in no case shall a manufactured home be placed on a lot occupied by any other principal building.
B.
All manufactured homes must be connected to public water and sewage systems if available. The Bulloch County health department must approve sewage systems prior to permitting and placement of a manufactured home.
C.
All manufactured homes shall be provided with individual safe and convenient 20-foot vehicular access from an abutting public street to each mobile home lot. See section 7-8.24.
D.
A manufactured home shall meet the same requirements as a single-family dwelling when placed in an R-3 district as specified in section 5-2.
E.
A manufactured home to be placed in an R-3 district must have a minimum of 1,000 square feet of floor area exclusive of additions.
F.
Manufactured homes are to be occupied by only one family and when placed in R-3 districts owner must furnish written proof to the zoning administrator that permission has been granted by the property owner to place a mobile home on said lot.
G.
All manufactured homes in R-3 districts must be underpinned and closed in from the floor level to the ground on all sides with a permanent type metal, vinyl or masonry material.
Sec. 6-5. - Professional office building.
New or remodeled buildings for use as offices for medical, dental, legal, forestry, surveying, financial, architectural, engineering, real estate or insurance professions may be permitted as a special exception and allowed in R-2 and R-3 districts by the planning committee.
Section 6-5.1. Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided with one space for each 200 square feet of floor area plus one space for each employee.
Section 6-5.2. Setback requirements. All professional office buildings and structures shall comply with the front yard setbacks, and the exterior side and exterior rear yard requirements established for the district in which it is to be located.
Section 6-5.3. Point of business sign. Only one sign, not exceeding six square feet in size and motionless shall be permitted.
Sec. 6-6. - Subdivision developments.
See Addendum.
Editor's note— The subdivision regulations have been removed from the addendum and set as appendix A to this Code.
Sec. 6-7. - Standards for installation of pre-owned manufactured homes.
Section 6-7.1. Definitions. The following words, terms, or phrases, when used in this Ordinance, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
(a)
Applicant means any person seeking to install a pre-owned manufactured home in the city limits of the City of Brooklet.
(b)
Building Inspector means the person appointed, employed, or otherwise designated as the director of planning, permits and inspections; the municipal building official or any of his or her assistants.
(c)
Certificate of occupancy means a document issued by the building inspector certifying that a pre-owned manufactured home is in compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this Ordinance, and indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
(d)
Guarantee of Condition Bond means a surety bond to guarantee that the affidavit and photographs required by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Section 6-7.3 of this ordinance reasonably portray or represents the existing condition of the pre-owned manufactured home proposed for relocation. In lieu of the bond, a cash deposit may be deposited with the city.
(e)
Install means to construct a foundation system and to place or erect a manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such manufactured home.
(f)
Jurisdiction means the areas within the city limits of the City of Brooklet, Georgia.
(g)
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq.
(h)
Pre-owned manufactured home means any manufactured home that has been previously used as a residential dwelling and has been titled.
Section 6-7.2. Conditions. All pre-owned manufactured homes located in the jurisdiction shall bear a label certifying it was constructed in compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code) and shall be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
Section 6-7.3. Permitting, Inspection, Certificate of Occupancy and Fees. A permit shall be required to locate a pre-owned manufactured home in the jurisdiction.
(a)
Permit. To obtain a permit, Applicants shall provide to the building inspector:
(1)
An affidavit signed by the Applicant that the pre-owned manufactured home meets health and safety standards required by this Act;
(2)
Photographs of the interior and exterior of the pre-owned manufactured home providing evidence that home meets the minimum health and safety standards of Section 6-7.4 of this ordinance;
(3)
A $1,000.00 refundable guarantee of condition bond or $1,000.00 refundable cash deposit; and
(4)
The permit and inspection fee required by subsection (d) of this Section.
(b)
Inspection. Upon receipt of a permit, Applicants may relocate the manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. Applicant shall arrange for an inspection to be held once the installation of the manufactured home is complete.
(c)
Certificate of Occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued to the Applicant at such time that the building inspector certifies that the requirements of this ordinance have been met.
(d)
Fee. A permit and inspection fee listed in fee schedule shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost to the city to process the permit application and inspect the pre-owned manufactured home. Such fee shall cover the initial inspection and one follow-up inspection. The Applicant shall be charged a fee listed in fee schedule for each additional follow-up inspection that may be necessary.
(e)
Alternative Inspection. At the request of the Applicant, the building inspector may, at his or her discretion, inspect a pre-owned manufactured home prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within the city.
Section 6-7.4. Minimum Health and Safety Standards. All pre-owned manufactured home shall comply with the following before being issued a certificate of occupancy by the building inspector:
(a)
HUD Code. Every pre-owned manufactured home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S. c. 5401-5445 (the HUD Code) and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no longer meets the HUD Code.
(b)
Interior Condition. Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sound condition. Doors and windows shall be operable, watertight and in good working condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and free of warping, holes, water damage, or deterioration.
(c)
Exterior Condition. The exterior of all pre-owned manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
(d)
Sanitary Facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water, and waste pipe of a pre-owned manufactured home shall be in a sanitary working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checks upon being connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
(e)
Heating Systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. openings covered with solid covers approved and listed for that purpose. The home shall be subject to an electrical continuity test to assure that all metallic parts are properly bonded. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater in safe and working order.
(g)
Hot Water Supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and working condition.
(h)
Egress Windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress if necessary.
(i)
Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating window or other ventilation device.
(j)
Smoke Detectors. Each pre-owned manufactured home shall contain one operable battery-powered smoke detector in each bedroom and in the kitchen, which must be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
(k)
Two or more manufactured homes may not be joined together and utilized as a single residence.
(l)
The tongue, axels, transporting lights and towing apparatus shall be removed after placement on the lot and before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
(m)
No manufactured home shall be occupied prior to the installation inspection being done and approved.
Section 6-7.5. Enforcement.
(a)
Permanent connection to utilities shall not be approved until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(b)
Owners of pre-owned manufactured homes that are not in compliance upon a third inspection shall have their permit revoked and shall be required to remove the home from the jurisdiction at their own expense.
(c)
The guarantee of condition bond or cash deposit will be forfeited after 90 days from the date of inspection, unless all conditions and standards are met prior to the end of the 90 days or an extension has been issued in writing by the building inspector.
Section 6-7.6. Requirements Cumulative. The requirements set forth in this ordinance shall be cumulative of any other provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Brooklet. Without in any way limiting the generality of the foregoing, the requirements of this ordinance are in addition to and supplemental to the requirements set forth in Section 6-4 of Appendix B—Zoning of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Brooklet.
Section 6-7.7. Penalties. Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy shall be punishable by a fine up to $1,000.00. Each day any violation under this ordinance continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. of 10-21-2010(2), §§ 1—8)
