ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1-1. - Name and incorporation.
This city and the inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style Brooklet, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession. The City of Brooklet, in the County of Bulloch, is hereby incorporated.
Sec. 1-2. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of clerk of the city, or alternatively, in the office of the zoning administrator, and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map of the corporate limits/zoning classifications of the City of Brooklet, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries or changes in zoning classifications. All such modifications shall be noted on such map by the zoning administrator. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1-3. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Sec. 1-4. - Examples of powers.
The powers of the city shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Air and water pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(2)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at-large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
Building regulations. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. ยง 22-1-1 et seq.)] or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or outside the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary; to place for bid or otherwise privatize garbage, refuse, or trash collection as is deemed by the city as appropriate; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and parks in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property in fee simple or lesser interest within or outside the property limits of the city;
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city, and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage or garbage disposal, gas works, electrical plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties; and to provide for the withdrawal of service for (A) refusal and failure to pay the same or (B) violation of any ordinance;
(21)
Nuisance. To declare what shall constitute a nuisance within the limits of the City of Brooklet and to pass such ordinances as are necessary to prevent the same, and by ordinance to empower the municipal court of the city to abate same and authorize the removal of such nuisance within the city limits of the City of Brooklet and to punish the person, persons, firms, or corporations causing or allowing such nuisance to exist, and to provide for the assessment of the expense of the removal of such nuisance against such person, persons, firms, or corporations causing or continuing the same and to provide for the collection of such expense by execution, the execution to have the same force and effect as city tax executions;
(22)
Penalties. To provide comprehensive penalties for the violation of ordinances. Whenever any act within the city is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or up to the limits of any penalty provided by state law for the ordinance;
(23)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; to provide for the position of a zoning administrator; and to provide subdivision regulations and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to ensure a safe, healthy, and esthetically pleasing community;
(24)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for police and fire-fighting services;
(25)
Public hazards: removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(26)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the O.C.G.A. [(O.C.G.A. ยง 22-1-1 et seq.)], or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(27)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(28)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(29)
Public utilities and services. To privatize, grant franchises, or make contracts for public utilities and public services; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as they are not in conflict with valid regulations of the Georgia Public Service Commission;
(30)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(31)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(32)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish, or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(33)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending for a sewage disposal plant and sewage system and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(34)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials; and to provide for the sale of such items;
(35)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and flammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, adult entertainment facilities, and massage parlors;
(36)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(37)
Taxes: ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(38)
Taxes: other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law; and
(39)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this Charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases of granted powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(40)
Advertising and promotion of city. To advertise and promote the advantages of the city, and to encourage and promote tourism and positive exposure for the city, in such manner that shall be determined by the mayor and council of the city, including, but not limited to, the promotion and sponsorship of festivals and parades within the city, and to appropriate funds for such purposes.
(Ord. of 6-16-2011(1), ยง 1)
Sec. 1-5. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
