SECTION 6. - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN USES

6-1. - Home Occupation.
A home occupation as defined by this ordinance shall be approved by the zoning administrator and governed by the following requirements:
6-1.1
Home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the principal dwelling, unless the occupation requires off-site work, in which case only administrative functions may be conducted at the premises.
6-1.2.
Only residents of the dwelling may be engaged in the home occupation.
6-1.3.
The home occupation shall be clearly incidental to the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the essential residential character of the dwelling.
6-1.4.
Except as otherwise stated by this section, there shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation, including but not limited to, outside storage of materials or equipment, nor shall such items be displayed in a manner to be viewed from the outside of the dwelling.
6-1.5
No internal or external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of the building shall be permitted.
6-1.6
No machinery or equipment causing noise, smoke, odor, vibration, electrical interference, or other objectionable condition may be used, nor may the occupation otherwise constitute a nuisance in the neighborhood.
6-1.7
Instruction in music and similar subjects shall be limited to two students at a time.
6-1.8
No more than two vehicles used in conjunction with the home occupation shall be allowed provided.
6-1.9
Unless otherwise specified, there shall be no more than one client or customer on the premises at any one time.
6-1.10
Signs for home occupations shall be limited to one.
6-1.11
No variances shall be considered to the above criteria and any occupation that does not meet the above criteria shall be considered a Home Business, if it meets the Home Business restrictions.
6-2. - Home Business.
A home business as defined by this ordinance shall be approved by the zoning administrator and be governed by the following restrictions:
6-2.1.
Home businesses shall conform to the restrictions of the Home Occupation regulations sections 6-1.3, 6-1.5, and 6-1.8 as it pertains to the property.
6-2.2.
Accessory buildings used for home businesses shall be subject to all applicable accessory structure standards.
6-2.3.
At least one resident and not more than one non-resident of the dwelling may be engaged in the home business. The resident must be the owner of the home business.
6-3. - Planned Development.
A.
Master Plan. The developer of the proposed planned development shall file a master plan along with the planned development rezoning request with the planning commission. Being a rezoning, the process shall follow the same process for rezonings as prescribed by this ordinance except that planned development requests shall require an additional month for review prior to being heard by the planning commission. Prior to submission, however, planned development requests must have been reviewed by all departments including Fire, Engineering, Health, Utilities, Building Inspections, Planning, etc. Any application will be deemed incomplete if the applicant does not show where each of these agencies has reviewed the proposal. Said master plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
An attached statement describing why standard zoning districts are insufficient and how the proposed development conforms to those parameters and ideals set forth in Section 4-1 of this ordinance.
(2)
Name or names of the proposed development. Name or names and addresses of the owners and designers of the site of the master plan and his/her seal.
(3)
Date, appropriate north arrow and scale.
(4)
The boundary line of the tract to be developed drawn accurately to scale and with accurate lineal and angular dimensions.
(5)
A map to an appropriate scale showing the location of the development.
(6)
Contours with a minimum vertical interval of one foot referred to sea level datum shall be provided for both existing and proposed topography.
(7)
The location and extent of existing and proposed public rights-of-way, easements and water and drainage courses within the tract.
(8)
The location and type of existing buildings and structures proposed to be retained or removed and an indication of the use for each retained building.
(9)
The general location of proposed buildings and an indication of the use for each building.
(10)
Proposed lot layout in sketch form.
(11)
Dwelling unit density.
(12)
Minimum standards for interior lot development including setbacks, distances between buildings, etc.
(13)
The percentage of development maintained as public space (as defined by this ordinance) and impervious surface.
(14)
Public transportation facilities or provisions (if any).
(15)
Landscape and buffer plan. Nothing in this subsection shall be misconstrued as preventing the mayor/council from requiring more stringent design standards.
B.
Plan Amendments. Any increase in density or intensity of development or other major change shall constitute a plan amendment and shall require re-submittal of the master plan. Minor changes to the design of an approved planned development and net decreases in overall density or intensity may be submitted for administrative approval. Said changes will require review and approval by all necessary agencies.
(1)
Purpose and Intent. The planned development district is intended to allow flexible site planning and building arrangements for both single and multi-family residential developments, for business and commercial developments under a unified plan so that innovative land planning methods may be utilized which fosters natural resource conservation and neighborhood cohesiveness as well as neo-traditional developments. This may permit buildings to be clustered or arranged in an unconventional manner to maximize public space, create a pedestrian scale and incorporate other public benefits. In this district, smaller lots than would otherwise be permitted under traditional zoning districts may be allowed; however, the purpose is not merely to allow smaller lots or reduce development requirements but to achieve other goals including the protection of sensitive environmental, historic, or aesthetic resources as well as the provision of site amenities such as parks, public space, walking trails, etc. The planned development district is not intended to encourage greater density of development, but rather to encourage ingenuity and resourcefulness in land planning techniques which result in quality residential patterns that conserve and create public space, reduce vehicle trips and provide stable developments that enhance the surrounding area.
(2)
Allowed Uses. All dwelling types, commercial and office uses shall be allowed in the planned development district including manufactured homes. Any use requiring a special exception within any zoning district shall be processed as a special exception. The planned development district shall allow all types of uses except those allowed only within the A-C, I-1, and I-2 districts.
(3)
Development Standards. A planned development shall conform to the following restrictions and development standards.
EXPAND
Maximum Impervious Surface 70%
Minimum Public Space 30%
Minimum Exterior Setbacks* 30' from all property lines, including the rights-of-way.
Minimum Screening Along Exterior Tract Boundaries See Section 3-18 of this ordinance.
  * There is no minimum setback for interior lot lines, except as otherwise indicated within the approved master plan.
6-4. - Family Day Care Homes and Group Day Care Homes.
Shall conform to the following regulations:
EXPAND
Number of Children 1-6 7-12 13-18
Site Plan No additional requirements Conceptual Site Plan required at time of application. Conceptual site plan required at time of application.
Parking Requirements No additional requirements One space for each employee plus one space for every four children kept. One space for each employee plus one space for every four children kept.
Parking and Driveway Adequate ingress and egress from the street required. A circular drive is required unless extenuating circumstances exist, in which case an alternative proposal will be considered provided it meets the intent of the requirement and ensures equal or greater safety for pick-up and drop-off as well as ingress and egress and is approved by the City Engineer prior to submittal of applications. A circular drive is required unless extenuating circumstances exist, in which case an alternative proposal will be considered provided it meets the intent of the requirement and ensures equal or greater safety for pick-up and drop-off as well as ingress and egress and is approved by the City Engineer prior to submittal of applications.
Roadway Frontage No additional requirements No additional requirements Property must be located on or adjacent to an urban minor or principal arterial or urban collector as designated by the City of Millen's Major Thoroughfare Plan.
Pick-up and Drop-off Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way. Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way. Pick-up and drop-off shall be conducted on the property and not in the public right-of-way.
  6-5. - Manufactured and Mobile Homes.
(1)
No mobile homes, defined as units constructed prior to June 15, 1976 shall be allowed within the City limits of Millen. Only manufactured homes constructed to the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards governed by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5401, et seq. shall be permitted to be installed or relocated within the City of Millen.
(2)
All new manufactured homes shall be installed as required by O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-160 and 8-2-164. For the purposes of administration of this section, installation shall mean the construction of a foundation system and the placement or erection of a manufactured home on the foundation system. This also includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing or anchoring such home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such home. Said installation shall be performed by a person who is able to obtain a license pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-164.
(3)
Manufactured homes may only be used as a dwelling unit.
(4)
A curtain wall, also known as skirting or underpinning, shall be constructed of masonry or approved material and shall be un-pierced, except for required minimum ventilation and access so that the area under the home is enclosed to the ground level. Said access shall remain closed when not being used for that purpose.
(5)
After placement on the lot and before occupancy, all tongues, axles, transporting lights and other towing apparatus are to be removed from sight.
(6)
Utility meters shall be mounted directly to the manufactured home, to a pedestal, or to a pole as required by the building and electrical codes as adopted by the City of Millen.
(7)
At all exterior doors there shall be a landing as required by the building codes as adopted by the City of Millen. Said landing shall be constructed in a manner as to be permanently affixed to the ground.
(8)
All manufactured homes must meet the minimum size requirements for the district in which they are to be located.
6-6. - Manufactured Home Parks.
Manufactured home parks are allowed in the RMH district as a matter of right provided the following requirements are met:
(1)
The minimum size shall be three acres.
(2)
The park shall have minimum side yards of 20 feet and a front yard at least 20 feet greater than that required for other uses permitted in the district.
(3)
Each manufactured home shall be connected to a proper water and sewer system as required by the City of Millen or the Jenkins County Health Department. The manufactured home park plan shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the Jenkins County Health Department.
(4)
The minimum lot area per manufactured home shall not be less than 4,000 square feet with a minimum width of 40 feet where served by public water and sewer or public health department approved community water and sewer. The lot shall be not less than 7,500 square feet of lot area per manufactured home where served by septic tanks or private wells.
(5)
The minimum distance between any two manufactured homes or between any manufactured home and any other building in the park shall be 20 feet.
(6)
A 20 foot wide interior street paved and properly drained shall serve all manufactured home lots and be drained so as to prevent damage to adjoining property, public and private.
(7)
Each manufactured home lot shall be clearly defined by means of concrete, steel or iron pipe markers placed at all corners.
(8)
At least 200 square feet per manufactured home lot not to be a part of required manufactured home lot, shall be provided in one or more locations for community playgrounds and recreation purposes.
(9)
Any property line of a manufactured home park which abuts or is within a residential zoning district shall be screened as described in this Ordinance.
(10)
No manufactured home park shall be occupied by a greater number of manufactured homes than that authorized in the approved building and inspection permit. No manufactured home park shall be enlarged or extended unless a separate building permit and a separate final inspection permit have been issued.
(11)
Access to the park shall be limited to paved streets with at least 50 feet of right-of-way.
(12)
No building permit may be issued unless the park layout has been reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator.
(13)
Site must directly abut a major thoroughfare roadway as designated on the Official Road Classification Map for the City of Millen.
6-7. - Cemeteries.
(1)
Cemeteries are permissible in the B-2 zoning district, and by SE in P-1 and B-3 zoning districts, subject to the site design standards of the district and the specific supplemental standards in this section. Cemeteries for internment of human remains shall comply with State law and the provisions of this section. Cemeteries for internment of pet remains shall comply with the provisions of this section. All cemeteries must have a perpetual care and maintenance plan as described in O.C.G.A. § 10-14-3(6).
(2)
A cemetery may include one or more of the following: a burial park for earth interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt internments, and a columbarium.
(3)
A cemetery may include a chapel when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
(4)
Site design requirements are as follows:
Standards for Cemeteries
EXPAND
Development Feature Standard
Minimum land area
Registered cemeteries (per State law) 10 acres
Other (private) 2 acres
Minimum setbacks for structures, storage, materials, equipment or internment lots:
Front yard 40 feet
Side yard 20 feet
Rear yard 20 feet
Adjacent to a residentially zoned property 50 feet
Lot dimensions
Minimum road frontage 200 feet
Minimum buffer requirements
Adjacent to state bodies of water 25 feet
Access for existing cemeteries Easements for access may be required in new subdivision
  (5)
Location requirements.
a.
A cemetery shall not be located in a wetlands, 100-year floodplain, floodway, or flood hazard area.
b.
All new cemeteries must be located not less than 150 feet from a drinking water well.
(6)
Adequate off-street waiting space shall be provided for funeral processions so that no vehicle stands or waits in a dedicated right-of-way.
(7)
All cemetery access shall be provided from an arterial street, collector street, or state highway. The entrance and exits to the cemetery shall be only from the frontage street.
(8)
Mausoleums and columbaria may be located only within the boundaries of approved cemeteries. Mausoleums and columbaria shall have facades of brick or stone.
