Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of the City of Millen, Georgia," and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as the "Millen City Code" or the "City Code."
(Code 1992, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code and all ordinances, the following rules and definitions shall be observed, unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
(1)
In general, all words, terms and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. Unless otherwise stated herein:
City. The terms "city," "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Millen" followed them.
City council, council. The term "city council" or "the council" means the city council of the City of Millen, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Millen, Georgia.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day or the last; except that if the last day shall fall on a Sunday or a legal holiday, another day shall be added to the computation.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Jenkins County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the municipal court of the city.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender—singular and plural. Every word in any ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the mayor and city council of the City of Millen, Georgia.
Jail. The term "jail" means the detention facility or correctional institution with whom the city council has contracted for the housing of persons detained or incarcerated by the city.
Joint authority. All words giving joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving this authority to a majority of these persons or officers, or to a quorum.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the municipal court of the City of Millen, Georgia.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Land. The terms "land" and "real estate" include rights and easements of the incorporated nature.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Millen, Georgia.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Name or title of officer, board, commission or agency. The name or title of any officer, board, commission or agency, when appearing alone herein, shall be construed as if the words "of Millen, Georgia" followed it.
Number. The singular or plural each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The term "oath" includes affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken by a person having conscientious scruples against taking the oath. An affirmation shall have the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the latest edition of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," if the sense requires it.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner. The term "owner" applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream, unless the context indicates otherwise.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance shall require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with such notice.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The terms "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. Whenever the term "street" is used in this Code, it shall be construed to include a public highway, road, avenue, court, way, lane or alley; and it shall also be construed to include a sidewalk or footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless this construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense includes the future when applicable.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days; but publication in a newspaper of any notice or other matter indicated to be for a stated number of weeks shall be construed to mean one insertion in each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of the week or for more than one day in each week; and all publications heretofore made in accordance with the terms of this definition are hereby validated.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(2)
The rules of construction set forth herein shall not be applied to any ordinance which shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject matter or context of such ordinance may be repugnant thereto.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 13-3(5).
Sec. 1-3. - Ordinance to take effect; when.
All ordinances passed by the city council, except when otherwise specifically provided, shall take effect and be in force from and after their publication.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, this unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, the intention being that they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Catchlines of sections.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of these sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance, by statute adopted by reference in this Code, by state rule or regulation adopted by reference in this Code or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Unless a higher penalty is otherwise specified, whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city, any act that is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of that provision of this Code or that ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the jail for not more than 180 days, or any one or all of these punishments subject to all limitations contained in the charter of the city. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of the other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's charter or this Code.
(e)
Violations of this Code may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
(f)
There shall be imposed by the Municipal Court of the City of Millen, Georgia, a technology surcharge in the amount of $25.00 per offense for all offenses against the Ordinances of the City of Millen, Georgia or the State of Georgia. The technology surcharge shall be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the Municipal Court. The revenue derived from the technology surcharge shall be used by the city solely to provide technical support for public safety and municipal court functions.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-6; Ord. of 4-5-2009, § 2; Ord. of 4-4-2017(2), § 2; Ord. of 6-5-2018(1), § 2)
Sec. 1-7. - Judgments and sentences to run consecutively.
All judgments and sentences imposed and ordered by the municipal court of the city shall run consecutively unless otherwise specifically provided by the judge of municipal court in these judgments and sentences.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Effect of repeal of ordinances or Code sections.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. Repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of these subsequent ordinances until such time that the Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending these provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of the City of Millen, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Millen, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____ which section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All section, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1992, § 1-1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Interpretation of Code.
In all interpretations of this Code, and ordinances, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
State Law reference— Similar provisions as to state laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-12. - Substantive compliance with Code.
A substantial compliance with any requirement of the Code, or ordinances, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient, and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided by the enactment.
Sec. 1-13. - Prior offenses, penalties and rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city repealed in this chapter, and all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing and not a new enactment of the same ordinance. This chapter shall not be deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the liability of any person or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or section thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Rates, charges, and fees established.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for, all rates, charges, or fees necessary for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this Code shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by motion, resolution or ordinance of the city council, from time to time. Any rates, charges, or fees established by the city pursuant to the regulations or requirements established herein may be changed from time to time by the city council, and such changes shall both be considered an amendment to this Code.
(b)
Whenever any provision of this Code provides that a rate, charge, or fee shall be established by the city council, from time to time, and the amount of such rate, charge, or fee is not expressed in this Code in any dollar amount, then the amount of such rate, charge, or fee shall be the most recent and latest amount established, set or fixed by the city council by ordinance, resolution or motion.
Sec. 1-15. - Certain ordinances not repealed or affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and/or prescribing employment, benefits, and/or personnel policies and procedures;
(6)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city;
(15)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superseded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
