ARTICLE 3. - ELECTION AND REMOVAL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.

CHAPTER 1. - CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS

Section 3-101. - Application of general laws.
All municipal general or special elections and primaries shall be held and conducted in accordance with [state law].
Section 3-102. - Election by majority.
The candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Section 3-103. - Vacancies; special elections; appointments.
modified
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vacancy in the office of the mayor or any council member created by death, resignation or for any other cause other than the regular expiration of a term of office, shall be filled by special election. There shall be a "Call" for such special election within fifteen (15) days after such vacancy occurs. The special election shall then be held not less than thirty (30) days and not more than 60 days after such "Call" and, in such event, the mayor or council member, as the case may be, after taking oath, shall take office immediately.
(b)
If, however, any such vacancy in the council should occur within one (1) year of the regular expiration of the term of office, such vacancy shall be filled by appointment of a duly qualified person by the mayor and remaining members of the council.
(c)
If any such vacancy in the office of mayor should occur within one (1) year of the regular expiration of the term of office, such vacancy shall be filled by the mayor pro tem for the remainder of the term of office, and the vacancy in the council shall be filled by appointment of a duly qualified person by the new mayor and remaining members of the council.
Section 3-104. - Removal from office; suspension.
(a)
The mayor, council members, or other appointed officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office and the office shall be vacant upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following causes or as set out by state law:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished as provided by applicable state statute, or by one of the following methods:
(1)
By the affirmative vote of not less than four (4) council members after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten (10) days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Jenkins County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from probate court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Jenkins County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Millen.
Section 3-105. - Transitional Elections and terms.
(a)
Pursuant to the provisions of [state law], and for the purpose of providing for the orderly transition of municipal elections in the city so as to ultimately conform with the provisions of the [state law], elections for seats held by the mayor and council holding office as of the effective date of this Charter shall be as follows:
(1)
The election for the council seats expiring in 1989, shall be held on the first Thursday in January 1989, and the terms of the two council members so elected shall expire on December, 1993.
(2)
The election for mayor and the remaining council seats shall be held on the first Thursday in January, 1990, and the terms of the Mayor and council so elected shall expire on December 31, 1995.
(b)
The dates of all subsequent general municipal elections and all terms of office shall conform to the provisions of [state law].
Section 3-106. - Establishment of Election Districts.
(a)
In order to reapportion the election districts of the City of Millen to comply with the one person-one vote requirements of the United States Constitution, and in keeping with the population demographics revealed by the United States decennial census of 2022; and, further, pursuant to the provisions of Georgia law, the City of Millen is divided into three election districts for the purpose of the election of members of the City Council. Two members of the Council shall be elected from Districts 001 and 002 and one member of the Council shall be elected from District 003. The districts shall be and correspond to those three numbered districts described in that document attached to and made a part of this ordinance and further identified as Plan Name: MillenCity-Draft-2022 and Plan Type: Local, which map is attached to the revised 2022 Population Summary.
(Ord. of 8-2-2011, § 1; Ord. of 5-3-2022, § 1)
Editor's note— The descriptions of the council districts contained in the attachment referred to as "Plan Name: Millen Plan 2 Plan Type: Local Date: May 17, 2011," in the Ordinance adopted August 2, 2011, are available for public examination in the city clerk's office and were not included in this printing of the charter at the discretion of the editor.
