ARTICLE 4. - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1. - CITY MANAGER

Section 4-101. - Appointment and qualifications.
There shall be a city manager hired by the mayor and council by motion or resolution, pursuant to such contract or agreement as may be adopted and made a part of such motion or resolution. The city manager shall be selected on the basis of executive, administrative, and managerial ability and qualifications.
Section 4-102. - Duties and responsibilities.
(a)
The city manager shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall be in charge of and responsible for the administrative branch of the city government.
(b)
The city manager shall exercise supervision and control over all departments and agencies of the city unless otherwise provided by general statute or this charter.
(c)
The city manager shall be a full-time employee of the city and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of the affairs of the city. In this capacity, the city manager shall have the authority and responsibility to:
(1)
Ensure that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
(2)
Appoint, suspend or terminate all city employees and department heads who shall be directly responsible to him unless otherwise provided by general state law or this charter; provided that such actions may be superseded by affirmative action of the mayor and council within thirty (30) days;
(3)
Negotiate, authorize, and execute all lawful city contracts as is provided by state law, this charter or ordinance;
(4)
Keep the mayor and council fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city and have prepared and presented each month a summary of the city's financial condition;
(5)
Recommend to the mayor and council the adoption of such measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient in the administration or management of city affairs; and
(6)
Keep, or cause the same to be done, all official records of the city, including, but not limited to, minutes of the meetings of the mayor and council and Code of Ordinances. He or she shall be the keeper of the City Seal and shall perform such other duties as may be provided by this charter or by ordinance.
(d)
The city manager, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall give bond in the penal sum to be fixed and approved by the mayor and council. The premium shall be paid by the city and the bond shall be made payable to the City of Millen, and its successors, for the benefit of the city, and for the use and benefit of the public, to secure and indemnify the city and any of the public, by reason of the city manager's default, misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in the performance of his or her duties.
CHAPTER 2. - CITY ATTORNEY

Section 4-201. - Appointment and qualifications.
There shall be a city attorney who shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year or at the pleasure of the mayor and council. He or she shall be an active member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing.
Section 4-202. - Duties and responsibilities.
The city attorney shall be legal counsel to the city and perform any other duties as may be provided by ordinance.
Section 4-203. - Compensation.
The compensation of the city attorney shall be by contract, agreement or resolution of the mayor and council.
CHAPTER 3. - CITY ORGANIZATION

Section 4-301. - City departments and agencies.
The departments and agencies of the city shall be created and established by ordinance, and the departments shall be responsible for the performance of the functions and services enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations of the city manager and approved by the mayor and council consistent therewith. The operations and responsibilities of these departments and agencies may be distributed among any divisions, or bureaus, and shall consist of any officers and employees as may be provided by ordinance or administrative regulations consistent therewith.
Section 4-302. - Administrative reorganization.
The mayor and council may, by ordinance, organize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue any departments, agencies, or divisions of the city government as it may from time to time deem desirable, consistent with this charter.
CHAPTER 4. - PERSONNEL

Section 4-401. - Personnel system.
(a)
Upon recommendation of the city manager, the mayor and council shall establish, by ordinance, a personnel system for part of or all city employees and officials as it deems necessary consistent with this charter.
(b)
The personnel system shall provide for classification of positions, the manner and method of publicizing vacancies, employing and appointing personnel, the qualifications of employees, employee evaluations and performance, salaries, hours of employment, vacations, sick leave, special workmen's compensation leave, job security, promotion, demotion, disciplinary procedures, transfer, layoff, removal, welfare of employees, retirement policy, payment of premiums for employee insurance benefits, grievance procedures, service awards, training leave and any other measures that promote the hiring and retaining of capable, diligent and honest career employees.
CHAPTER 5. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Section 4-501. - Authority to create.
The mayor and council may, by ordinance, unless otherwise provided by general state law, create commissions and boards which may perform the duties prescribed, including, but not limited to, making studies, conducting research and investigations, holding hearings and preparing recommendations as to needed ordinances and resolutions and for any other purposes authorized.
Section 4-502. - Composition; appointment; removal; bylaws.
(a)
The mayor and council may provide by ordinance, unless otherwise provided by general state law, for the manner of appointment make-up and composition of commissions and boards, their periods of existence, and for the compensation of their members and employees, in whole or in part. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for reimbursement of the actual and necessary expenses incurred by the members of boards and commissions in the performance of their official duties. The mayor and council shall have the authority to annually appropriate money derived from taxation, contributions, or otherwise for and to these commissions and boards to provide for their operation, either in whole or in part.
(b)
Any vacancy in the office of any member of a board or commission shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed for original appointment.
(c)
Any member of a board or commission may be removed from office for cause by a majority vote of all the council members.
(d)
Each board and commission may establish bylaws, rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances, or applicable state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for its internal organization, election of officers, and for the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the city manager and approved by the mayor and council prior to their being effective.
CHAPTER 6. - REGULATION OF CONDUCT

Section 4-601. - Declaration of policy.
Elected and appointed officers and employees shall demonstrate by their example the highest standards of ethical conduct, to the end that the public may justifiably have trust and confidence in the integrity of government. They, as agents of public purpose, shall hold their offices or positions for the benefit of the public, shall recognize that the public interest is of primary concern, and shall faithfully discharge the duties of their offices regardless of personal considerations.
Section 4-602. - Conflict of interest.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly:
(a)
Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct of indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties or which would tend to impair independence of judgment or action in the performance of official duties;
(b)
Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private interests when the employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties or would tend to impair the independence of judgment or action in the performance of official duties;
(c)
Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which he or she is engaged or is a member of without proper legal authorization, or use that information to advance the financial or other private interest of that person or others;
(d)
Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm or corporation which to the person's knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever, in business dealings with the governmental body he or she is a member of or by which he or she is engaged; provided, however, an elected official who is a candidate for public office may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with any campaign;
(e)
Represent private interests, other than his or her own, in any action or proceeding against the city or any portion of its government;
(f)
Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or the making of any contract with any business or entity in which he or she has substantial financial interest unless such contract is issued pursuant to sealed competitive bids.
Section 4-603. - Disclosure of interest.
Any elected or appointed officer or employee who possesses or who acquires any financial interest as might reasonably tend to create a conflict with the public interest shall make disclosure in writing to the mayor and council at the time a conflict becomes apparent. The disclosure statement shall be made a matter of public record and filed with the city manager. The disclosure shall be made a matter of public record prior to the taking of any vote on the proposal.
Section 4-604. - Fair and equal treatment.
No elected or appointed officer or employee shall use that official position to secure or grant special consideration, treatment, advantage, privilege or exemption to any person beyond that which is available to every other person.
Section 4-605. - Future employment.
No person who has served as an elected or appointed officer or employee of the city shall, within a period of six (6) months after termination of that service or employment, appear for compensation before any agency of the city, or receive compensation for any services rendered in behalf of any private interests in relation to any case, proceeding or application with respect to which the person was directly concerned, or which was under the person's active consideration, or with respect to which knowledge or information was made available to the person during the period of service of employment.
Section 4-606. - Use of public property.
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this charter applies shall use property owned by the city for personal benefit, convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies promulgated by the mayor and council or the governing body of the agency or entity.
Section 4-607. - Contracts voidable and rescindable.
Any violation of this charter or state law which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of another party to a contract or sale shall render the contract or sale involved voidable and rescindable as to that party, at the option of the mayor and council expressed by a motion adopted to that effect.
Section 4-608. - Ineligibility of elected officials.
Except where authorized by law, neither mayor nor any other council member shall hold any other elective or compensated appointive office in the city or otherwise be employed by the city or any agency thereof during the term for which he or she was elected. No former mayor and no other former council member shall hold employment or compensated appointive office in the city until six (6) months after the expiration of the term for which the official was elected.
Section 4-609. - Political activities of certain officers and employees.
No appointive officer or employee of the city shall continue in that employment or service upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any elective office within the City of Millen or Jenkins County.
Section 4-610. - Participation in elections.
No appointed officer or employee of the city shall in any manner contribute to any candidate for election to a municipal office of the city or participate in any election, primary or political contests for a municipal office of the city other than by exercising the right to vote, privately expressing political views, or by serving as election officials.
Section 4-611. - Penalties for violation.
(a)
Any city officer or employee who knowingly violates any lawful requirement of this charter shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall be punished as provided in Section 6-103, infra.
(b)
Any officer or employee of the city who violates (a) above, shall be ineligible for appointment or election to or employment in a position in the city government for a period of at least three (3) years thereafter.
(c)
The appointing authority may reprimand, put on probation, demote, suspend or discharge an employee or appointed officer found to have violated the standards of conduct established by this chapter.
