ARTICLE II. - NOISE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Noise from swimming pool, § 22-358.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 50-26—50-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT FOR LOUDSPEAKER

Sec. 50-51. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the corporate limits a loudspeaker, public address system, jukebox or similar device for the amplification of sound in such a manner as to transmit or broadcast such sound beyond the boundaries of the premises occupied by such person without first obtaining a permit for the use or operation thereof from the chief of police.
(Code 1983, § 15-28)
Sec. 50-52. - Unlawful operation of devices.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a device described in section 50-51 without first obtaining the permit required from the chief of police or, after obtaining such permit, to operate such device in a manner as to create a disturbance.
(Code 1983, § 15-31)
Sec. 50-53. - Submission of application; fee.
An application for a permit required under this division shall be made in writing, accompanied by a permit fee as set by the mayor and council from time to time, to the chief of police. In the application shall be shown the name of the person to whom the permit is to be issued, the type of device to be operated by the applicant, the location at which the device shall be operated and the person who shall be in charge of and responsible for the use and operation of such device.
(Code 1983, § 15-29)
Sec. 50-54. - Action upon application.
The chief of police may approve or reject an application for a permit required under section 50-51, in his discretion, or he may refer the application to the mayor and council for the approval or rejection of the permit by the mayor and council, with his recommendation thereon. If the chief of police rejects the application, the applicant shall have the right to bring the application before the mayor and council for their approval or rejection. If the application is approved by the chief of police and/or the mayor and council, a certificate or permit shall be issued by the chief of police to such applicant. The permit shall be revocable at the discretion of the mayor and council if it should be made to appear to the satisfaction of the mayor and council that the use or operation of such device is such as to cause a disturbance to people in the vicinity of the premises of the user or operator of such device.
(Code 1983, § 15-30)
Secs. 50-55—50-80. - Reserved.
