Chapter 74 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 38; law enforcement, ch. 66; traffic and vehicles, ch. 114.
State Constitution reference— Limitations on special legislation, Ga. Const. art. III, § VI, ¶ IV.
State Law reference— Crimes and offenses, O.C.G.A. tit. 16; ordinances prohibiting loitering for prostitution, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-24; criminal trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21; maintaining a disorderly house, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-44; peeping Toms, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-61; abandonment of containers, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-100; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; gambling, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-20 et seq.; adoption of municipal ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 74-1—74-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FRAUDULENT PRACTICES

Sec. 74-26. - Fraudulent attempt to obtain refund.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give a false or fictitious name or address as his own or to give the name or address of any other person without that person's knowledge and approval for the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain a refund:
(1)
For merchandise returned to a business establishment; or
(2)
On a ticket or other document which is evidence of a service purchased from a business establishment, which service is yet to be performed.
(Code 1983, § 15-33)
Secs. 74-27—74-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DAMAGE TO AND INTRUSION UPON PROPERTY

Sec. 74-56. - Malicious mischief generally.
No person shall maliciously injure, deface, break, destroy or molest any public or private property in parks or at any other location in the city.
(Code 1983, § 15-6)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass and other criminal damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21 et seq.
Sec. 74-57. - Destruction or defacement of property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully damage, destroy, mar, or deface any property of the city or of another located in the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper with, to open, or to paint any equipment of the city, including fire hydrants and water mains.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to write, paint, or draw upon; to carve any letter, word, or design upon; or to mutilate or deface in any way any wall, fence, public building, private building or dwelling, place or institution of learning, place of worship, statue or monument erected within the city.
(d)
Any person who violates this section shall be issued a citation by those so authorized to enforce this section. Jurisdiction over such matters shall be through the municipal court and, upon conviction, the punishment is as follows:
(1)
By fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00.
(2)
In the sound discretion of the court, the violator may be directed to clean or otherwise repair any marred or defaced property.
(3)
In addition to the fines set out herein, the court may direct the violator to reimburse the city or the owner of the defaced or damaged property, as the case may be, for the reasonable cost of removing the defacement or repairing the damage to the property; provided, however, the amount of reimbursement shall not exceed $500.00.
(4)
In circumstances deemed appropriate by the court, violators may be subject to the Criminal Code of Georgia (O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.).
(e)
All law enforcement agencies, officers and officials of this state or any political division thereof are authorized, empowered and directed to enforce compliance with this section.
(Ord. of 4-19-1999(1), § 1(15-36—15-38); Ord. No. 01-02, § 1(15-33(a)(3)), 3-5-2001)
Sec. 74-58. - Removal of trees from or damage to public places.
No person shall cut down trees or otherwise cause damage to any public lot or square in the city, by himself or through his servants.
(Code 1983, § 15-8)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
Sec. 74-59. - Certain parks—Vehicles prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized vehicle within the boundaries of any park within the city dedicated to or posted for pedestrian and/or bicycle traffic only.
(b)
This section shall not apply to any motorized vehicle that is engaged in municipal, law enforcement or emergency duties; or engaged in the construction, repair or maintenance of pedestrian or bicycle paths or trails.
(c)
Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject to a civil fine of $500.00.
(Ord. No. 06-08, § 1, 2-20-2006)
Secs. 74-60—74-87. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SAFETY
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-88. - Disorderly conduct.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or of any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any unnecessary loud noise or shouting or yelling shall be considered disorderly conduct.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous, offensive or disorderly conduct by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting or by using obscene, offensive, profane or unseemly language likely to cause disturbance or vexation of a person of ordinary sensibilities or likely to provoke another to fight.
(Code 1983, § 15-15)
Annotation—The refusal of a person to move on, after having been directed to do so by an officer of the law, constituted disorderly conduct under the above section. Bennett v. City of Dalton, 69 Ga. App. 438, 25 S.E.2d 726 (1943).
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council to suppress disorderly conduct, § 4-9.
State Law reference— Disorderly conduct, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 74-89. - Obscene language and gestures.
Using obscene language, publicly and loudly, and willfully and maliciously making obscene gestures publicly, in the presence of others in the city, is prohibited.
(Code 1983, § 15-17)
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council to prevent obscene language, § 4-9.
State Law reference— Abusive or obscene language, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 74-90. - Maltreating intoxicated persons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to provoke to violence or abuse or maltreat any person intoxicated in the city.
(Code 1983, § 15-24)
State Law reference— Abusive language tending to incite breach of peace, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-39.
Sec. 74-91. - Disorderly houses.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, either by himself or others, a common, ill-governed and disorderly house, for the purpose of gambling, drinking or other disorderly act or to the common disturbance of the neighborhood or orderly citizens within the corporate limits.
(Code 1983, § 15-18)
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council to suppress disorderly houses, § 4-9.
State Law reference— Maintaining a disorderly house, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-44.
Secs. 74-92—74-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LOITERING

Sec. 74-121. - Prohibited generally.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "loitering" shall mean remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include concepts of spending time idly, walking about aimlessly and the colloquial expression "hanging around" and shall also include any person who is a member of a group of three or more persons who is loitering in a public place at a time or manner not usual for law-abiding citizens, under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
No person shall loiter in a public place in such manner as to:
(1)
Create or cause to be created a danger of a riotous, forceful or unlawful act;
(2)
Create or cause to be created any disturbance to the comfort and repose of any person acting lawfully;
(3)
Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
(4)
Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place so as to cause such person to fear for their safety.
This subsection shall also include the making of unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting, or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or disturb the person to whom or in whose hearing the remarks are made.
(c)
Whenever the presence of any person at any public place is causing any of the conditions enumerated in subsection (b) of this section, any police officer may order that person to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(d)
Any person violating this section shall be fined not less than $5.00 nor more than $200.00 for each offense.
(Code 1983, § 15-19)
State Law reference— Loitering or prowling, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-36.
Sec. 74-122. - School grounds.
Any loitering on any of the public school grounds by a person not in attendance at such school shall be a violation of this Code.
(Code 1983, § 15-20)
State Law reference— Loitering on school premises or within a school safety zone, O.C.G.A. § 20-2-1180.
Secs. 74-123—74-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ABANDONED WELLS OR HOLES

Sec. 74-151. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned well and abandoned hole mean any manmade opening upon the surface of the earth five feet or more in depth, not used for a period of 30 days, exclusive of ditches, stone, marble or slate quarries or sand or gravel pits.
(Code 1983, § 15-25)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-14.
Sec. 74-152. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in possession of land within the city to have or maintain an abandoned open well or hole, as defined in this division.
(Code 1983, § 15-26)
Sec. 74-153. - Covering of opening.
It shall be the duty of any owner or person in possession of land having or maintaining an abandoned or open well or hole to adequately cover the well or hole with some durable material, extending at least two feet from all edges of the well or hole opening.
(Code 1983, § 15-27)
State Law reference— Abatement of hazard from abandoned well or hole, O.C.G.A. § 44-1-14.
Secs. 74-154—74-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - FIREARMS; AIRGUNS

Sec. 74-181. - Possession by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any parent or any other person having custody of any child under 12 years of age to permit such child to have in his possession any firearm, air pistol, airgun or BB gun within the corporate limits.
(Code 1983, § 15-21)
Annotation—A violation of an ordinance making it unlawful for a parent to permit his minor child to possess an air rifle may constitute negligence per se. Faith v. Massengill, 104 Ga. App. 348, 121 S.E.2d 657 (1961).
State Law reference— Furnishing certain weapons to minors, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-101 et seq.
Sec. 74-182. - Discharge of airguns or BB guns.
The shooting or discharging of air rifles, air pistols and/or BB guns within the corporate limits is prohibited.
(Code 1983, § 15-22)
Sec. 74-183. - Discharge of firearms generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any pistol, gun or other firearm within the corporate limits, except as authorized by law or by permission of the mayor or any alderman.
(Code 1983, § 15-23)
State Law reference— Discharge of gun or pistol near public highway or street, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-103; discharge of firearms on property of another, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-104.
DIVISION 5. - LOUD NOISES

Sec. 74-184. - Unreasonably loud noises prohibited generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue to make or cause to be made, within the city, any loud noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities.
(Ord. No. 02-16, § 1, 8-5-02)
Sec. 74-185. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
Loud noise shall be defined as a sound which is plainly audible to a person of normal hearing ability more than 100 feet from the point of origin of such sound or noise and shall constitute prima facie evidence that such loud noise unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities.
(2)
Unreasonable or unreasonably shall mean unreasonable to the reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities.
(3)
Inhabitant, person or persons shall mean a reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities.
(Ord. No. 02-16, § 1, 8-5-02)
Sec. 74-186. - Specific prohibitions.
In addition to any other noise meeting the definition of loud noise as set forth in this division, the following noises, among others, are declared to be loud noises in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Horns, signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or other place in the city, except as a danger warning. The creation of any unreasonable loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for any unnecessary period of time.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, stereos, musical instruments, tape players, compact disc players, loud speakers, amplifiers, or similar devises. The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, stereo, tape player, compact disc player, loud speaker, amplifier, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound within the city in such manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is reasonably necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, stereo, tape player, compact disc player, loud speaker, amplifier, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible to a person with reasonably normal hearing at a distance of 100 feet from the room, building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Yelling, shouting. Yelling or shouting on the public streets, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, dwelling, commercial building, or public building.
(4)
Animals, birds. The keeping of any animal or bird within the city which, by causing frequent or long continued sound or noise, shall unreasonably disturb the comfort or repose of any persons.
(5)
Exhausts. The discharge within the city into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motorboat except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent unreasonably loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(6)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle within the city so out of repair or in such manner as to create unreasonably loud grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(7)
Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of an unreasonably loud noise within the city in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the operating and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(8)
Construction or repair of buildings. The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building within the city other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except such work as may be necessitated by emergency circumstances.
(9)
Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any unreasonable noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that a school, hospital, church or court is nearby and the hours of operation.
(10)
Hawkers, peddlers, vendors. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers or vendors within the city which unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of persons.
(11)
Noises to attract attention. The use of any instrument or device within the city for the purpose of attracting attention to any commercial enterprise by creation of unreasonably loud sounds or noises.
(12)
Pile drivers, hammers, similar equipment. The operation within the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by unreasonably loud sounds or noises.
(13)
Blowers. The operation within the city of any noise creating blower, vacuum or power fan between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the operation which causes unreasonable noise.
(14)
Sound trucks. The use within the city of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes when used at such an unreasonably loud volume so as to disturb persons in their residence, offices, schools, hospitals, churches or courts; or for noncommercial purposes when used between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 02-16, § 1, 8-5-02)
Sec. 74-187. - Exemptions.
The following are noises and sounds which are permissible and do not violate this section:
(1)
Noises resulting from authorized emergency vehicles when responding to an emergency.
(2)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business.
(3)
Excavations or repairs at night to bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city or the state when the public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(4)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loud speakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(5)
Noise emanating from events conducted on the premises of the North Georgia Fair Association or the Northwest Georgia Trade & Convention Center, provided such noise terminates on or before 10:00 p.m.
(6)
Horns, whistles or other signaling noises generated by trains.
(7)
Noises emanating from any parade, procession or other event which is conducted pursuant to a permit issued by the city.
(8)
Live and amplified music emanating from bars, restaurants, and event venues within the central business district, provided such live or amplified music terminates on or before 12:00 a.m.
All times herein shall be Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is then in effect.
(Ord. No. 02-16, § 1, 8-5-02; Ord. No. 16-10, § 1, 6-20-2016)
DIVISION 6. - GRAFFITI

Sec. 74-188. - Purpose.
Graffiti is a public nuisance that tarnishes the image of the city, contributes to the deterioration of neighborhoods, erodes property values, consumes city resources, and undermines the sense of well-being, safety and pride citizens feel for their community. the purpose of this article is to declare graffiti to be a public nuisance, to prohibit the painting, writing or inscription of any type of graffiti, to provide for the abatement of graffiti, and to provide penalties for the violation of this division.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 9-17-2007)
Sec. 74-189. - Definitions.
As used in this division, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Abate shall mean to permanently remove or cover graffiti.
(b)
Graffiti shall mean any inscriptions, words, figures, paintings, or other defacements that are written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of real property or improvements thereon without prior authorization of the owner or occupant of the property by means of any aerosol paint container, broad-tipped marker, gum label, paint stick, graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush, or other device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any surface.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 9-17-2007)
Sec. 74-190. - Prohibited conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, alter, modify, change, draw, damage or destroy by spraying or use of paint, or marking of ink, dye or any other similar substance on public and/or private buildings, structures, places, and personal property an inscription, slogan, drawing or modification, by or through the application of graffiti, as defined herein, without the express permission of the owner of such property. Any person violating this section shall be cited to the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 9-17-2007)
Sec. 74-191. - Graffiti abatement.
Whenever the city becomes aware of the existence of graffiti on any real or personal property within the city and visible from the public right-of-way or city-owned land, the city shall make a reasonable, good faith effort to contact the owner or person in charge of the property to determine if the markings were authorized. If the markings were not authorized then the city shall deliver to the owner or person in charge of the property a form to allow for the abatement of the graffiti under the report and paint program, or its successor program. If the owner or person in charge of the property either refuses to sign the graffiti abatement program form upon presentation by the city, or cannot be found, then the owner of record shall abate the graffiti within ten business days of written demand from the city to abate the graffiti. Written notice mailed to the property owner's address as shown on the city tax records shall be deemed delivery of notice as of the date mailed. If the property owner does not timely abate the graffiti, then the property owner will be deemed to have consented to entry onto the property by the city or its designee in order to abate the graffiti and the property owner shall reimburse the city on demand for the cost of the abatement not to exceed $250.00.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 9-17-2007)
Sec. 74-192. - Sanctions.
Any person who is found to have violated the provisions of section 74-190 shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $200.00, and not more than $1,000.00 for each violation so found, subject to performing community service at the discretion of the municipal court, and shall be required to reimburse either the property owner, the city or the applicable graffiti abatement program, as the case may be, for the actual cost of the abatement of the violator's graffiti.
(Ord. No. 07-16, § 1, 9-17-2007)
DIVISION 7. - AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING

Sec. 74-193. - Offense.
It shall be an offense against the city, the good order, peace and tranquility thereof, and an affront to public safety and the well-being of its citizens, for any person to engage in "aggressive panhandling," as defined in this section.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Sec. 74-194. - Definitions.
As used in this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply:
Panhandling shall mean any solicitation made in person upon a street, public way, public place including any park or plaza, or on public or private property open to the public for general business use in which a person solicits an immediate donation of money, gratuity, or other thing of value from another person, and includes but is not limited to seeking donations of cash.
Aggressive panhandling shall mean panhandling in an aggressive manner, including any of the following actions:
(1)
Panhandling while at any time before, during, or after the solicitation physically touching the solicited person without the solicited person's express prior consent, so as to create fear or apprehension of bodily harm by the solicited person;
(2)
Panhandling a person while such person is standing in line or waiting to be admitted to a general business establishment, show, or event; while waiting in a parked motor vehicle; or while occupying a standing motor vehicle, either in stopped or standing traffic on a roadway or in a drive-thru line at a general business establishment;
(3)
Panhandling by intentionally and physically obstructing the path of the solicited person or blocking entry by the solicited person to any building or vehicle;
(4)
Panhandling while intentionally following behind, alongside, or ahead of the solicited person who walks away from the panhandler to avoid being solicited;
(5)
Panhandling while using profanity or abusive language either during the solicitation or following a refusal to make a donation, or making any statement, gesture, or other communicative action that would cause a reasonable person to be fearful for his safety or intimidated not to make a donation;
(6)
Panhandling in a group of two or more persons; or
(7)
Panhandling between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
General business use shall include all commercial, retail, industrial, educational and governmental buildings, structures, and uses to which the general public has access, and any related parking lots and areas common thereto.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Sec. 74-195. - Permitted conduct.
The following shall not constitute panhandling or aggressive panhandling:
(1)
Solicitations seeking a contribution or donation to be paid at a future date and time shall not constitute panhandling.
(2)
The act of passively standing or sitting with a sign indicating a donation will be accepted, and which may or may not be accompanied by the selling of an item of little to no monetary value, unless within 25 feet of a business entrance or an automated teller machine;
(3)
The performing of music, singing and/or similar street performance, commonly known as "busking," with a sign or other indication that a donation will be accepted; and
(4)
The sale of goods or merchandise, including food and drinks, by a vendor during a sanctioned street festival or similar event.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Sec. 74-196. - Government interest.
To the extent this section may create a content-based limitation on free speech, it is the position of the city, as found by its mayor and council in enacting this section, that the interest of public safety of its citizens outweighs any unintended intrusion on a person's freedom of speech; such governmental interest is deemed compelling. It is the intent of the city to enforce this section in an identical and uniform manner against all violators, and that no person be treated less favorably on account of race, color, creed, religion, gender, domestic relationship, familial status, sexual orientation, national origin, political affiliation, transgender identity, or based upon the content of their speech or message conveyed.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Sec. 74-197. - Private property.
Nothing in this division is intended to authorize solicitations for cash or other things of value on private property generally accessible to the public when the owner, person or entity in legal possession thereof has conspicuously posted their premises against solicitations, and not expressly consented to such activity on its premises, including in parking lots and common areas thereof.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Sec. 74-198. - Sanctions.
A law enforcement officer reasonably suspecting a person to have engaged in aggressive panhandling under this section shall first warn the person that such conduct is unlawful and admonish the person to cease such activity and leave the premises where the conduct occurred. Any person engaged in aggressive panhandling, who fails to heed a reasonable warning from a law enforcement officer that such conduct is unlawful, shall be cited to appear before the municipal court; upon conviction, the person shall be sentenced to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law in the event such fine is not paid; to sentence such person to community service work; or to impose a sentence consisting of any combination of the penalties provided for herein. Each act of aggressive panhandling prohibited by this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 17-06, § 1, 8-21-2017)
Secs. 74-199—74-210. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND MORALS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-211. - Unsanitary conditions.
No person shall maintain open ditches, open sewers, unsanitary stables, unsanitary hog pens, unsanitary cow stalls or unsanitary toilets in the city. The city shall prosecute violations of this section before the municipal judge and is authorized and empowered to take whatever steps are necessary and advisable to abate any and all of such nuisances.
(Code 1983, § 15-32)
Charter reference— Power of mayor and council to enact health ordinances, § 4-9.
State Constitution reference— Power of city to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III.
Secs. 74-212—74-240. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MODEL GLUE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Model glue, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-90 et seq.; municipal ordinances on model glue, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-95.

Sec. 74-241. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Model glue means any glue, cement, solvent, or chemical substance containing one or more of the following chemicals: acetone, amyl chloride (iso- and tertiary), benzene, carbon disulfide, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, ether, ethyl acetate, ethyl alcohol, ethylene dichloride, isopropyl acetate, isopropyl alcohol, isopropyl ether, methyl acetate, methyl alcohol, propylene dichloride, propylene oxide, trichlorethylene, amyl acetate, amyl alcohol, butyl acetate, butyl alcohol, butyl ether, diethylcarbonate, diethylene oxide (dioxane), dipropyl ketone, ethyl butyrate, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (cellosolve), ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate (methyl cellosolve acetate), isobutyl alcohol, methyl amyl acetate, methyl amyl alcohol, methyl isobutyl ketone, or toluene.
(Code 1983, § 15-46)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-90.
Sec. 74-242. - Sale to retail dealers.
It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler of merchandise to sell or transfer any quantity of model glue to any person whomsoever who is not or does not represent a recognized bona fide retail dealer in merchandise customarily handling such product in the ordinary course of his business at a fixed location. If any such prohibited sale is made by any wholesaler, it shall constitute prima facie evidence of an intent to violate section 74-249.
(Code 1983, § 15-47)
State Law reference— Unlawful sale of model glue, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-92.
Sec. 74-243. - Sale at retail generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the retail sale of model glue unless such person is a recognized bona fide retail dealer (at a fixed location) in merchandise, customarily handling such product in the ordinary course of his business.
(Code 1983, § 15-48)
Sec. 74-244. - Limitation of quantity sold.
It shall be unlawful for any bona fide recognized retail dealer, as defined in section 74-243, to sell more than one tube or other minimum size container of model glue to any one customer within any 24-hour period, provided that this section does not apply to the sale of model glue together with a hobby or model kit.
(Code 1983, § 15-49)
Sec. 74-245. - Accessibility.
It shall be unlawful for any bona fide recognized retail dealer, as defined in section 74-243, to keep, maintain or prominently display in his business establishment any stock or supply of model glue in such manner or place as to make the glue accessible to customers or other members of the public without actually receiving the model glue directly from the retailer or his bona fide authorized representative.
(Code 1983, § 15-50)
Sec. 74-246. - Sale to minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally sell or otherwise transfer possession of any type of model glue to any minor under the age of 18, for any purpose whatsoever.
(Code 1983, § 15-51)
State Law reference— Purchase of model glue by minors, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-93 et seq.
Sec. 74-247. - Possession.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally possess any type of model glue for the purpose of using the glue in the manner prohibited by section 74-248.
(Code 1983, § 15-52)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-92.
Sec. 74-248. - Intentional inhalation; application of section to anesthesia.
No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, or dulling of the senses or nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the fumes from any model glue, provided that this section shall not apply to the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Code 1983, § 15-53)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-91.
Sec. 74-249. - Inducing other persons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally possess, buy, sell or otherwise transfer any type of model glue for the purpose of inducing or aiding any other person to violate section 74-247 or 74-248.
(Code 1983, § 15-54)
State Law reference— Transferring possession of model glue, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-92.
Secs. 74-250—74-275. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - OBSCENE MATERIAL

Sec. 74-276. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Material and matter mean any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other picture or other pictorial representation or any statue or other figure or any recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles, equipment, machines or materials.
Obscene material and obscene matter mean matter having all the following attributes:
(1)
To the average person, applying contemporary community standards, taken as a whole, it predominantly appeals to the prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or excretion;
(2)
The material taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value; and
(3)
The material depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined as follows:
a.
Acts of sexual intercourse, heterosexual or homosexual, normal or perverted, actual or simulated;
b.
Acts of masturbation;
c.
Acts involving excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the genitals;
d.
Acts of bestiality or the fondling of sex organs of animals; or
e.
Sexual acts of flagellation, torture, or other violence indicating a sadomasochistic sexual relationship.
Prurient interests means a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion or tending to excite lustful thoughts and which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or representation of such matters.
Sell and distribute mean to sell, offer for sale, exhibit, advertise for sale or give away.
Sexual conduct means:
(1)
Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; or
(2)
Patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals.
(Code 1983, § 15-12)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Obscene material defined, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80.
Sec. 74-277. - Distribution.
It shall be unlawful for any person to send or cause to be sent or bring or cause to be brought into this city for sale or distribution or to prepare, publish, print, exhibit, distribute or offer to distribute in this city or to have in his possession with the intent to distribute, to exhibit or to offer to distribute any obscene material.
(Code 1983, § 15-13)
State Law reference— Obscenity and related offenses, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80 et seq.
Secs. 74-278—74-305. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - MINORS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Underage persons prohibited on premises where alcoholic beverages are served, § 6-11; sales of alcoholic beverages to persons under age, § 6-12; admission of minors to adult businesses, § 26-149.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 74-306—74-330. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CURFEW[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, adopted March 17, 2014, amended former Art. VI, §§ 74-331, 74-332, in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. VI pertained to similar subject matter and derived from the Code of 1983, §§ 15-3, 15-4.

Sec. 74-331. - Findings and purpose.
It is the responsibility of the mayor and council to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city. The mayor and council find that persons under the age of 18 are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and experience to participate in unlawful activity and to be victims of older perpetrators of crime. The mayor and council are concerned about criminal activity engaged in by minors and the victimization of minors, especially those crimes and events that occur during late night hours and/or times in which minors should be at home. Studies have shown that curfews are effective to reduce the number of violent and property crimes committed by minors. The Impact of Juvenile Curfew Laws, Patrick Kline, University of California at Berkeley, June 2010; and that comprehensive, community-based juvenile curfew programs help reduce juvenile victimization, Curfew: An Answer to Juvenile Delinquency and Victimization, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, US Department of Justice, April 1996. The mayor and council have determined a curfew for those under the age of 18 will be in the best interest of the public health, safety, and general welfare and will help to attain the foregoing objectives and to diminish the undesirable impact of such conduct on the citizens of the city. Accordingly, the mayor and council find and declare that the purpose of this division is to reduce the number of crimes committed by and against minors during late night hours, and to safeguard the welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, 3-17-2014)
Sec. 74-332. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this division, shall be construed as defined in this section:
Adult means a person who is at least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor, or an emancipated minor.
Curfew hours means 11:59 p.m. on any day until 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
Emancipated minor means:
(1)
Any minor who has been emancipated by operation of law as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-11-720; or
(2)
Any person under the age of 18 who has had the disabilities of minority removed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Emergency means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Establishment means any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or entertainment.
Guardian means a person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a minor, or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the court.
Minor means any person 17 years of age or younger.
Operator means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and officers of a corporation.
Parent means a person who is a natural parent, an adopted parent, or stepparent of a minor.
Public place means any place to which the public or a substantial group of the public has access that includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
Remain means linger or stay, or to fail to leave a premises when requested to do so by an officer or the owner, operator, or the person in control of the premises.
(Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, 3-17-2014)
Sec. 74-333. - Curfew for minors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, it is unlawful for any minor to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon the streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, or to remain in establishments, public buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant lots, or any other public place in the city unsupervised by an adult, parent, or guardian having the lawful authority to be at such places, between the hours of 11:59 p.m. on any day until 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
(Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, 3-17-2014)
Sec. 74-334. - Exceptions.
The provisions of this division shall not apply in the following instances:
(a)
When a minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(b)
When the minor is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor, or if such minor is seeking medical treatment;
(c)
When the minor is returning directly home from a school activity, entertainment, recreational activity, or dance;
(d)
When the minor is returning directly home from lawful employment that makes it necessary to be in the above referenced places during the prescribed period of time;
(e)
When the minor is attending or traveling directly to or from an activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of assembly, or free exercise of religion;
(f)
When the minor is an emancipated minor;
(g)
When the minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
(Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, 3-17-2014)
Sec. 74-335. - Violations and penalties.
Any minor violating section 74-333(a) may be cited and penalized as follows:
(1)
Any person under the age 17 may be cited to the juvenile court of the county for adjudication in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations of such court.
(2)
Any person at the age of 17 at the time of violation may be cited to the municipal court and, upon conviction, penalized in accordance with section 1-7 of the Code.
(Ord. No. 14-01, § 1, 3-17-2014)
State Law reference— Juvenile courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-11-1 et seq.
