Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, City of Dalton, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1983, § 1-1)
Annotation—A copy of an ordinance, certified as a true and correct copy by the clerk of the city, must be accompanied by proper records or minutes, such as the measure adopting a compilation of ordinances, in order to be admitted in evidence. City of Dalton v. Cochran, 80 Ga. App. 252, 55 S.E.2d 907 (1949).
Charter reference— Name of city, § 1-1.
State Law reference— Exemplification of municipal records, etc., O.C.G.A. § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Alderman. The term "alderman" shall mean any person elected to the council.
Charter. The term "Charter" shall mean the Charter of the city, as it now exists or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The terms "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the phrase "of Dalton" followed it.
Code and this Code. Whenever the terms "Code" and "this Code" are referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Dalton, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be counted.
County. The terms "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Whitfield in the State of Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to males.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation and city. The terms "limits," "corporation" and "city" shall mean the corporate limits of the city, i.e., the legal boundary of the City of Dalton.
Mayor and council, council. Whenever the term "mayor and council" or "council" is used, it shall be construed to mean the mayor and council of the City of Dalton.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may also extend and be applied to several persons and things, and a word importing the plural number only may also extend and be applied to one person or thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation, and the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The term "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate, as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it shall mean a place.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed to be his residence.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the city seal, i.e., the seal of this municipal corporation.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant and occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Title of officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency is given, it shall be construed as though the phrase "of the City of Dalton" were added.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written and in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1983, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; "sidewalk" and "street" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Section catchlines and other headings.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of this Code shall be held invalid because of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading to any chapter, article or division.
(Code 1983, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1983, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any city ordinance any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any city ordinance, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided, the violation of such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than six months, or work on the public streets or public works for not more than six months or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the sections of this Code or any provision of any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1983, § 1-6)
Charter reference— Penalties for violations of ordinances, § 4-9; penalty for engaging in business without paying license fee, § 12-4.
State Law reference— Confinement of persons violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; nuisances, O.C.G.A. tit. 41; nuisances in cities, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1983, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the sections of this Code may be made by amending such section by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Dalton, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Dalton, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1983, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1983, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application, since they would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1983, § 1-11)
Sec. 1-12. - Official city time.
Time referred to in this Code and in city ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations shall mean Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, when applicable, and acts and deeds of commission prohibited after a named hour or before a named hour shall be held and understood to mean such hour by Eastern Standard Time. Wherever any reference to time is made in any of the sections of this Code or in any city ordinances and regulations, such rules, ordinances and regulations are amended to provide that the time provided therein shall be and is made Eastern Standard Time in accordance with law.
(Code 1983, § 1-12)
Editor's note— The official time of the state is Eastern Standard Time.
Sec. 1-13. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any administrative ordinance of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of city officers or employees;
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any right or franchise granted by the mayor and council to any person;
(7)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or providing regulations for such;
(11)
Any ordinance relating to zoning in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes or providing for the levying or collecting thereof;
(13)
Any ordinance establishing personnel policies and procedures or a retirement plan for the city employees, and amendments thereto;
(14)
Any ordinance establishing or providing for participation in an area planning and development commission or other intergovernmental body;
(15)
Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for subject matters not included in this Code; or
(16)
Any ordinance establishing or imposing any rates, charges or fees for utility services or connections.
(b)
All such ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1983, § 1-13)
