ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAX[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 106.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-276. - Pouring outlets.
There is levied an excise tax of the lesser of $0.80 or the legal limit on each gallon of distilled spirits or fraction thereof purchased by licensees for sale by the drink under this chapter.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-251))
State Law reference— Taxation of distilled spirits for sale by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130 et seq.
Secs. 6-277—6-305. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DISTILLED SPIRITS

Sec. 6-306. - Unlawful sales.
It shall be a violation of this division for any person to sell at retail within the city any distilled spirits on which the taxes provided for in this division have not been paid.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-256))
Sec. 6-307. - Levied.
In addition to all other taxes or license fees imposed upon retail dealers engaged in the city in the business of selling distilled spirits, as defined in this chapter, there is imposed and levied upon all such dealers an excise tax, to be computed and collected as set forth in this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-257))
State Law reference— Municipal excise tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80.
Sec. 6-308. - Duties of wholesaler.
Each wholesale dealer or distributor selling, shipping or delivering distilled spirits to any retail dealer in the city shall, as a condition of the privilege of carrying on such business in the city:
(1)
Keep true and correct records of all sales, shipments or deliveries of such distilled spirits to each retail dealer in the city. Such records shall be preserved for a period of one year and shall be made available on request for the inspection of any duly authorized city representative.
(2)
Collect from each such retail dealer in the city, at the time of delivery of the distilled spirits, the amount of tax due under this division and hold the money in trust for the city until such amount is remitted to the city as provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(3)
On or before the 20th day of each calendar month, make a verified and comprehensive report to the city which shall correctly show all sales and deliveries of distilled spirits to or for retail dealers in the city for the month immediately preceding the report. The report shall show the name and address of each retail dealer, quantities delivered to each retail dealer, the amount collected under the terms of this division and such other information as may be called for by the city. The report shall be accompanied by remittance to the city for all taxes collected or due as shown on the report. There is assessed a ten-percent late charge on the gross tax due for the month. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at an annual rate equal to the bank prime loan rate as posted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in statistical release H. 15 or any publication that may supersede it, plus three percent, to accrue monthly. Such annual interest rate shall be determined for each calendar year based on the first weekly posting of statistical release of H. 15 on or after January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-258); Ord. No. 16-12, § 1, 8-1-16)
Sec. 6-309. - Unlawful deliveries.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this division for any wholesale dealer or distributor or other person to deliver any distilled spirits to any retail dealer in the city without collecting the taxes provided for in this division at the time of delivery.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-259))
Sec. 6-310. - Noncompliance by wholesale dealer, distributor.
If any wholesale dealer or distributor fails or refuses to make the reports provided for in this division, the city shall notify the person in writing. If the reports are not made and the taxes remitted within five days from the date of the notice, the city may withdraw from the wholesale dealer or distributor the privilege of doing business in the city by revoking his license.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-260))
Sec. 6-311. - Frequency of payment.
The tax imposed in this division shall be computable and payable monthly.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-261))
Sec. 6-312. - Rate.
The tax levied under this division shall be computed on the basis of $0.80 per gallon of distilled spirits sold or delivered.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-262))
State Law reference— Maximum rate of tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80.
Secs. 6-313—6-340. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 6-341. - Imposed generally.
Except as provided in section 6-342, there is levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the city an excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12 ounces or proportionately of such amount of malt beverages sold by such wholesale dealer within the corporate limits, so as to graduate the tax on bottles, cans and containers of various sizes.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-277))
Annotation—Where a wholesale dealer in a different city sold and delivered beer in the City of Dalton only upon orders previously taken by its traveling agent or salesman, such business was not subject to a City of Dalton tax on dealers in beer at wholesale. Fruit Company v. City of Dalton, 184 Ga. 277, 191 S.E. 130 (1937).
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; occupation taxes for certain salespersons and merchants, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-354.
Sec. 6-342. - Tap or draft beer.
All malt beverages sold in or from a barrel or bulk container and being commonly known as tap or draft beer shall not be subject to the excise tax provided for in section 6-341, but in lieu thereof there is imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling such malt beverages within the corporate limits an excise tax of $6.00 for each barrel or bulk container having a capacity of not more than 15½ gallons sold by such wholesale dealer within the city and at a like rate for fractional parts thereof.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-278))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
Sec. 6-343. - Separate from other charges.
The excise taxes provided for in this division shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-281))
Sec. 6-344. - Payment and collection generally.
The excise tax imposed in this division shall be paid and collected in the manner provided in this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-276))
Sec. 6-345. - Duties of retail dealers for receipt and presentation of invoices.
All retail dealers of malt beverages and all persons selling at retail malt beverages within the city shall keep a correct record of all purchases of malt beverages and shall demand of and require all persons from whom they purchase malt beverages to furnish and deliver to them with such beverages a correct invoice of each purchase. The invoice shall be kept and preserved by the retailer at his place of business for a period of 12 months from date of the purchase. The invoices shall be open and subject to inspection by any authorized city representative at all reasonable times.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-285))
Sec. 6-346. - Report of wholesale dealers.
Each wholesale dealer who has sold malt beverages within the city shall file a report by the tenth day of each month itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of all malt beverages, by size and type of container, for the month sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made the amount of excise tax due in accordance with this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-279))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-81.
Sec. 6-347. - Marking.
No decal, stamp or other marking may be required on malt beverages designating the particular municipality or county in which a sale of malt beverages is made or in which resides a licensed retailer to whom the beverages are delivered.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-280))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-82.
Sec. 6-348. - Delinquencies.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance under this division shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of ten percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at an annual rate equal to the bank prime loan rate as posted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in statistical release H. 15 or any publication that may supersede it, plus three percent, to accrue monthly. Such annual interest rate shall be determined for each calendar year based on the first weekly posting of statistical release of H. 15 on or after January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-282); Ord. No. 16-12, § 2, 8-1-16)
State Law reference— Enforcement by city authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-84.
Sec. 6-349. - False report.
The filing of a false or fraudulent report under this division shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-283))
Sec. 6-350. - Revocation of license.
In addition to the penalties in sections 6-348 and 6-349, the failure to make a timely report or remittance or the filing of a false or fraudulent report under this division shall also constitute grounds for the revocation of the business license issued by the city to a wholesale dealer.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-284))
State Law reference— Authority of city to enforce collection and payment of tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-84.
Secs. 6-351—6-375. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WINE

Sec. 6-376. - Levied.
There is imposed and levied a specific excise tax upon all retail dealers in wine within the city limits at the rate of $0.22 per liter container.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-302))
State Law reference— Municipal excise tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 6-377. - Separate from other taxes and fees.
The tax levied under this division shall be in addition to all other taxes or license fees imposed upon retail dealers in wine and may be added by the retail dealer and collector as a sales tax from each customer, but the tax shall be paid nevertheless to the city by the retail dealer.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-303))
Sec. 6-378. - Payment and collection generally.
The excise tax imposed in this division shall be paid and collected as provided in this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-301))
Sec. 6-379. - Invoices.
Each distributor, wholesale dealer or manufacturer selling, shipping or delivering wine to any retail dealer or to any establishment having a pouring license in the city, by rail, truck or otherwise, shall make three true and correct copies of invoices of all sales and deliveries made to and for retail dealers in the city. One copy shall be delivered to the retail dealer at the time of delivery and one copy shall be retained and preserved by the wholesaler, distributor or manufacturer for a period of 12 months from the date of the sale to the retail dealer. The copy so retained shall be subject to inspection by any duly authorized city representative at all reasonable times.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-304))
Sec. 6-380. - Collection and custody.
At any time of delivery of wine, the wholesale dealer, distributor or manufacturer shall collect from the retail dealer the taxes imposed by this division and shall hold the money in trust for the city until the tax is remitted to the mayor and council as provided in this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-305))
Sec. 6-381. - Monthly report.
On or before the 20th day of each calendar month, each wholesale dealer, distributor and/or manufacturer delivering wine to or for any retail dealer or to an establishment having a pouring license shall make a true and correct report to the mayor and council on blanks to be furnished by the mayor and council of all sales and deliveries made to or for retail dealers in the city for the current month immediately preceding the report. The report shall show the name of each retail dealer, the location of the place of business of the retailer or the place where each delivery was made, the method of delivery, the number and size of each container, the amount collected as taxes and such other information as may be called for by the mayor and council. The failure to receive such blanks will not excuse the furnishing of the report and the remittance of the taxes.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-306))
Sec. 6-382. - Remittance.
The report required by section 6-381 shall be accompanied by remittance to the city for all taxes collected or due as shown on the report.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-307))
Sec. 6-383. - Duties of retail dealers for receipt and preservation of invoices.
All retail dealers of wine and all persons selling wine at retail within the city shall keep a correct record of all purchases of wine and shall demand of and require all persons from whom they purchase wine to furnish and deliver to them, with the wine, a correct invoice of each purchase. The invoice shall be kept and preserved by the retailer at his place of business for a period of 12 months from the date of the purchase. The invoices shall be open and subject to inspection by any authorized city representative at all reasonable times.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-308))
Sec. 6-384. - Failure to make reports.
If a wholesaler, distributor or retail dealer of wine fails and refuses to make the reports or maintain records as provided in this division and at the time specified, the mayor and council shall notify the party in writing by mail or otherwise. If the reports are not made and the taxes paid within five days from the date of the notice, the mayor and council shall proceed to assess the amount of taxes due by the dealer from the best information available, together with ten percent thereof as a penalty, and proceed to collect the taxes and penalty as provided for the collection of delinquent license taxes. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at an annual rate equal to the bank prime loan rate as posted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in statistical release H. 15 or any publication that may supersede it, plus three percent, to accrue monthly. Such annual interest rate shall be determined for each calendar year based on the first weekly posting of statistical release of H. 15 on or after January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-310); Ord. No. 16-12, § 3, 8-1-16)
Sec. 6-385. - Sale upon which tax not paid.
It shall be a violation of this article for any person to sell at retail or otherwise within the city any wine on which the tax as set out in this division has not been paid to the wholesaler or distributor for the city as provided or on which the tax not paid to the wholesaler or distributor at the time of delivery is not paid to the city by the retailer.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-311))
Sec. 6-386. - Prohibited sales and deliveries.
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesaler, distributor, manufacturer or other person to deliver any wine to any retail dealer in the city or to transport wine into the city for resale by any means whatsoever, except to licensed wholesale distributors, without collecting the taxes thereon as set out in this division at the time of delivery.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-312))
Sec. 6-387. - Revocation of license.
Any retail dealer of wine failing or refusing to pay the tax imposed and levied in this division or failing to abide by any of the terms or sections of this article shall be deemed to have forfeited his privileges of conducting or engaging in the business of selling wine in the city, and any license issued to the dealer by the city prior to that time shall be revoked and canceled.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-313))
Secs. 6-388—6-415. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY THE DRINK

Sec. 6-416. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agent means the person designated by the licensee in his application for a permit to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink.
Alcoholic beverages means any beverage containing alcohol obtained by distillation, including any distilled or fermented liquid containing consumable alcohol, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, vodka, cordials or other spirituous liquors by whatever named called and including fortified wines as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration, but does not include nonfortified wines, beer, ale or malt liquors.
Drink and mixed drink mean any alcoholic beverage, as defined in this division, served for consumption on the premises, which may or may not be diluted by water or other substance in solution.
Licensee means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, plural as well as singular number, who holds a permit from the city to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including receipts, credit, property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative nonprofit membership, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, who orders and gives present or future consideration for any alcoholic beverage by the drink.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this division.
Tax means the tax imposed by this division.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-321))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-417. - Imposition and rate.
There is imposed and levied upon every purchaser of an alcoholic beverage for beverage purposes by the drink within this city a tax in the amount of three percent at the purchase price of the beverage.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-322))
Sec. 6-418. - Administration of division.
(a)
Authority of mayor and council. The mayor and council shall administer and enforce this division for the collection of the tax imposed by this division.
(b)
Records required from licensee; form. Every licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink in this city shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the mayor and council may require.
(c)
Examination of records; audit. The mayor and council or any person authorized in writing by the mayor and council may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee for the sale of the alcoholic beverages by the drink and any licensee liable for the tax in order to verify the accuracy of any return made or, if no return is made by the licensee, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports; contents. In the administration of this division, the mayor and council may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having possession or custody of information relating to purchases which are subject to the tax. Reports shall be filed with the mayor and council when required by the mayor and council and shall set forth the purchase price for each purpose, the date of purchase and such other information as the mayor and council may require.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-330))
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 6-419. - Violations.
Any person violating any section of this division shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-7. Any licensee or any other person who fails to furnish any return required to be made or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the mayor and council or who renders a false or fraudulent return shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in this section.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-331))
Sec. 6-420. - Authority and requirement of licensee to collect.
Every licensee or his agent is authorized and directed to collect the tax imposed in this division from purchasers of alcoholic beverages by the drink within the licensed premises. Such licensee or agent shall furnish such information as may be required by the mayor and council to facilitate the collection of the tax.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-323))
Sec. 6-421. - Collection; receipts. rules and regulations.
Every licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink operating a place of business in this city shall, at the time of collection for food and/or drink served, give to the purchaser a receipt on which the purchase price and tax imposed by this division on alcoholic beverages by the drink shall be itemized separately. When the collection of food and/or drinks is by deferred payment or credit, the licensee is liable at the time of and to the extent that such credits are incurred in accordance with the rate of tax owing on the amount thereof. The mayor and council shall have authority to adopt rules and regulations prescribing methods and schedules for the collection and payment of the tax.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-324))
Sec. 6-422. - Determination, returns and payments.
(a)
Due date. The tax imposed by this division shall become due and payable from the purchaser at the time of the purchase of any mixed drink in this city. All amounts of such taxes collected by the licensee shall be due and payable in the city monthly on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth in section 6-416.
(b)
Return. On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the mayor and council in such form as the mayor and council may prescribe by every licensee liable for the payment of the tax under this division. All returns shall show the gross receipts of the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink and the amount of the tax collected on such drinks.
(c)
Collection fee allowed licensees. Licensees collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if the amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state tax under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951, as amended (O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.).
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-325))
Sec. 6-423. - Deficiency determinations on returns.
(a)
Generally. If the mayor and council have cause to believe that the return of the tax or the amount of tax required to be paid to the city under this division by any person is not proper, it may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information that is within or may come into its possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest. Delinquent amounts shall bear interest at an annual rate equal to the bank prime loan rate as posted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in statistical release H. 15 or any publication that may supersede it, plus three percent, to accrue monthly. Such annual interest rate shall be determined for each calendar year based on the first weekly posting of statistical release of H. 15 on or after January 1 of each calendar year.
(c)
Notice of determination; service. The city or its designated representatives shall give to the licensee written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the licensee at his address as it appears in the city records. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Timeframe for mailing. Except for failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-326); Ord. No. 16-12, § 4, 8-1-16)
Sec. 6-424. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimates of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return as required in this division, the mayor and council shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is in possession of the mayor and council. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in subsection 6-423(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or fraction thereof from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof would have been returned until the date of payment.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-327))
Sec. 6-425. - Penalty for nonpayment.
Any person who fails to pay the tax imposed in this division or who fails to pay any amount of the tax required to be collected and paid to the city within the time required shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof as set forth in subsection 6-424(b).
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-328))
Sec. 6-426. - Action for tax; tax credit; penalty or interest paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected.
At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected pursuant to this division becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the mayor and council may bring an action in the courts of this state any other state or of the United States in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent, together with penalties and interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto. Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once or has been paid erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under this division, it may be offset against any future liability for the tax. If the licensee determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the city, he will have three years from the date of payment to file a claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the mayor and council, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid or from his administrators or executors.
(Ord. of 9-7-1999, § 1(4-329))
Secs. 6-427—6-485. - Reserved.
