ARTICLE VI. - PAWNBROKERS

Sec. 26-250. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means any person working for an owner or pawnbroker, or any owner pawnbroker who, in the performance of duties or the management of the business affairs of a pawnshop, comes into substantial contact with members of the public, or is employed on a part-time or full-time basis, either with or without remuneration, by a pawnshop.
Pawn or pledge means a bailment of personal property as security for any debt or engagement, redeemable upon certain terms and with the implied power of sale on default.
Pawnbroker means any person, whether an owner or not, who works in a pawnshop on a regular basis and in a managerial capacity whereby the person has charge of the business or operations of the pawnshop. Pawnbroker includes any person whose business or occupation it is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares or merchandise or any kind of personal property whatever, as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
Pawnshop means any business wherein a substantial part thereof is to take or receive, by way of pledge, pawn or exchange, any goods, wares, merchandise or any kind of personal property as security for the repayment of money lent thereon.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-251. - Permit, compliance required.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to act as a pawnbroker or to operate a pawnshop in the city without a current pawnbroker permit. It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker or pawnshop to operate in violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-252. - Pawnbroker permit.
(a)
Before operating a pawnshop, the owner must first file an application with the city clerk for a pawnbroker permit and obtain the approval of the permit by the public safety commission. Failure of the public safety commission to approve or disapprove the permit application within 60 days of its filing with the city clerk shall be deemed an approval and the city clerk shall issue the permit upon request of the applicant and payment of the applicable fee;
(b)
No permit shall be issued until a fee in an amount established by the public safety commission from time to time, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk, is paid to the city;
(c)
Any person or entity holding a permit under this article shall be required to renew the permit on or before the next January 15. Any permit not renewed by January 15 shall expire automatically and without notice at 12:01 a.m. on January 16. Any application for a new permit necessitated by the failure to timely renew shall be assessed a penalty in the amount of ten percent of the permit fee to cover administrative costs associated therewith;
(d)
In the event an applicant for renewal of a pawnbroker permit has not paid all required city taxes on or before the end of the year in which they are due, then the renewal application shall not be accepted by the city clerk until all such taxes are paid and the applicant has presented proof of such payment;
(e)
The application shall state the address of the pawnshop;
(f)
The application shall contain the full name, address, phone number, date of birth and Social Security number of each employee and owner;
(g)
The chief of police, or his designee, shall investigate each applicant for such permit and shall report to the public safety commission whether such applicant meets the requirements of this article;
(h)
The denial of an application for a pawnbroker permit shall be in writing, with the reasons therefor stated, and shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant. Provided a request for a hearing is made in writing and delivered to the city clerk within ten business days of applicant's receipt of a permit denial, an applicant shall be afforded a hearing before the public safety commission with an opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses. The hearing shall be held within 60 days of the city clerk's receipt of a timely request for a hearing, and a decision shall be rendered in writing no later than 30 days after the close of the hearing. The failure of the public safety commission to hold a timely hearing or to render a timely decision shall be deemed an approval of the application for a pawnbroker permit.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-253. - Prior convictions.
No pawnbroker, employee, or any person having an ownership interest in a pawnshop for which a permit is sought, shall have been convicted of a crime involving "moral turpitude" or shall have been convicted of any crime involving felony theft, burglary, robbery, dishonesty, or a violation of the state's "Family Violence Act." A condition of consideration of any application for a pawnbroker permit shall be that the pawnbroker, his employees, and any person having an ownership interest in the pawnshop grant the city permission to conduct a criminal background investigation on each such person. No person shall be an employee of a pawnshop in any capacity until a criminal records check on such person has been completed by police department. It shall be the duty of the pawnbroker to assure that there is compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-254. - Records of transactions.
(a)
Every pawnshop and pawnbroker shall maintain a permanent electronic record of all transactions so that an accurate description of all property pledged, traded or sold to the pawnshop or pawnbroker can be transmitted to the city police department via an electronic automated reporting system. Each transmission shall be made at the time of each transaction, and the following information shall be included therein:
(1)
The date and time of the purchase, pawn or sale of property;
(2)
The name, address and telephone number of the customer making the pledge, trade or sale;
(3)
A description of the customer in terms of sex, race, date of birth, height and weight, as well as the driver's license number of the customer or some other identification card that contains a photograph of the customer;
(4)
A description of the pledged or purchased property by serial, model or other number, if available, and by any identifying marks (e.g., brand name, color, style, etc.);
(5)
The number of the receipt or pawn transaction issued for the property pawned or bought;
(6)
The price paid or the amount loaned;
(7)
The maturity date of the transaction, if a pawn;
(8)
A photograph of the customer and of the item pawned or bought which will be taken with the electronic automated reporting system at the time of the transaction;
(9)
The signature of the customer;
(b)
Every pawnbroker and pawnshop may elect to upload electronically via the internet a batch file of all transactions for each business day to the administrator of the electronic automated reporting system immediately at the conclusion of each business day. The administrator of the electronic automated reporting system will electronically transmit all transactions to the city police department.
(c)
In the event that the electronic automated reporting system becomes temporarily or permanently disabled, pawnbrokers and pawnshops will be notified as soon as possible. In this event, the pawnbroker and pawnshop will be required to make records of transactions in paper form. Such paper forms must include all information as enumerated in subsection (a) of this section. Pawnbrokers and pawnshops shall maintain a three-day supply of paper forms.
(d)
Any duly authorized law enforcement officer may, during the ordinary hours of business or any other reasonable time, inspect any pawnbroker's electronic records at the pawnbroker's place of business to ensure compliance with this section.
(e)
The chief of police or his designee shall select and designate the required automated reporting system. There will be a fee assessed to the pawnbroker for each reported transaction. Said fee shall be set from time to time by the public safety commission in such an amount that the anticipated aggregate fees collected will defray the cost of the city to maintain the automated reporting system. The fee shall be invoiced to the pawnbroker monthly by the vendor of the automated reporting system or as otherwise determined by the public safety commission.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-255. - Waiting period for disposal of articles.
Any pawnbroker or employee of a pawnshop who makes a loan on pledged goods, or buys pledged goods on the condition that the seller may repurchase said goods, shall hold said goods for at least 30 days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise. Non-pledged goods bought under this section shall be held for at least seven calendar days before disposing of them by sale, transfer, shipment or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
Sec. 26-256. - Penalty for violation of article; suspension or denial of renewal of permit.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to citation to the municipal court, and upon a determination by the municipal court that a violation of this article has occurred, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00.
(b)
Any person or entity that is found by the municipal court to be in violation of any provision of this article shall be subject to the suspension of the pawnbroker permit for 30 days by the public safety commission, suspension of the pawnbroker permit and the denial of any renewal thereof for 60 days by the public safety commission if it is the second violation found by the municipal court within a 12-month period, or suspension of the pawnbroker permit and the denial of any renewal thereof for one year by the public safety commission if it is the third violation found by the municipal court within a five-year period.
(Ord. No. 09-08, § 1, 4-6-2009)
