ARTICLE XIV. - ZONING AND PLANNING[20]

Footnotes:
--- (20) ---
Editor's note— The provisions of this article were enacted pursuant to an amendment to Ga. Const. art. III, § VII, ¶ XXV, which authorized the general assembly to grant the City of Dalton authority to enact zoning and planning laws (1937 Ga. Laws, page 1137).
Charter cross reference—Enumeration of corporate powers, § 4-9.
State Constitution reference— Planning and zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.
State Law reference— Regional development centers, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-30 et seq.

Sec. 14-1. - General authority of mayor and council.
The City of Dalton is hereby authorized, by and through its mayor and council, to pass zoning and planning laws whereby said city may be zoned or districted for various uses and other or different uses, and shall be further authorized to pass laws regulating uses for which said zones or districts may be set apart, and to regulate the plans for developing and improving the real estate within the corporate limits of said city.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 2)
Sec. 14-2. - Adoption of plan for districting city, regulating districts.
The mayor and council may, in the interest of the public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the districting or zoning of the city for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property, or for the purpose of regulating the height of the buildings or other structures, or for the area or dimensions of the lots, or of the yards used in connection with buildings or other structures, or for the purposes of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of [the] purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of districts and zones, and such districts may be of such shape and area, as the mayor and council shall deem best situated to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
In the determination and establishment of districts and regulations, classifications may be used based on the nature or character of the trade, industry, profession, or other activity conducted or to be conducted upon the premises, the number of persons, families or other group units to reside in or use buildings, the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use of premises, or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the public health, safety, order, morals, conveniences, prosperity, or welfare.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 3)
Sec. 14-3. - Classification, regulation of residential districts.
For the reasons above stated, said mayor and council shall have the further right and power, in any districts proposed to be set aside primarily for residence purposes, to further classify the use thereof, and to provide therein the class or classes of residents to be housed therein, and to provide therein such other and similar regulations and restrictions as shall secure the peace and good order of the city and residents thereof.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 3a)
Sec. 14-4. - Amendment of zoning regulations.
The City of Dalton, by and through its mayor and council[,] may from time to time amend or change the regulations or districts established by the zoning ordinance.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 4)
Sec. 14-5. - Vote required to adopt, amend zoning regulations.
No such ordinance or amendment thereto, authorized by any of the above sections, shall be adopted except by three-fourths vote of the mayor and council.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 965, § 3a)
