ARTICLE V. - AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Adopted by the board of commissioners, March 7, 1990.

5.1 - AG-1 Agricultural District.
5.1.1 AG-1 District intent and scope. Regulations set forth in this article are the AG-1 District regulations. Article XIX should be consulted to determine uses and minimum standards for uses allowed by administrative or use permit. The AG-1 District is intended to encompass lands devoted to a wide range of uses including individual parcels devoted to residential use, single family subdivisions, agricultural and closely related uses.
5.1.2 Use regulations.
A.
Permitted uses. A building or property may be used for only the following purposes:
1.
Single family dwelling.
2.
Agriculture, general and specialized farming, including: horticulture, plant nursery, greenhouse, dairy farming, livestock raising and poultry raising provided, however, that buildings used for housing animals must be at least 100 feet from all property lines.
3.
Roadside stand for the sale of agricultural products produced on the property.
4.
Riding stable other than accessory, provided buildings housing animals are at least 100 feet from all property lines and the lot is not less than ten acres. Standards for keeping horses other than for a nonaccessory public riding stable are the same as the standards contained in section 4.8.1 pertaining to the keeping of horses in a single family dwelling district.
5.
Kennel, veterinary hospital or veterinary clinic, provided buildings housing animals are fully enclosed and at least 100 feet from all property lines; and pens, runs, etc. which are not located in a fully enclosed building are at least 200 feet from all property lines.
B.
Accessory uses. A building or land may be used for uses customarily incidental to any permitted use and a dwelling may be used for a home occupation.
5.1.3 Development standards.
A.
Height regulations: No building shall exceed 40 feet in height. (Amended 2/7/96)
B.
Minimum front yard: 60 feet.
C.
Minimum side yard:
— 25 feet adjacent to interior line.
— 40 feet adjacent to street.
D.
Minimum rear yard: 50 feet.
E.
Minimum lot area:
— one acre with frontage on paved road.
— three acres with frontage on unpaved road. (Added 5/6/92)
F.
Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
G.
Minimum lot frontage: 35 feet adjoining a street. (Amended 11/3/93)
H.
Minimum heated floor area: There is no minimum heated floor area in this district.
I.
Minimum accessory structure requirements: Accessory structures may be located in rear or side yards, but shall not be located within a minimum yard.
J.
Conservation subdivision. The development standards of a conservation subdivision shall be in accordance with Section VI of the Fulton County Subdivision Regulations. (Added 05/05/04)
5.1.4 Other regulations. The headings below contain provisions applicable to the AG-1 District:
Development regulations. Article XXXIV
Exceptions. Section 4.3
Floodplain management. Section 4.24
Off-street parking and loading. Article XVIII
Outside storage. Section 4.2
Landscape area and buffer regulations. Section 4.23
River protection. Metropolitan River Protection Act
Signs. Article XXXIII
