ARTICLE XV. - VENEREAL DISEASES[15]

Footnotes:
--- (15) ---
State Law reference— Control of venereal disease, O.C.G.A. § 31-17-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-696. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Department means the Fulton County Board of Health.
Health officer means the Fulton County District Health Director or his or her authorized agent.
Person means a human individual.
Prostitution means the practice of engaging in sexual acts for money.
Releasee means a person who has been released from custody pursuant to the agreement described in subsection 34-698(a).
Venereal disease means syphilis, gonorrhea and/or chancroid.
(Res. of 10-20-76, § 1; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 34-697. - Declaration of public health menace.
Persons infected with venereal disease and who are in an infectious stage are hereby declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable and dangerous to public health.
(Res. of 10-20-76, § 2)
Sec. 34-698. - Disposition and treatment of persons buying or suspected of having venereal disease.
(a)
Any person arrested by law enforcement authorities who is known to be infected with a venereal disease shall be held for the health officer. Any person suspected of being infected with any such disease shall be held for the health officer, provided however:
(1)
Any such suspect, if he is not being detained for reasons other than his being suspected of being infected with a venereal disease, shall be released from custody upon his written agreement to report for examination to the department during the department's regular office hours not later than the close of business on the department's next regular business day for appropriate tests and examination.
(2)
The arresting authority shall notify the department that such suspect has been released.
(3)
A releasee shall report to the department and submit to tests and examination as agreed.
(4)
If tests and examination indicate that a releasee is infected with venereal disease, such releasee shall submit to such treatment as is deemed necessary or appropriate by the health officer at such times as are deemed necessary or appropriate by the health officer.
(5)
The health officer shall make an appropriate report to the arresting authority with respect to any releasee who failed to report as agreed or reported as agreed, but failed to report for treatment as required.
(6)
Upon the subsequent arrest of a person with respect to such a report described in subsection (a)(5) of this section has been made by the health officer, such person shall be permitted to enter into an agreement as described in subsection (a)(1) of this section or to be released from custody pursuant to any such agreement.
(b)
The following persons shall be deemed to be suspects: Any person caught soliciting for prostitution on the streets or under circumstances that would reasonably support the charge of soliciting for immoral purposes, or an occupant of a house of prostitution, or of any place having the reputation of being such.
(c)
Persons known to be infected with venereal diseases, and persons suspected of being infected with venereal disease and not released pursuant to an agreement as described in subsection (a) of this section shall be held a reasonable time without bond for administration of such tests, examination and treatment for venereal disease as are deemed by the health officer to be necessary and appropriate.
(d)
Under no circumstances shall the results of tests or examinations administered pursuant to this section be used in any criminal court if connection with any criminal prosecution.
(Res. of 10-20-76, § 3)
Sec. 34-699. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Res. of 10-20-76, § 4)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Secs. 34-700—34-725. - Reserved.
