Chapter 62 - ROADS AND BRIDGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Moving of buildings, § 14-176 et seq.; impact fees, § 58-161 et seq.; ordinances pertaining to traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; resolutions pertaining to roads and bridges, ch. 162; resolutions pertaining to traffic and vehicles, ch. 174.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Roads and bridges, ch. 42.
State Law reference— State, county and municipal road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-1 et seq.; county road systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-40 et seq.; regulation of maintenance and use of public roads generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Installation of irrigation system in county rights-of-way; permit required; indemnity agreements; content and form of agreements.
(a)
All persons or entities seeking to install an irrigation system to serve their private interests and to have the components of such irrigation system located within the boundaries of Fulton County owned rights-of-way must do so by permit as issued by Fulton County's Public Works Department.
(b)
The location of such irrigation system's components is an encroachment upon Fulton County's rights-of-way by private parties, and said private party is to completely indemnify Fulton County and hold it harmless from all damages, injuries, lawsuits, or claims of any character caused by the construction and/or maintenance of this encroachment.
_____
(c)
Such irrigation system components' encroachment is to fully satisfy all the terms and conditions of indemnity agreements set forth by Fulton County's Public Works Department, which agreement shall include provisions in substantially the following form:
The applicant shall reimburse the public works department for any cost incurred as a result of public works' department performing such repairs.
The public works department reserves the right to terminate this indemnification agreement at any time upon ten days' written notice to the applicant. Upon receipt of such notice and as may be specified by the public works department, the applicant, at his/her own expense, shall be responsible for removing any objects from the encroachment and returning the area to its original condition or an acceptable substituted condition.
The term of the indemnity agreement shall be for a period of 50 years, commencing upon execution hereof by the public works department, subject to any rights of termination as are hereinabove set forth.
The covenants herein contained shall, except as otherwise provided, accrue to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this agreement, individually or through their authorized officers, agents or attorney-in-fact as the case may be, causing their respective seals to be affixed hereto the day and year first above written.
EXPAND
DEPARTMENT OF FULTON COUNTY
PUBLIC WORKS Corporate Seal required for
Corporation plus two signatures
BY: _____
Director/Deputy Director _____
Signature of Property Owner
_____
Chairman, Board of Commissioners
Fulton County _____
Signature of Owner
(if more than one listed)
ATTEST
SIG. _____
Clerk
Recorded _____
Typed Name of Actual Owner
R/W ENCROACHMENT Book No. 1
Page_____ _____
Signature of Applicant
Date________County _____
Page_____ _____
Typed Name of Applicant
_____ Notary Public
Commission Expiration: (NOTARIAL SEAL)
  (91-RC-234, 5-15-91)
_____
Secs. 62-2—62-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNIFORM ROADWAY ADDRESSING SYSTEM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 05-0584, §§ 1—16, adopted May 18, 2005, amended art. II in its entirety to read as herein set out. Formerly, said article pertained to similar subject matter as enacted by Ord. No. 01-0582, §§ 1—14, approved May 16, 2001. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of amendment.

Sec. 62-36. - Title.
This article may be cited and referred to as "The Fulton County Uniform Roadway Addressing, Street Naming and Project Identification Ordinance".
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 1, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-37. - Purpose and intent.
The Fulton County Board of Commissioners finds that the efficient and prompt provision of emergency services is essential to the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Fulton County. The board of commissioners further finds that inadequate, duplicative and or incorrect address numbers and street names pose a real and substantial threat to the provision of such emergency services. In order to improve the provision of emergency services, the board of commissioners hereby creates the following system for uniformly assigning roadway names and property addresses within unincorporated Fulton County.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 2, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-38. - Definitions.
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
"Access" shall mean point of or means of entry.
"Department" shall mean the Fulton County Department of Environment and Community Development, or any successor to that department.
"Building" shall mean the dominant building or buildings on a parcel of land. "Principal building" shall not include accessory structures such as sheds, cabanas or garages (provided that any such garage is not used, in whole or in part, for residential, commercial, office or institutional purposes).
"Corner lots" (AKA lot, corner) shall mean a multiple frontage lot adjoining two streets at their intersection.
"Cul-de-sac" shall mean a street having only one connection to another street, and is terminated by a vehicular turn around. The maximum depth of a cul-de-sac shall be 600 feet, as measured from the intersection of the center line with the center line of the intersecting street to the back of curb of the cul-de-sac.
"Driveway" shall mean a roadway (or driveway) owned and maintained by a private entity and used for access and circulation internal to a property.
"Entrance way" shall mean the main access to the building or structure.
"Entrance roadway" shall mean the roadway from which access to a property or principle structure located upon said property is obtained.
"Gated communities" shall mean an enclave of homes with a unique identity, surrounded by walls, often with security guards, containing privately owned and maintained roadways under the management and responsibility of an established homeowner's association.
"Lot frontage" shall mean the shortest of any property line adjoining a street or, for lots requiring no street frontages, oriented toward a street. A property line adjoining a stub street shall not be considered as frontage unless it is proposed for access or is the only street frontage. Front yard requirements shall be measured from this property line. In situations where a multiple frontage lot has equal distance on street frontages, the director of the department of environment and community development shall determine the legal lot frontage.
"Private street" shall mean a roadway constructed to Fulton County Standards but owned and maintained by a private entity. Necessary easements for ingress and egress for police, fire, emergency vehicles and all operating utilities shall be provided.
"Public street" shall mean a roadway owned and maintained by the federal, state, or local government.
"Privately owned communities". See gated communities.
"Project" shall mean an organized undertaking to develop a property pursuant to a permit from Fulton County, issued pursuant to an approved plan found to be consistent with the rules, regulations and standards of State, Federal and local regulatory agencies.
"Roadway" shall mean and include, but not be limited to, any and all roads, drives, streets, highways, or routes (regardless of designation) for vehicular traffic in unincorporated Fulton County, whether public or private, accepted or unaccepted. "Roadway" shall not include private driveways that serve only one principal building.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 3, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-39. - Address numbers.
All residential, commercial, office, industrial and other tracts of land in unincorporated Fulton County on which a principal building is or will be located are required to be issued an address by the department or its successor department. Each such address shall be posted by the owner on or about the tract in accordance with the following guidelines:
(1)
Except as permitted in subsection 62-39(1) of this article, all addresses shall contain (in addition to the roadway name) numbers only. Alphanumeric or lettered addresses shall not be permitted. Each address shall conform to the following rules:
a.
Multi-tenant or multi-occupant commercial, office or institutional developments shall have only one address and shall be assigned a building address for each principal building and individual suite or unit numbers by the department. Once a systematic pattern of address has been established, it shall be maintained for the entire project. Alternatively, such commercial, office or institutional developments shall seek approval of names of internal streets within the development, in which case the department shall assign addresses on such internal streets. Multi-family residential developments (including apartments, townhouses and condominiums) shall have building addresses and/or letter for each principal building and numbers for each individual unit as approved by the department. Condominiums and/or town homes to be occupied by independent owners may be assigned individual addresses for each separate unit as long as said units are not stacked one over the other.
b.
For non-single family residential properties, all principal buildings which are 50 feet or less from the edge of the roadway shall have affixed to the building the address number(s) directly over or on the main entrance door(s). Such address numbers shall be at least six inches and not more than 12 inches in height and shall be of a color which contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway. (2000 International Fire Code, Section 505). Each building number shall be prominently displayed on each side of said building that is visible from the main access or parking area serving the project or complex in which the building is located. Such building number shall be at least 12 inches in height and shall be of a color which contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway.)
c.
For non-single family residential properties, all principal buildings which are more than 50 feet from the edge of the roadway shall have affixed to the building or structure the address number(s) directly over or on the main entrance door(s). Such address numbers shall be at least eight inches and no more than 16 inches in height and shall be of a color that contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway. (2000 International Fire Code, Section 505). Each building number shall be prominently displayed on each side of said building that is visible from the main access or parking area serving the project or complex in which the building is located. Such building number shall be at least 12 inches in height and shall be of a color which contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway.)
d.
For all commercial, office, industrial or multi-family residential developments that contain multiple addresses and/or building numbers, the range of addresses and/or building numbers shall also be posted on the main sign or identification monument at the main entrance and shall be readily identifiable from the edge of the roadway. Directions to other buildings within such a development shall be clearly posted at each internal roadway intersection. For multi-family residential developments, directional signs indicating the location of individual units shall be placed on each floor at the primary point of ingress and egress (e.g., at the elevator or main stairwell).
e.
For all commercial, office, industrial or multi-family residential developments any entrance way or principal building that is not readily visible from the roadway, address numbers shall also be posted at the main entrance or driveway to the principal building. Such address numbers shall be at least six inches and not more than 12 inches in height and shall be of a color which contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway. (2000 International Fire Code, Section 505).
f.
For properties whose primary access is different from their lot frontage, address number shall be assigned and posted from the access point.
g.
Each residential one- or two-family dwelling shall have its address number posted on a mailbox or addressing post located at or near the main entrance or vehicle access point to the property. Such address numbers shall have a minimum stroke height of three inches and shall be of a color that contrasts with the surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable without obstruction from the edge of the roadway.
h.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this article, all properties shall be identified by a property number of a minimum size as identified in this section. All signs, including temporary signs and identification monuments on properties which have been assigned a property number (street number) shall display the numbers and/or letters with characters that are at least four inches tall for signs located along limited access, arterial and major collector streets, and three inches tall along minor collector and local streets.
i.
If access to any principal building is by way of a roadway different from the principal building's address roadway, the address number shall be posted on the address roadway. In such cases, the address roadway and address number shall also be posted on each entrance roadway at the intersection of the access point and the entrance roadway.
j.
Each roadway, including state and federal highways, shall contain address numbers that are consistently sequenced throughout its length.
k.
Address numbers shall be assigned such that, traveling from lower address numbers to higher address numbers, odd-numbered addresses are on the right side of the roadway and even-numbered addresses are on the left side of the roadway.
l.
Each property owner shall keep all address numbers in good repair and shall not allow such numbers to be obscured as viewed from the roadway.
m.
To the extent not in conflict with the provisions of this article, Fulton County shall follow the guidelines set forth in the Proposed Property Numbering System for Metropolitan Atlanta promulgated by the Atlanta Region Metropolitan Planning Commission (1963), except for culs-de-sac. Culs-de-sac shall be addressed in three digits numbers (100, 110, etc). Culs-de-sac shall comply with the remaining provisions of this section and this article.
n.
The property owner shall have the responsibility of ensuring compliance with the requirements of this section, regardless of whether the premises are leased or owner-occupied.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 4, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-40. - Subdivisions and other new developments.
(a)
All project names for and roadway names and addresses within subdivisions and other new developments shall be reviewed and approved by the department during the minor subdivision plat or land disturbance permit (LDP) approval process. Prior to the release of a LDP, all street names must be approved for use within the subdivision. Once a project name has been approved, it shall not be changed without written permission by the director of the department. For continuity, the LDP number assigned to the project, regardless of the project name used at the time of submittal, must appear on the face of all referenced documents, including, but not limited to, all LDP drawings, studies, plans and plats.
(b)
A temporary sign bearing the name of the project and the approved LDP number shall be installed within 24-hours of the beginning of any activity on the subject property, clearly visible in both directions from the main thoroughfare serving as access to the project. This sign must be updated within 24-hours should there be any change of the name approved by the director of the department and shall be maintained until a permanent identification sign or monument is installed.
(c)
Each application for a land disturbance permit for a multi-family development shall include a concept plan identifying all proposed roadways with the proposed names for said roadways. Any subsequent request for roadway name or address changes by the subdivider or developer will require submission of a new preliminary plat (or concept plan, as applicable) for review by the department.
(d)
Once an LDP is approved, no lot number, street name or address shall be changed by the re-recording of a plat without the prior expressed written consent of the department. No application for a permit on said lot thus affected will be considered until approved by the department. Each request submitted for the re-recordation of a plat shall be charged a processing fee as established by the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 5, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-41. - Exceptions.
When the director of the department finds that adherence to the address numbering standards, set forth in this article would pose a threat to public safety, deviations from the standard address numbering policies and procedures may be allowed.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 6, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-42. - Project names.
No new project names may be recorded, used or posted unless and until approved by the department. Duplication of project names is prohibited. The use of a project name that is a homonym, sounds like or may otherwise be confused with a project name that is already in use within the Fulton County Emergency Services Territory is prohibited.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 7, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-43. - Roadway names.
No new roadway name may be posted or used in an address unless and until approved by the department.
(1)
Roadway names must be reserved for use prior to the release of the land disturbance permit or minor plat.
(2)
Roadway names, once approved, shall be held in reservation for use by the owner/developer for a period not to exceed 36-months.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 8, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-44. - Standards for roadway names.
(a)
Duplication of roadway names is prohibited. No roadway name shall contain a number (e.g., 5th Street), and, except for suffixes, there shall be no punctuation or abbreviation allowed in any roadway name.
(b)
The use of the same roadway name that is already in use within the Fulton County Emergency Services Territory is prohibited.
(c)
Except to the extent that the department assigns a quadrant designation for inclusion in an address (e.g., "S.W."), the use of directions or compass points in roadway names is prohibited.
(d)
The use of a roadway name that is a homonym, sounds like or may otherwise be confused with a roadway name that is already in use within the Fulton County Emergency Services Territory is prohibited. Duplicate names with different suffixes should be limited within the same project whenever possible, subject to the review and approval of the department.
(e)
Each roadway, regardless of length, shall have only one name designation throughout its length. Each new roadway that is in alignment with an existing roadway shall bear the same name as said existing roadway.
(f)
No roadway shall be assigned the proper name, including first and last, of any person, living or dead, and/or assigned honorary names in such a way as to expressly violating standards of the Fulton County Ethics Ordinance without the consent and approval of the Fulton County Board of Commissioners.
(g)
No roadway name, including spaces between words and suffix, may be more than 12 letters in length, unless approved by the Fulton County Department of Public Works.
(h)
To the greatest extent feasible, roadways that cross into other jurisdictions shall be named and addressed consistently with the names and addresses assigned by such other jurisdictions.
(i)
Street signs, including street name signs, must be installed before any building permits are issued within a development, except that a bond may be offered to cover the costs of the signage, with an additional ten percent for administrative fees, and temporary signs erected to release building permits. Permanent signs must be installed prior to the release of any certificate of occupancy within the development.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 9, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-45. - Private roadway naming.
The following procedures and regulations are established for the mandatory and voluntary naming of private roadways, easements and drives.
(1)
A private roadway, easement or drive serving residential properties shall be required to be named and addressed if there are more than two principal buildings that are not part of a single tract of land which derive access from such private roadway, easement or drive.
(2)
If a private roadway, easement or drive requires naming pursuant to subsection (a), above, a petition, containing the signatures of at least 90 percent of the owners of all real property along such private roadway, easement or drive, must be submitted to the department. In addition to a request for approval, the petition shall include the proposed name for the private roadway, easement or drive that is acceptable to the petitioners. The proposed name shall conform to the other requirements of this article. The petition shall be accompanied by a general location map and the land lot(s), district, and section within which such private roadway, easement or drive is located.
(3)
Upon approval of a name for the private roadway, easement or drive, and prior to the issuance of any building permits or additional permits the petitioners, shall cause a roadway sign conforming to Fulton County Guidelines from the Sign Installation Policy in New Subdivision approved by the Fulton County Board of Commissioners on August 12, 2004, to be erected and maintained at each intersection of such private roadway, easement or drive and any adjacent Fulton County or state right-of-way. Maintenance of such roadway signs and private roadways, easements or drives shall be the responsibility of the owners of the real property situated along such private roadways, easements or drives; Fulton County shall have no responsibility for the erection and/or maintenance of these items.
(4)
In the event that the owners of the real property situated along a private roadway, easement or drive that requires a name, as set forth above, fail to initiate, respond to or participate in the naming procedure set forth above, the department, after due notice and a minimum 30-day grace period, shall recommend to the board of commissioners a name and address numbers for the private roadway, easement or drive and all real property located thereon. The property owners along such private roadway, easement or drive shall be responsible for the erection and maintenance of roadway signs, as set forth in subsection (3), above.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 10, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-46. - Changing of existing roadway names and addresses.
(a)
In any instance where the Fulton County Board of Commissioners, upon recommendation of the director of the department, determines that an existing road name may poses a threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the board of commissioners on its own motion may change such roadway name after notice is given and a public hearing is held.
(1)
Notice of the proposed change and hearing date shall be given at least 25 days, but no more than 45 days, prior to the scheduled date of the board of commissioners hearing on the proposed change.
(2)
The director of the department shall post a sign at approximately one mile intervals throughout the length of the roadway for which a name change is proposed and shall give notice by regular mail to the owners (according to the tax records of Fulton County) of each property which bears an address on the roadway for which a name change is proposed.
(3)
Such signs and notices shall contain the time, date, place and purpose of the hearing, as well as a statement of the beginning and ending points of the segment of the roadway for which the name change is proposed. Notice shall not be considered inadequate if the signs are removed or mail is not delivered.
(b)
Where the Fulton County Board of Commissioners, upon recommendation from the director of the department, determines that the existing address numbering on a particular roadway poses a threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the board of commissioners may change such address numbering after notice.
(1)
Notice of the change shall be given by regular mail to the owners (according to the tax records of Fulton County) of each property that bears an address on the roadway for which an address numbering change will occur.
(2)
Such notice shall contain the existing full address, the new address, the reason for the change, and the effective date of the change.
(3)
The effective date shall be no less than 30 or no more than 60 days following the date on which the matter is scheduled for decision by the board of commissioners. Notice shall not be considered inadequate if mail is not delivered.
(c)
When no more than ten percent of the existing addresses along a public or private roadway are deemed to pose a threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the director of the department may approve the change of such address numbering after notice is given by regular mail to the owners (according to the tax records of Fulton County) of each property that bears an address on the roadway for which an address numbering change will occur.
(1)
Such notice shall contain the existing full address, the new address, the reason for the change, and the effective date of the change.
(2)
These changes shall be considered effective at the time of the approval by the director, and shall be presented for ratification to the board of commissioners at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(3)
The effective date shall be no less than 30 or no more than 60 days following the date on which the matter is scheduled for decision by the board of commissioners. Notice shall not be considered inadequate if mail is not delivered.
(d)
No name of any commercial, office, industrial or residential development or subdivision shall be changed unless a request for such a change is first submitted to and approved by the department. In determining the acceptability of such a name change, the department shall seek to avoid confusion from similarly named developments.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 11, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-47. - Roadway and thoroughfare designation suffixes.
Any suffix accepted within the standards of the United States Postal Service, reflected in part in the lists provided by the National Emergency Number Association (NENA), shall be acceptable for naming roadways and thoroughfares within Fulton County. The following are examples of the most commonly used permitted suffixes in the naming of private and public roadways:
(1)
Avenue (to be abbreviated "Ave")
(2)
Bend (to be abbreviated "Bnd")
(3)
Boulevard (to be abbreviated "Blvd")
(4)
Circle (to be abbreviated "Cir")
(5)
Court (to be abbreviated "Ct")
(6)
Cove (to be abbreviated "Cv")
(7)
Drive (to be abbreviated "Dr")
(8)
Grove (to be abbreviated "Grv")
(9)
Hall (no abbreviation)
(10)
Highway (to be abbreviated "Hwy")
(11)
Hill (to be abbreviated "Hl")
(12)
Lane (to be abbreviated "Ln")
(13)
Loop (no abbreviation)
(14)
Parkway (to be abbreviated ("Pkwy")
(15)
Pass (no abbreviation)
(16)
Place (to be abbreviated ("Pl")
(17)
Point (to be abbreviated "Pt")
(18)
Ridge (to be abbreviated "Rdg")
(19)
Road (to be abbreviated "Rd")
(20)
Square (to be abbreviated "Sq")
(21)
Street (to be abbreviated "St")
(22)
Terrace (to be abbreviated "Ter")
(23)
Trace (to be abbreviated "Trce")
(24)
Trail (to be abbreviated "Trl")
(25)
View (to be abbreviated "Vw")
(26)
Walk (no abbreviation)
(27)
Way (no abbreviation)
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 12, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-48. - Street signs.
(a)
Each roadway intersection shall have a minimum of one street sign indicating the names of each roadway.
(b)
At each intersection of an arterial or major collector roadway and another roadway, the required sign(s) may also include numbering indicating addresses on the arterial or major collector roadway in the vicinity of the intersection.
(c)
Public streets shall be identified by a sign bearing white retro-reflective letters and a green retro-reflective background.
(d)
Private streets shall be identified by a sign bearing white retro-reflective letters and a blue retro-reflective background.
(e)
Private signage on a public street shall be allowed in accordance to the standards as established by the public works department pursuant to the completion and approval of an application entitled "Permit to Erect and Maintain Custom Street Signs on Fulton County's Right-of-Way".
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 13, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-49. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
This article shall be administered and enforced by the Fulton County Department of Environment and Community Development, with the assistance of the Fulton County Fire Department, the public works department, and the department of emergency services/911.
(b)
The director of the department of environment and community department the Fulton County Fire Chief, the director of the department of emergency services/911, and their representatives shall have the right to periodically inspect property within Fulton County for compliance with this article. If, through inspection, it is determined that a particular property is not in compliance with any provision of this article, the director of the department of environment and community development shall notify the owner (according to the tax records of Fulton County) of the property by regular mail of such violation and shall further give the owner a reasonable time (not less than 120 days) within which to cause the property to be brought into compliance with this article. In the event that such compliance is not effected within the time period set forth in the above notice, the owner shall be deemed in violation of this article. If any person other than the owner removes or damages an address number that is otherwise in compliance with this article without the permission of the property owner, or if any person removes or damages any public or private street sign, said person shall be deemed to have violated this article.
(c)
Only the director of the department of environment and community development, the director of the department of public works, and their representatives shall have the right to require that signs are installed and maintained on public roadways. Individuals or entities seeking to erect a sign for a private roadway shall obtain a custom sign permit from the department of public works engineering division.
(d)
The director of the department of environment and community development, the Fulton County Fire Chief, the director of the department of emergency services/911, and their representatives shall have the power to conduct such investigations as they may deem reasonably necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this article, and for this purpose shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purposes of investigation and inspecting such property for compliance with any or all provisions of this article.
(e)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of Fulton County who requests entry for the purposes of investigation and inspection and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper, or interfere with such representative or agent while he or she is in the process of carrying out his or her official duties.
(f)
Notwithstanding the contents of this article, the director may establish additional procedures or requirements as may be deemed necessary when to do so is determined to be in the best interest of the community and the provision of the general safety and welfare of the public.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 14, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-50. - Appeals.
Unless otherwise stated, all appeals to the standards as established herein shall be subject to the review and approval of the director of the environment and community development. The director may confer with the public works department or the department of emergency services/911 for consideration of the ramification such a waiver may have upon public safety.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 15, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-51. - Penalties.
(a)
Stop work orders. Upon notice from the director of the department, work that is being done on any subdivision, new development or other project (1) contrary to the provisions of this article, (2) without having first obtained approved roadway names and addresses from Fulton County, or (3) not in compliance with such approved roadways or addresses shall be immediately stopped. Such notice shall (1) be in writing, (2) shall be given to the owner of the property, his or her authorized agent, or the person or persons in charge of the activity on the property, and (3) shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
(b)
Violations. For purposes of enforcing the provisions of this article, the Magistrate Court of Fulton County, any other court of competent jurisdiction hearing cases brought as violations of the provisions of this article, or the Fulton County Board of Code Enforcement shall be authorized to impose penalties or fines not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation. Each day during which a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.
(c)
Lien power. In the event a property owner fails or refuses to correct a violation of this article within the time set forth in the written notice provided for in subsection 62-48(b) of this article, Fulton County shall be entitled to take such remedial action as it deems necessary to ensure compliance, whereupon the property owner shall reimburse Fulton County for any cost or expense associated with such compliance efforts. In the event that the property owner fails or refuses to make such reimbursement, Fulton County shall be entitled to place a lien on the property to secure payment and reimbursement for such costs and expenses.
(d)
Citation power. Persons designated by the director of the department and by the director of the department of public works are hereby authorized to issue citations or summons or both, charging violations under this article, returnable to the Magistrate Court of Fulton County or to any other court of competent jurisdiction, or to the Fulton County Board of Code Enforcement.
(Res. No. 05-0584, § 16, 5-18-05)
Secs. 62-52—62-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CURB CUTS

Sec. 62-71. - Violations of article; misdemeanor.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, take all necessary action to correct the violation and shall permanently cease such violations.
(b)
Any person who intentionally violates any provision of this article and who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for the satisfactory correction thereof, and any person who fails to cease all work after a stop order has been issued on a project, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which a violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be punished in the manner prescribed by law for misdemeanors, and shall further reimburse the county for any expenses, loss, or damage occasioned the county by reason of such violation.
(d)
Persons designated by the director of public works and/or director of inspections and permits are hereby authorized to issue citations or summonses, or both, charging violations under this article, returnable to the State Court of Fulton County, or to any other court having the jurisdiction of a commitment court throughout the entire county, for trial.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-47)
Sec. 62-72. - Inclusiveness of article regulations.
This article shall cover the location, width, frequency, and type of commercial and residential driveway entrances to Fulton County roadways.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-41)
Sec. 62-73. - Variances.
Whenever a property owner or developer can show that in every case strict application of this article would cause unnecessary or unreasonable hardship due to some unique requirement of the structure or activity made accessible by the proposed curb cuts, exceptions to this article may be granted by the public works department, provided:
(1)
The public interest, and particularly public safety, will not be violated; and
(2)
The rights of adjacent property owners or tenants will not be adversely affected.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-45)
Sec. 62-74. - Permit required.
No curb shall be cut, removed, or altered in any way for the purpose of constructing a driveway, nor may any driveway be constructed to the curbline, without first obtaining a permit to do so from the department of public works. The permit shall be issued only to the owner of the premises or his authorized agent. In all cases where the driveway is to be used by the public as in a business or commercial establishment, a plat or plan showing the proposed driveway shall be submitted to the public works department for examination and approval prior to issuing the permit. The plat shall be accurately drawn to scale, with all principal dimensions shown. The plat shall show the location of all existing curbs, sidewalks, storm drain inlets and pipes, sewer lines, streetlights, and all other public service and utility equipment, and trees and shrubs, in the right-of-way abutting the property. It shall also show the proposed location of all buildings, tanks, pump islands, and all other structures the applicant proposes to construct on the property, their dimensions, and their location relative to the street and property lines. The public works department may require any changes in the plan as may be necessary to conform with county specifications. When any provision of the resolution is in conflict with the provision of another county resolution, the more restrictive of the two shall control. The public works department may refuse to issue the permit in any case when the proposed curb cut clearly opposes the public interest.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-42)
Sec. 62-75. - Frequency, size and location.
(a)
Business and commercial.
(1)
The frequency and location of driveways for business and commercial establishments shall conform to the standards set forth in Fulton County's modifications to the GDOT Driveway Manual.
(2)
Curb cuts shall be not less than ten feet nor more than 30 feet in width at the right-of-way line. The curb cut for any one driveway shall not exceed 40 feet at the curbline.
(3)
The near side of a driveway shall in no case be less than five feet from the side property line at the right-of-way line.
(b)
Residential. Curb cuts in residential areas shall be installed according to the following guidelines for frequency, size, and location:
(1)
Not more than two private curb cuts may be located on any one street frontage for any one dwelling. Not more than one private curb cut may be located on any one street frontage for any one dwelling where the street is classified as a collector or higher order street.
(2)
If a lot has access to more than one frontage, it may not have any private curb cuts on a street that is classified as a collector or higher order street. If both frontages are classified as collector or higher order streets, then the curb cut may be on the frontage with the lowest classification, or as designated by the public works department.
(3)
Private curb cuts shall measure not less than 14 feet for single driveways and not more than 18 feet for driveways measured at the right-of-way line. When there are two curb cuts on any one street frontage, there shall be a safety zone between the cuts not less than ten feet, as measured along the curbline. In no case shall the curb cut be less than five feet from the side property line as measured along the right-of-way line. The curb cut shall not encroach upon the radius of the curb at a street corner.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-43; Res. No. 05-0596, 5-18-05)
Sec. 62-76. - Construction specifications.
(a)
For the construction of curb cuts, all types of curbs shall be cut to the edge of the pavement. No driveways shall be constructed over any type of curb. In no case shall any obstruction or material be placed in the gutter for use as a ramp, whether the cut be of a permanent or temporary type.
(b)
The angle of intersection of the axis of the driveway and the street shall not be less than 30 degrees.
(c)
Curb cuts shall be constructed with a five-foot flare as measured along the curbline of the street. The elevation of the pavement of the curb cut at the right-of-way line shall be four inches higher than the top of the curb, and the stub shall be on a uniform grade to the gutter line. If there is a paved sidewalk in place, the walkway shall be adjusted to meet the grade of the curb cut. The curb cut flares at the curbline shall be raised and contoured to blend smoothly into the street curb. All curb cut stubs shall be paved back at least as far as the right-of-way line to protect the street pavement. The pavement shall be of a rough or grainy surface for the safety of pedestrians.
(d)
The curb cut stub from the street pavement to the right-of-way line shall be either:
(1)
A minimum of six inches in depth of 3,000 psi concrete;
(2)
Six inches of crusher run base and one inch of plant mix asphalt topping; and
(3)
Six inches of black base and one inch of plant mix asphalt topping.
(e)
Whenever there is a public sidewalk adjacent to property upon which there is a proposed business establishment that will provide parking or drive-in service of any type, there shall be installed upon the property a curb not less than six inches high and six inches wide, located so as to prevent driving or stopping on the sidewalk by vehicles, and such that no part of a parked vehicle shall extend beyond the right-of-way line.
(f)
Equipment and construction shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from the right-of-way line. All equipment and construction shall be located so that no vehicle will be parked on the sidewalk or street at any time while being serviced.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-44)
Sec. 62-77. - Repair of improvements.
The owner of the property being improved or the applicant for the permit shall be responsible for the repair of and restoration of any county installation damaged during the process of the construction.
(Code 1983, § 28-2-46)
Secs. 62-78, 62-79. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RIGHTS-OF-WAY UTILIZATION AND ACCOMMODATION ORDINANCE

Sec. 62-80. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Fulton County Rights-of-Way Utilization and Accommodation Ordinance", and as Article IV, Chapter 62, Roads and Bridges, of the Code of Ordinances of Fulton County.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-81. - Enactment authority.
This article is enacted under the authority of Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph 1 (Home Rule for Counties) and Article 9, Section 2, Paragraph III (Supplementary Powers) of the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, as amended; O.C.G.A. § 32-4-41 et seq.; O.C.G.A. § 32-5-22.1; O.C.G.A. § 32-6-170 et seq.; O.C.G.A. § 32-9-2; and O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-82. - Purpose.
Fulton County desires to protect the health, safety and welfare of its citizen by ensuring that digging activities within county rights-of-way and public roads are conducted in the safest possible manner, and that utility contractors performing excavation or construction activities on behalf of utility facility operators or owners, or on behalf of any other entity: (1) Have sufficient bonding and insurance in place to fully cover all damages to county properties and other utilities, (2) provide conspicuous signage at the site of the individuals to contact in case of problems, (3) return the roads and rights-of-way to the equivalent pre-digging conditions, (4) encourage the coordination of digging activities with other utility contractors to minimize the number of excavation activities at the same location, (5) reimburse the county for any extraordinary inspection costs, and (6) provide other assurances.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-83. - Scope of ordinance.
The provisions of this article shall apply to unincorporated county and any other area within the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-84. - Non-application of this article; exceptions.
Nothing in this article is intended to repeal or affect the validity of chapter 76, "Telecommunications", or other regulations pertaining to cable systems, that are contained in the Fulton County Code of Ordinances. The provisions of this article shall not apply to any person, firm, or entity that is franchised by the board of commissioners to own and operate a cable television system under chapter 76 of the Fulton County Code of Ordinances. Such person, firm or entity granted a franchise by the county under chapter 76, as same is defined therein, shall be governed by chapter 76, and not by this article. However, where chapter 76 makes reference to the applicability of matters governed by this article, the provisions of this article shall control, but only to the extent of such reference.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-85. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
Authorized contractor means a person fully registered with the department of public works as meeting all requirements to conduct excavation or construction activity within the public right-of-way or public road.
Applicant means a person submitting all required information necessary for the department of public works to consider issuance of a permit to conduct excavation or construction activity within the public right-of-way or public road.
Business days means Monday through Friday, excluding the following holidays: New Year's Day, Birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and the following Friday, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day. Any such holiday that falls on a Saturday shall be observed on the preceding Friday. Any such holiday that falls on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday.
Business hours means the time from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. local time on business days.
Construction means the planning, location, surveying, designing, supervising, inspecting, paving, striping, modifying, grading, relocating, fixing, and the actual installation of a utility facility within the public road or public right-of-way.
County means the unincorporated areas of Fulton County, Georgia, and any division, department, agency, authority, instrumentality, or branch thereof, or the county governing authority, that is, the board of commissioners, county commissioner, county manager, director of public works or other county officers in charge of the roads, bridges, and revenues of the county.
Damage means any impact or exposure that results in the need to repair a utility facility due to the weakening or the partial or complete destruction of the facility including, but not limited to, the protective coating, lateral support, cathodic protection, or the housing for the line, device, or facility.
Director or director of public works means the county's director of public works or designee or authorized representative, and the department of public works
Emergency means a sudden or unforeseen occurrence involving a clear and imminent danger to life, health, or property; the interruption of utility services; or repairs to transportation facilities that require immediate action.
Emergency notice means a communication to the utilities protection center to alert the involved facility owners or operators of the need to excavate due to an emergency that requires immediate excavation.
Excavating means any operation by which the level or grade of land is changed or earth, rock, or other material below existing grade is moved and includes, without limitation, grading, trenching, digging, ditching, augering, scraping, directional boring, and pile driving. Such term, however, does not include routine road surface scraping maintenance. "Excavating" shall not mean routine roadway maintenance activities carried out by employees of the Georgia Department of Transportation and the county department of public works, acting within the scope of their employment, provided such activities occur entirely within the right-of-way of a public road, street, or highway of the state are carried out with reasonable care so as to protect any utility facilities placed in the right-of-way by permit are carried out within the limits of any original excavation on the traveled way, shoulders, or drainage features of a public road, street, or highway, and do not exceed 18 inches in depth below the grade existing prior to such activities and, if involving the replacement of existing structures, replace such structures in their previous locations and at their previous depth.
Excavator means any person engaged in excavating as defined in this section.
Extraordinary circumstances means circumstances other than normal operating conditions which exist and make it impractical or impossible for a facility owner or operator to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Such extraordinary circumstances may include, but shall not be limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, ice and snow, and acts of God.
Governing authority means Fulton County ("county"), its board of commissioners, and where delegated by the board of commissioners, the directors of the county's department of public works, and the county's police department.
Permit means an authorization which grants permission to conduct specific regulated activities on, in, over, under or within the public right-of-way, and which is subject to the conditions set forth in this article and the permit document.
Permittee means any person who is issued a valid permit by the county public works director or his designee.
Person means an individual, firm, joint venture, partnership, association, municipality, political subdivision, state, or other governmental unit, authority, department, agency, or a corporation and shall include any trustee, receiver, assignee, employee, agent, or personal representative thereof.
Private road means a privately owned road or way, including any bridge thereon, which is only open for the benefit of one or more individuals and not for the general public. This term also means a road which lies on privately owned land.
Protective devices means cones, flashing light signals, and similar devices or combinations thereof, together with necessary appurtenances, to be placed or in operation at a work site and which comply with the safety standards determined by the department as being adequate at that time for the protection of traffic.
Public road means a highway, road, street, avenue, toll road, tollway, drive, detour, or other way open to the public and intended or used for its enjoyment and for the passage of vehicles in the county, including but not limited to the following public rights, structures, sidewalks, facilities, and appurtenances incidental to the construction, maintenance, and enjoyment of such rights-of-way: (a) Surface, shoulders, and sides; (b) bridges; (c) causeways; (d) viaducts; (e) overpasses; (f) underpasses; (g) railroad grade crossings; (h) tunnels; (i) signs, signals, markings, or other traffic control devices; (j) wayside parks; (k) parking facilities; (l) drainage ditches; (m) canals and culverts; and (n) scenic easements and easements of light, air, view, and access.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway.
Public right-of-way means generally property or any interest therein, whether or not in the form of a strip, which is acquired for or devoted to a public road.
Residential area means adjacent property along a public road or public right-of-way that is being used primarily for residential purposes.
Scenic easement means a servitude devised to permit land to remain in private ownership for its normal agricultural, residential, or other use consistent with public road purposes, but at the same time placing a control over the future uses of the area to maintain its scenic landscape, sightly, or safety values for the public road which the land adjoins.
Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Utility means any publicly, privately, or cooperatively owned line, facility, or system for producing, transmitting, or distributing communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil products, water, steam, clay, waste, stormwater not connected with highway drainage, and other similar services and commodities, including publicly owned fire and police traffic signals and street lighting systems, which directly or indirectly serve the public. This term also means a person, municipal corporation, county, state agency, or public authority which owns, manages or operate a utility as defined in this paragraph.
Utility facility owner or operator means any person or entity who owns, operates, or controls the operation of a utility facility, as defined in this article.
Utilities protection center or center means the corporation or other organization formed by facility owners or operators to provide a joint telephone number notification service for the purpose of receiving advance notification from persons planning to blast or excavate and distributing such notifications to its affected facility owner or operator members.
Utility facility means an underground or submerged conductor, pipe, or structure used in providing electric or communications service, or an underground or submerged pipe used in carrying, providing, or gathering gas, oil or oil products, sewage, wastewater, storm drainage, water or other liquids, and appurtenances thereto. This does not include utility facilities owned by a homeowner for service at the homeowner's residence.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-86. - Fulton County utility accommodations guidelines and procedures manual.
Through passage of this ordinance, the board of commissioners adopts the "Fulton County Utility Accommodations Guidelines and Procedures Manual", (the "manual") and all rules, regulations, procedures, plans and specifications contained therein. The director of public works shall be responsible for the promulgation of the manual and its contents. The manual shall be reviewed, at least annually, and updated as necessary to reflect the most current rules, regulations and practices and shall conform to the state's 1988 Utility Accommodation Policy Standards Manual, promulgated by the State Department of Transportation, as same may be amended from time to time by the state, in order to reflect changes in acceptable design standards and materials, and to reflect current construction costs. The director of public works will ensure that the contents of the manual are equivalent to, but is not more restrictive than the regulations promulgated by Georgia Department of Transportation Utility Accommodation Policy and Standards, 1988 edition, as same may be amended from time to time.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-87. - Permits required for installation or excavation in rights-of-way and roads; no property interest in location of utility facility.
Before installing or relocating any utility facility which may occupy or encroach on the right-of-way acquired for county projects, or which is part of the county road system, the utility owner and/or contractor must obtain authorization from the county department of public works. For all initial installation a written permit will be executed. Also, for relocation or adjustment of utility facilities for which a written permit has not previously been issued, and which are not covered by an indemnity agreement, a permit will be executed. Except as may be provided by state or federal laws, placement of a utility facility within the public rights-of-way or public roads shall not be deemed to give any person a property or other interest in any particular location within the public rights-of-way or public roads, or any preference over any other person issued a permit to utilize the public rights-of-way or public roads. The county reserves the right to designate where a particular utility facility may be located for the purposes of protecting current or future use of its public roads to promote the public health, safety or welfare.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-88. - Permittee's adherence to other applicable laws.
The provisions of this article are in addition to those set forth in O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq., as same may be amended from time to time.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-89. - Authority to issue and regulate permits delegated to the director of public works.
The authority to issue and regulate permits for installation or excavation activities within public rights-of-way and public roads are hereby delegated to the director of public works or his designee.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-90. - Permits for installation or excavation in rights-of-way and roads; exception for state projects.
Permit required. All utility owners shall apply for and obtain a written permit from the department of public works before installing or making substantial changes to any utility facility located within the public right-of-way or within a public road or sidewalk. Such utility owner shall make application for a permit to the director of public works. The director of public works shall have the authority to impose such permit terms and conditions necessary to protect the public health and safety, and the permittee shall comply with all terms and conditions imposed by the director of public works including the right to maintain a register of authorized contractors. Only authorized contractors shall engage in permitted activities in the rights-of-way. However, where the Georgia Department of Transportation has primary permitting authority over a particular installation or construction activity, the permittee may show a copy of the GDOT permit and shall not be required to obtain a permit from the county.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-91. - Issuance of permit; allocation of costs; time limits.
(a)
Issuance. All applications for all permits for installation, or excavation pursuant to this article shall be reviewed by the department of public works, and if the application is complete and the permittee is in compliance with all requirements of this article, to the extent practicable, the county shall issue a permit within 20 days of receipt of the last application and notice to all parties; provided that all joint application permits for installation or excavation by two or more persons shall be expedited, and if in compliance with all requirements of this article, shall if practicable, be approved by the director of public works within ten days of receipt of such applications. No permit shall issue unless sufficient space is available so that the free flow and safety of roadway traffic is not unduly impaired and the utility installation does not prevent the county from reasonably maintaining the roads, structures, traffic control devices and other appurtenant facilities, and do not jeopardize the traffic or roadway structure or the maintenance thereof.
(b)
Denial of a permit; option to require cash bond or letter of credit.
(1)
Person conducting work. The director of public works shall grant no permit where the applicant has failed to comply with the terms of a prior permit or conducted prior work without a permit, and where such failure was previously documented in writing and delivered to the violator. It shall be within the reasonable discretion of the director of public works to decline a permit to any person who shall have failed to carry out any prior order or instruction of the director of public works in connection with the opening of a public road or sidewalk at any time. It shall be within the director's reasonable discretion to consider mitigation factors submitted by the applicant pertaining to past conduct or omission. In exercising his discretion whether to grant a permit to a company which had conducted prior construction activity without a permit or a company that violated the terms of a prior permit, the director may require cash deposit or an irrevocable letter of credit from a qualified financial institution, securing the compliance of the terms of this article and the faithful performance of the obligations of the party conducting construction or excavation activities within the public right-of-way or public road. The amount of irrevocable letter of credit or cash deposit shall be determined by the director in an amount deemed best protect the public safety and welfare. The deposit shall be placed in an interest bearing account. The letter of credit or cash deposit is in addition to the performance bond and insurance required by this article. The director of public works may demand payment from the institution that issued the letter of credit for a violating party or make deductions from the cash deposit, as applicable to offset the costs of, among other things, the repair, excavations or work performed by the department of public works, or to pay any assessed penalties or costs associated with violations of this article. Where practicable, the county shall provide the permittee with ten days advance written notice of a deduction from the deposit. The letter of credit or cash deposit shall be maintained until satisfactory completion of permitted activity.
(2)
Person on whose behalf work is being conducted. The director of public works may, in the director's discretion, decline to grant a permit if the director determines that the permit will not be in the public interest, with such factor to be considered to include, but not limited to, whether space is available for the utility. The responsibility shall be upon the director of public works to see that no permit is granted to any person to open any public road or sidewalk where the results to be accomplished under the permit will unreasonably interfere with the use of the public road or sidewalk.
(3)
Reason for denial must be provided. If the permit is denied, the reason for the denial shall be furnished in writing to the applicant, as soon as possible, but no later than 20 days upon submittal of the application.
(c)
Appeals from denial of permit issuance; judicial review. A person may appeal the denial of a permit to the county manager. The person shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to offer evidence in support of the appeal. The county manager shall act on the appeal and issue a final decision within 30 days of receipt of the written appeal. The decision of the county manager shall be final. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the county manager's denial of a permit, after having pursued the appeal process of this subsection, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the Superior Court of Fulton County.
(d)
No permit fee; reimbursement costs only. There shall be no charge for the issuance of the permit. The applicant shall reimburse the county for any reasonable and necessary expense, including, but not limited to, extraordinary inspection services incurred by county in connection with the utility or work authorized by the permit. The reimbursement to the county shall be made by the applicant within 30 days after receiving a invoice or statement from the director. The applicant, upon notification in writing by the director, shall pay a reasonable market price for any material removed from the right-of-way or public road or destroyed as a result of the work authorized by the permit. Such payment shall be within 30 days of receipt of the statement from the director.
(e)
Cost of permitted work. The entire cost of installing, maintaining, repairing, operating, using the utility, or any other expense whatsoever incidental to the work authorized by the permit, shall be borne by the applicant. All costs associated with conducting excavation or construction activities within the public right-of-way or public road, including the making and refilling any opening or replacing any permanent improvement shall, be borne by the utility facility operator or owner at whose request such opening is made. If work is performed by the county on behalf of or at the request of a utility facility owner or operator, all charges therefore shall be in such amounts as may be fixed by the director of public works, subject to the approval of the board of commissioners, except in emergency or unusual circumstances in order to protect the health and safety of the public or county or other public facilities, and with such cost to be fully reimbursed to the county. The director of public works shall, likewise in each case, estimate the cost of replacing permanent improvements and shall have authority to replace or require the replacement of all of a sidewalk or public road when it is necessary to put the sidewalk or public road in as good condition using materials of equal or better quality as before the excavation or opening. All such cost, whether computed from a schedule fixed by the director of public works or embodied in an estimate made under this article by the director of public works, shall be paid before the work is done by the county or the permit is granted, except in emergency circumstances.
(f)
Permit maintained on-site. The permit granted by the director of public works to conduct activities within the public rights-of-way or public road or sidewalk, shall be maintained on the work site and displayed to any official of the department of public works, police, or other county official upon request.
(g)
Signage. In order to identify the work during installation, the permittee shall place a card, or signs, on the public road near the work before beginning the work authorized by the permit. The sign shall be visible from the traveled way and shall be placed not less that six feet above the ground and at least one per mile. The sign or signs will be furnished to the applicant by the department of public works along with the approved permit.
(h)
Effective period of permit. If work begins within 12 months after issuance, and unless otherwise provided in the manual, the permit shall be in effect for an indefinite period of time from and after the date issued, unless sooner revoked by mutual consent or by the director for failure of the applicant to abide by the terms and conditions of the permit or by operation of law. A permit is automatically revoked when the activity for which the permit is issued ceases or is abandoned.
(i)
Notice of work beginning. Permittee shall notify the department of public works in writing at least 24 hours before starting any work under the permit. Permittee must present its work schedule and plan for traffic control for approval of the director or designee.
(j)
Notice of work completion. Permittee shall notify the department of public works when the work authorized by the permit is completed so that an inspection can be made by the department of public works to ensure that the provisions of the permit have been met and that all areas within the right-of-way or public road have been adequately restored.
(k)
Time limit on beginning work. If the applicant fails to commence installation of the utility facility or other miscellaneous activity covered by the permit within 12 months from the date the permit is issued, said permit shall be deemed null and void and all privileges thereunder forfeited, unless a written extension is obtained from the director.
(l)
Working without a permit. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article to perform any of the activities relegated by this article within the public rights-of-way or public roads, without complying with the permit requirements promulgated by the department of public works or of this article. If any person commences any excavation or construction work, excluding emergencies as defined in this article, within the public rights-of-way or public roads without a permit, the person shall be in violation of this article and subject to all remedies available to the county, including, but not limited to, to the immediate cessation of all activities and removal of all equipment for the public road or right-of-way.
(m)
Signed application/indemnification agreement required. The director of public works shall not grant any permit to conduct construction or installation activities within the public right-of-way or for an excavation underneath sidewalks or public roads for any purpose, unless the application for that use in each instance is signed by the utility facility operator or owner of the proposed utility facility, who shall enter into an indemnification agreement with the county binding the utility facility operator or owner and the operator or owner's successor in title. The utility facility operator or owner shall agree to indemnify the county, it officers, employees and agents from any and all claims, litigation or damages to either persons or property, both public and private, caused by the installation, construction or maintenance of the excavation or opening and shall agree that the director of public works shall have the right to have said excavation closed and filled at any time the director of public works determines and the owner and/or its excavator/agent shall vacate the area beneath the public right-of-way, public road, or sidewalk when requested to do so by the county without cost to the county.
(n)
Supervision of work. All such excavations or openings, except as provided in this article for emergency work, shall be made and refilled and permanent improvements removed shall be replaced by or under the supervision of the director of public works or his/her designee. The work in each instance shall be done under the supervision and to the satisfaction of the director of public works. Any person violating this section shall be required to close the excavation or opening and remove any obstructions upon the direction of the director of public works. If such notice is not complied with, such encroachment shall be removed by the director of public works at the utility facility operator's or owner's expense.
(o)
Conditions of maintaining a permit.
(1)
The director of public works is authorized to establish and publish a list of conditions and requirements for all construction, repair, maintenance, and other activities within the public right-of-way and public road, including, among other things, the power to establish, from time-to-time the reasonable cost of reimbursable fees not inconsistent with this article. Said conditions shall contain, but shall not be limited to:
a.
Utility operator's or owner's providing a notice of any other known utility facilities at the described location which may be impacted by the work proposed under the permit and the date of the proposed work;
b.
Traffic protection plan;
c.
Emergency plan;
d.
Clear identification of all construction and maintenance sites, vehicles, metal plates and other obstacles with the name and phone number of the utility owner and the person performing the work;
e.
Construction plans to show length of cut, construction activity to install the equipment, size, type and location of utilities in the rights-of-way and technical specifications for road rehabilitation;
f.
Placement of warning signs identifying construction and excavation-site;
g.
Replacement of decorative sidewalk style and material;
h.
Coordination of excavation and paving activities between and among any persons;
i.
Placement and removal of paint markings for utility locations;
j.
Bonds, insurance and other financial protection for the county;
k.
As-built plans and drawings in a form specified by the department of public works. Permittee shall not be required to supply proprietary or trade secret information. No person shall artificially underestimate the size of their proposed system to evade the purpose of this article;
l.
Permittee shall provide to the department of public works a list identifying all subcontractors used by a permittee on a construction or excavation project. The list shall include the name and telephone number of the subcontractors; and
m.
Any other requirements, limitations, or conditions that the director of public works may deem necessarily and proper.
(p)
Maintenance work. Permittee shall at all times keep utility facilities authorized by the permit in a good state of repair from the standpoint of both structure and appearance. The director may revoke the permit and order removal of any utility facilities which become a hazard to the public or the roadway due to improper maintenance. The utility shall give 24-hours advance notice to the department of public works before undertaking any of the following maintenance activities within the county's right-of-way or public road:
(1)
Any work which requires the blocking of one or more traffic lanes for a period of time in excess of two hours.
(2)
Installation of any temporary structures which are to remain on the right-of-way.
(3)
The cutting, trimming or spraying of any trees or shrubs within the right-of-way.
(4)
Making any pavement cut except in an emergency.
(5)
Making any excavation within the roadbed which may remain open overnight.
(q)
Restoration of the right-of-way and public road. Upon the determination by the director of public works that all construction and excavation activity in the right-of-way or public road has ceased, within 48 hours of such determination, the utility facility operator or owner or their agent shall begin to restore the right-of-way or public road to its pre-construction condition, or to the condition determined by the public works director to meet county specification. The restoration of the right-of-way or public road shall include: The repaving of all roads and sidewalks, removal of temporary utility markings, the removal of all barricades, metal plates, temporary devices, obstructions, surplus excavation material and the restoration of the appropriate vegetation. However, trees and shrubs should be planted during the appropriate season, and reasonable accommodations shall be made for such, including payment to the county in an amount sufficient to replace the trees and shrubs. All restoration shall be completed within 15 business days after the end of construction or excavation activity. Failure to comply with this section will subject all persons to the maximum penalties as set forth in section 62-104 of this article.
(r)
Safety barriers; notice. It shall be the duty of all persons doing any kind of non-emergency work in the public roads of the county, such as paving, laying sewers, sidewalks and curbing, moving buildings or any other work that in any way obstructs free passage thereon to notify the director of public works at least 24 hours before the work is commenced and on its completion. It shall be the duty of the director of public works to see that this section is enforced, both as to the erection of barriers or enclosures and as to travel on the street by vehicles or otherwise during the time prohibited.
(s)
Performance bond. Persons performing construction or excavation work in the public right-of-way or public road shall, prior to initiating the construction or excavation work, provide to the county a performance and completion bond in the amount determined by either the county's risk manager or director of public works, to be adequate to either complete the proposed work impacting the public right-of-way or public road in its entirety or to restore the public right-of-way or public road to its preconstruction condition if the person fails to complete the work to the satisfaction of the director of public works. No work shall commence under the permit until the bond has been submitted to and approved by the director of public works or designee.
(t)
Insurance. The county's risk manager shall require the person conducting construction activities or excavation work within the public rights-of-way or public roads to obtain a policy of public liability and property damage insurance and affording coverage of not less than $200,000.00 for property damage resulting from a single occurrence, and $1,000.000.00 for the death or injury of any person, subject to a limit of $2,000,000.00 for injuries or death resulting from any single occurrence. The insurance policy or policies shall be with an insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, to protect the county from liability claims arising out of the permitted construction or excavation activities. These insurance requirements may be met by evidence of self-insurance, or any bona fide captive insurance or self insurance program acceptable to the county. A copy of the policy or policies, or certificate evidencing same, shall be submitted to the director of public works, and must be approved by him or the county's risk manager or his designee, before any work is commenced under the permit.
(u)
Guarding of temporary excavations. All persons conducting construction or excavation in any public road, sidewalk or public right-of-way for any purpose shall erect around the construction of excavation work, a fence or barrier adequate to protect the public from the excavation or construction work. When the excavation or construction is being performed across the sidewalk or at a place used by pedestrians, a bridge shall be erected over the excavation or construction work sufficient for the safe passage of the public. All construction or excavation activity shall be properly lighted at night as determined by the director of public works. The guarding and protection of excavations or construction work shall be in accordance with state law and with specifications promulgated by the director of public works and as set forth in the county's utility accommodations guidelines and procedures manual, on file in the office of the director of public works.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-92. - Revocation of permit; administrative appeal.
A permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the director of public works, upon a finding that the permittee is not in compliance with the permit conditions or any provision of this article. Where possible, the violator will be afforded a reasonable opportunity to cure the violation before such revocation, suspension, or modification become effective. The permittee may pursue an appeal to the county manager in the manner provided in subsection 62-91(c).
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-93. - Utility markings.
(a)
Temporary markings. Prior to any utility construction, excavation or repair that may damage other utilities located in the public right-of-way, persons performing construction or excavation activities shall perform such work in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 25-9-1 et seq., or any other applicable laws or regulations, and shall, to the extent authorized by law, locate and mark the location of all existing utilities, or ensure that such location and marking has taken place prior to commencing the work. Upon the completion of all construction activities, all temporary utility location markings that are not water soluble shall be removed by the permittee or its agents.
(b)
Permanent pavement marker. All permanent utility markers in the public right-of-way or public road shall: Identify the owner of such utility facility, be no larger than three inches in diameter, installed flush with the pavement, and constructed with such material that in the event of failure, will not create a public safety hazard.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-94. - Time limitations for construction or excavation in residential areas or major connectors or arterials.
The director of public works shall restrict all construction or excavation activity within the public right-of-way or public roads located within residential areas, except for work performed from dawn until dusk or during the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m, whichever will ensure the safety and welfare of the public. The director shall ensure that all permits issued for work in residential areas shall contain the above restrictions. The director of public works also has the discretion to limit the hours of construction or other activities within a major connector or arterial in order to ensure the public welfare.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-95. - Pedestrian access.
(a)
Where it is necessary to close a portion of the pedestrian public right-of-way, only the minimum necessary width of the right-of-way shall be obstructed so as to leave a safe, passable thoroughfare not less than four feet in width, and providing appropriate access at and between intersections in accordance with the Americans With Disabilities Act (the "ADA") standards, and separated from the construction area by adequate safety barriers as approved by the director of public works.
(b)
Where it is not possible to provide access via method (a) above, a temporary pedestrian route shall be erected utilizing a combination of the existing sidewalk, the adjacent parking lane, and/or the adjacent vehicular traffic lane at the discretion of the director of public works. Where a traffic or parking lane is used, appropriate barricades and signage shall be utilized to separate the pedestrian lane from the vehicular lane and the route shall be accessible as per the guidelines of the ADA.
(c)
Where the party seeking the permit has shown due diligence to perform either (a) or (b), of this section and are unable to do so due to the structural necessities of the work to be completed, proper signage must be provided at each pedestrian-accessible intersection, between which lies the permitted closure or obstruction, directing pedestrian traffic to cross to the other side of the street. Signage must be visible to pedestrian traffic both on the side of the street with the obstruction and to pedestrian traffic at intersections with access to the segment of the sidewalk containing the permitted obstruction.
(d)
The director of public works is prohibited from accepting, as reason for an inability to comply with items (a), (b), or (c) of this section, that the pedestrian right-of-way must be closed due to a need for vehicular parking on the site of the work being performed necessitating the closure.
(e)
All walkways mandated by this section, shall be maintained by the permittee, and any damage, or obstructions to this temporary right-of-way shall be repaired and cleared immediately by that party. Permittee is required to display the permit in a conspicuous place so that the public and inspectors can visibly see it.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-96. - Scheduling and coordination of excavation.
(a)
Twelve month plans; proprietary information. In order to facilitate an interactive planning process, persons desiring to excavate or make an opening, in the public right-of-way or public road, as part of the compliance requirement for any permit issued, shall submit a quarterly plan in a format acceptable to the director of public works that show all major excavation work anticipated to be done in the public right-of-way or public road for the next 12 months. The plan shall include a method of excavation designed to protect to the maximum extent possible, the existing infrastructure and minimize the interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic plans may be revised and updated from time to time by such person. The person submitting the plans shall mark such plans as proprietary, or trade secrets and the plans will be protected from disclosure by the county, to the extent permitted by law. Should any third party seek access to the information submitted, the county shall notify the entity submitting the quarterly plan of the request and afford such submitting entity the ability to seek intervention of the courts to prevent disclosure. This requirement shall not impose any requirement on any person desiring to cut a street to disclose confidential business information. This 12-month plan shall not require persons to disclose information on lateral construction marked protected. In addition, this information is only an estimate and will only be used for general location of construction or excavation activities of the person and no liability shall be incurred due to or on account of the submission of such projection.
(b)
Coordination of 12-month plans. The director of public works shall review all 12-month plans on file in order to identify conflicts and opportunities for coordination of activities. The director shall notify persons with a 12-month plan on file of such conflicts to the extent possible to maximize coordination of major excavation work and to avoid unnecessary and repeated excavations in a public road or public right-of-way. All persons shall coordinate, to the extent possible, major excavation with other potentially affected persons to minimize disruption of the county's public rights-of-way and public roads. The department of public works may schedule monthly meetings with persons who desire to work in the rights-of-way or public roads for the purpose of reviewing submitted as-built plans as required in section 62-91. Persons who seek to perform excavation activities in the right-of-way or public road shall be required to attend such meetings. Failure to attend such meetings shall subject all persons to revocation or suspension of permits or the issuance of a stop work order.
(c)
Persons participating in joint excavation. The permit holder shall be deemed the lead person on the joint excavation. In addition, the permit shall list the names of all persons participating in the joint excavation.
(d)
Department of public works repaving schedule. In March of every year, the director of public works shall prepare for public inspection, a preliminary 12-month repaving plan showing anticipated and proposed resurfacing and repaving of the public right-of-way or public road. Upon completion, such 12-month repaving plan shall be provided to every person with a 12-month plan on file with the department of public works. The director of public works will update such plan as appropriate and provide a copy to the persons referenced in the preceding sentence.
(e)
Industry meetings. The persons subject to this article will use their best efforts to conduct industry meetings on a regular basis to try and better coordinate excavation activities. The department of public works may participate in these industry meetings and endeavor to coordinate major excavation work of the county and the industry.
(f)
Good faith efforts. Persons subject to this article will use good faith efforts to conduct joint excavation activities subject to technical, economic and competitive considerations. Joint applications shall be approved in an expedited manner and be given high priority. Any joint application shall identify the lead person responsible for the requested permitted activity. The lead person will coordinate the activities of the other persons participating in the joint project. As an incentive, to encourage joint excavation activities, the county shall implement expedited permit procedures.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-97. - Rehabilitation and restoration of the pavement.
Whenever any person desires to excavate or make an opening in any public road or public right-of-way, such person shall repair and restore the public street or public right-of-way, including milling and resurfacing, to the specifications of the department of public works.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-98. - Availability of material and equipment before starting work.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for a person to tear up or interfere with the pavement upon a public road, public right-of-way, or sidewalk unless, immediately prior to the time the person commences the work, the person has sufficient material and equipment immediately available with which to carry out the paving proposed and the director of public works is satisfied that this section has been complied with. If the director of public works determines that the person has not complied with this section, the director shall refuse to allow the public road, public right-of-way, or sidewalk to be torn up or interfere with, nor work be allowed until the person complies with this section.
(b)
Responsibility for damages. Any and all damages to a public road or public right-of-way, on either level, or damage to bridge, viaduct or tunnel structures caused by a person working within the public right-of-way or public road, must be repaired immediately at no cost to the county and to the satisfaction of the director of public works.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-99. - Emergency excavations.
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent any person from taking any action reasonably necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the restoration of interrupted service provided by a utility facility operator or owner when such necessity arises during days or times when the department of public works is closed. In the event that any person takes any action to excavate or cause to excavate the public right-of-way pursuant to this section, such person shall notify the department of public works as soon as possible or within hour of becoming aware of the need for emergency action, whichever is lesser. If the emergency takes place during non-business hours, the person shall notify the department of public works within one hour of the time county offices are first opened. The person shall submit a written statement of the basis of the emergency action and described excavation performed and any work remaining to be performed. Persons determined by the director of public works to have conducted work where an emergency situation did not exist shall be deemed to be in violation of this article and subject to enforcement action authorized by this article. Persons conducting emergency excavations pursuant to this section shall prominently display a notice of such emergency activity.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-100. - Relocation of utility facility.
The county shall have superior rights to the use of its public roads and public right-of-way. The county reserves the right to perform any public works or public improvement necessary to maintain its public roads and public right-of-way. The county may therefore, upon written request to a permittee, require the relocation of a utility facility which is physically within the public right-of-way or public road and in conflict with proposed construction improvements by the county or its agents. Such relocation shall be at the permittee's sole expense when the relocation is necessary to improve or maintain the public road or public right-of-way for transportation uses, or where in the director of public work's sound discretion, the utility facility constitutes an obstruction or interference with the safe use or safe operation of such public road or public right-of-way by the traveling public.
(1)
Notification; failure to remove. Whenever the department of public work determines, in its sound discretion, that it is necessary to have a utility facility removed and relocated, the department of public works shall give the utility facility's owner or operator 60 days written notice directing the removal and relocation of such utility obstruction. Upon receiving written notice from the county to remove, or relocate facilities which are using or occupying a public right-of-way which the county has to improve, the permittee shall, within 60 days thereafter, begin arrangements for said removal or relocation in accordance with said written notice from the county. Should the utility facility's owner or operator fail to comply with such notice within a reasonable time sufficient to allow for procedures reasonably necessary for the removal and relocation of the facilities, the county may give the permittee a final notice directing that such removal begins not later than ten days from the receipt of such final notice.
(2)
Removal or relocation of facilities by the county. If the utility facility's owner or operator refuses or neglects to relocate said facilities existing in the public right-of-way within ten days of receipt of such final notice, or if an emergency affecting public safety or health exists requiring immediate relocation of the utility facilities, to the extent not inconsistent with state and federal law, the county may relocate such facilities by its own forces or by contract with any entity and the utility facility's owner or operator shall pay to the county the reasonable costs incurred in connection with such relocation.
(3)
Payment for relocation by county. Should the county incur any expense in the relocation of any utility facility under this section, a statement of such expenses shall be submitted to the utility facility's owner or operator, which shall make payment to the county. In the event the utility facility's owner or operator does not make payment or arrange to make payment to the county within 60 days after receipt of such statement, the department of public works shall certify the amount for collection by the county attorney.
(4)
Removal or relocation of facilities for aesthetic purposes. If the relocation of facilities in the right-of-way or public road is for aesthetic purposes or purposes not related to improving the public right-of-way for transportation purposes or to maintain the public right-of-way for health or safety reasons, then the cost of such relocation shall be borne by the requesting third party and not by the county or the utility facility's owner or operator.
(5)
Removal or relocation of facilities by an act of God. If an act of God necessitates the relocation of a utility facility located in the public rights-of-way or public road, the cost of such relocation shall not be borne by the utility facility's owner or operator.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-101. - Stop work order.
Upon written notice from the director of public works, or his or her designees or employees and all police and code enforcement personnel—who shall have such powers as are reasonably necessary to monitor, enforce and give effect to this article—that construction or excavation work within the public right-of-way or public road, or any work that impacts these public areas, are being performed contrary to, or are in violation of the provisions of this article, or is being done in a dangerous or unsafe manner, shall be immediately stopped. The notice shall be in writing and delivered to the on-site authorized representative or his designee of the person performing the excavation or construction work. The notice shall state the conditions pursuant to which the work can resume. Upon receipt of a stop work order, the person conducting the work shall utilize appropriate measures to secure and safeguard the site and equipment and to protect the health and safety of public.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-102. - Emergency stop work order.
Nothing in this article shall prevent the director of public works or his designee to order the stoppage of all work within the public right-of-way or public road where the director or his designee determines that an emergency exists. Emergencies include, but are not limited to, factors that pose a danger to the public health, safety, and well being of persons or property, including the public right-of-way. In such instances, no written stop work order shall be required. Only work necessary to secure and safeguard the site and equipment is permissible subsequent to the emergency stop work order. Within a reasonable time of the emergency stop work order, the director of public works or his designee shall provide a written basis for the emergency work stoppage and include therein, the conditions under which the work may resume.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-103. - Enforcement.
Unless otherwise provided, the enforcement of this article shall be within the jurisdiction of the county's enforcement personnel, including the director of public works or his or her designees or employees and all police and code enforcement personnel who shall have such powers as are reasonably necessary to monitor, enforce and give effect to this article. Specifically, but not by way of limitation, any violation of this article may be tried upon citations issued by enforcement personnel pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63 and any successor statute. Persons designated by the director of public works or as otherwise designated by the county manager, are hereby authorized to issue citations or summons or both, charging violations under this article, returnable to Fulton County Magistrate Court, or any other court having jurisdiction of a commitment court throughout the entire county, for a hearing. For purposes of enforcing the provisions of this article, the Fulton County Magistrate Court, including the environmental court, shall be entitled to take action to ensure compliance.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-104. - Violations of article; civil remedies; criminal penalties; restitution.
Upon a determination that a person is in violation of this article the violator shall be subject to one or more of the penalties:
(1)
Civil action. In addition to the criminal penalties set forth in subsection (1), the county shall have the right to enjoin any act or omission in violation of this article that is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(2)
Criminal penalties. A court of competent jurisdiction is authorized to find the violations of this article for which a specific penalty is not provided, to be a misdemeanor, and any person found guilty thereof shall be punished for a misdemeanor as provided by law.
(3)
Restitution. In addition to the penalties imposed in subsections (1) and (2), a person violating any provision of this article, shall be responsible for the cost incurred by the county to repair any damage to the county water or sewer facility resulting from any violation.
(4)
Additional penalties. The imposition of any of the foregoing penalties shall not prevent revocation or suspension of a permit by other administrative sanctions or any other relief that may be granted under law.
(5)
Continuous and repeated violations.
a.
Violations of this article that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent equitable relief.
b.
With respect to violations of this article that are continuous, with respect to time, each day the violation continues, it is a separate offense.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-105. - Enforcement of other laws, rules, or regulations not limited.
Nothing in this article shall limit the authority of any state, local agency, or departments of the county to enforce any other laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances relating to water or sewer services.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-106. - Effect on other duly enacted ordinances, rules and resolutions.
Nothing in this article is intended to repeal any other duly enacted ordinance, resolution, or parts of ordinances or resolutions of the county, except where such ordinance, resolution, or parts of ordinances or resolutions are in direct conflict with this article. Any such repeal under this section shall be to the extent of such conflict only and no further.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-107. - Inclusion in Code of Ordinances.
The provisions of this article shall be included and incorporated within the Code of Laws of Fulton County, and may hereafter be numbered and re-lettered to accommodate this inclusion.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-108. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this article is declared or adjudged to be unconstitutional, or otherwise contrary to law, such adjudication shall in no manner affect any other section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase, which shall remain in full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
Sec. 62-109. - Effective date.
This resolution and Code amendment shall become effective upon its adoption, and that all resolutions and Code priorities in conflict with this resolution and Code amendment are repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(Res. No. 02-0264, 2-20-02)
