ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 58-1. - Effect on existing planning and zoning authorization.
(a)
This chapter shall become effective upon its adoption by the board of commissioners. All powers and authority granted by this chapter to the Fulton County Planning Commission and Fulton County Board of Zoning Appeals shall be cumulative. Such powers and authority shall be in addition to all other powers and authority the planning commission and board of appeals now has or may later have under other laws.
(b)
Any resolution of the board of commissioners heretofore legally enacted under the authority of any Georgia statute or constitutional provision shall remain in force and effect after this chapter becomes effective until the board of commissioners has brought the resolution into conformity with the provisions of this chapter. However, after this chapter becomes effective, the resolution shall be administered under the provisions of this chapter, and any amendment to any resolution shall be made under the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt plans and exercise zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.
Sec. 58-2. - Retention of filing fees.
The policy for refunds of application fees in zoning matters will be as follows:
(1)
If the application is accepted and filed with the county as an official document, no part of the application fee will be returned.
(2)
If the application is merely presented and returned to the applicant at his request, or at the suggestion of the staff, before any entry is made upon any county record, the full amount of the fee will be returned.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-3)
Sec. 58-3. - Filing fees.
The fees for filing of a zoning application with the county shall be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-4)
Sec. 58-4. - Mailing of zoning agendas; charges.
Subscription charges for mailing of zoning agendas shall be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-5)
Sec. 58-5. - Violation of chapter; misdemeanor.
(a)
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, take all necessary action to correct the violations and shall permanently cease such violations.
(b)
Any person who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter and who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for the satisfactory correction thereof, and any person who fails to cease all work after a stop order has been issued on a project, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which a violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punished in the manner prescribed by law for misdemeanors, and shall further reimburse the county for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the county by reason of such violation.
(d)
Persons designated by the director of public works and/or director of inspections and permits are hereby authorized to issue citations or summonses, or both, charging violations under this chapter, returnable to the State Court of Fulton County, or to any other court having the jurisdiction of a commitment court throughout the entire county, for trial.
(e)
The Magistrate Court of Fulton County and the State Court of Fulton County shall each have jurisdiction to try offenses alleging violations by any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity of this article. Violations of this chapter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor. Each day any violation of this article shall continue shall be considered a separate offense. Upon conviction, any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity shall be subject to a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the Fulton County Jail for not more than 60 days, or by both this fine and imprisonment for each offense.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-6; Ord. No. 99-0644, § III, 5-5-99)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 58-6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Agenda Item # 03-1082, adopted Sept. 3, 2003, superceded the provisions of § 58-6. Formerly, said section pertained to interim design standards for South Fulton Parkway Corridor. The user is directed to App. B, art. 12-K for similar provisions.
Secs. 58-7—58-35. - Reserved.
