ARTICLE III. - ZONING[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Zoning, app. B.
State Law reference— Conflicts of interest in zoning actions, O.C.G.A. § 36-67-A-1 et seq.; the Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; authority to adopt plans and exercise zoning powers, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

Sec. 58-76. - Grant of power.
For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, or general welfare of unincorporated Fulton County, the board of commissioners is empowered, and within the unincorporated areas thereof, in accordance with the conditions and the procedure specified in this chapter, to regulate the location, height, bulk, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the sizes of yards, courts, and other open spaces, the density and distribution of populations, and the uses of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, water supply, sanitation, protection against floods, public activities, and other purposes. These regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and shall be designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements. The regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among other things, of the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, conserving the value of buildings, and encouraging the most appropriate use of land and other buildings and structures throughout unincorporated Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-21)
Sec. 58-77. - Plan and resolution.
The board of commissioners may exercise the powers set forth in section 58-76 of this article and, for the purposes therein mentioned, may divide unincorporated Fulton County into districts of any number, shape, and size as it may determine; and within these districts it may regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings and structures and the use of land. The lawful use of any land, building, or structure that was existing and lawful at the time of the enactment or amendment of zoning regulations may, except as hereinafter provided, be continued although such does not conform with the provisions of such regulations or amendments (hereinafter called nonconforming use). The board of commissioners may provide in the zoning resolution for the continuance, restoration, reconstruction, extension, or substitution of a nonconforming use. The board of commissioners may also provide for the termination of any use of a building or structure or land that is not in conformity with the regulations of the district within which it is located either by specifying the period or periods in which the nonconforming use shall be required to cease, or by providing a formula or formulas whereby the compulsory termination of a nonconforming use may be so fixed as to allow for the recovery or amortization of the investment in such nonconforming use.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-22; Res. No. 01-0597, § 9, 6-20-01)
Sec. 58-78. - Method of procedure.
Before enacting the zoning resolution the board of commissioners shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be published once a week for at least two weeks in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements are published prior to holding of the same. No change in or departure from the text or maps, as certified by the planning commission, shall be made unless such change or departure be first submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its recommendation. If the planning commission fails to submit a recommendation within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the change or departure.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-23)
Sec. 58-79. - Zoning amendments.
The zoning resolution, including the maps, may be amended from time to time, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been proposed by or shall first have been submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendation. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit its recommendation. If the planning commission fails to submit a recommendation within the 30-day period, it shall be deemed to have approved the proposed amendment. The provisions of section 58-78 relative to public hearings and official notice shall apply equally to all amendments.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-24)
Sec. 58-80. - Fulton County Board of Zoning Appeals.
(a)
The board of commissioners hereby creates a board of zoning appeals.
(b)
The Fulton County Board of Zoning Appeals (or as hereinafter may be called the board) shall consist of seven members appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County. The term of each member shall coincide with that of the district commissioner who appointed the member to serve on the board of zoning appeals. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Members shall be removable for cause by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County upon written charges and after public hearing. The members of the board shall be compensated as fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County. None of the members shall hold any other public office or position in Fulton County, except that one member may also be a member of the Fulton County Community Zoning Board.
(c)
The board of zoning appeals shall elect one of its members chairman, who shall serve for one year or until he is reelected or his successor is elected. The director of the department of zoning administration shall be the secretary of the board of zoning appeals. The board of appeals shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or, in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths. The board may compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
(d)
Appeals to the board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of Fulton County affected by any decision of the administrative officer. An appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the board of appeals a notice of appeal specifying the ground thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(e)
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board of appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of zoning appeals or by a court of competent jurisdiction on application, on notice to the officer from who the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
(f)
The board of zoning appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and give due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
(g)
The board of zoning appeals shall have the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of any resolution effective pursuant to this section.
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the zoning resolution and maps upon which the board is required to pass under such zoning resolution and maps.
(3)
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases any variance from the terms of the zoning resolution and maps as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the zoning resolution and maps will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the resolution shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. A variance may be granted in individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board of zoning appeals that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography;
b.
The application of the resolution to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved;
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the resolution; however, no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by the zoning resolution and maps; and
e.
In exercising the above powers, the board of zoning appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or determination, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-25; 15-0148, Exh. A, 2-18-15)
Sec. 58-81. - Enforcement of article and remedies.
The board of commissioners shall provide for the enforcement of this article or any resolution effective pursuant to the provisions of this article by means of the withholding of building permits and occupancy permits, and for such purposes has established and filled the position of building official. It shall be unlawful to construct, reconstruct, or alter any building or other structure without first obtaining a building permit from the department of inspections and permits or to use such building or structure on any land without first obtaining an occupancy permit from the department of inspections and permits; and the department of inspections and permits shall not issue any permit unless the requirements of this article and of any resolution effective pursuant to it are complied with.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-27)
Sec. 58-82. - Conflict with other laws.
Whenever the regulations made under the authority of this article require a greater width or size of yards, courts, or other open spaces, or require a lower height of building or smaller number of stories, or require a greater percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other regulation, the regulations effective under authority of this article shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other regulation require more restrictive standards than are required by the regulations made effective under the authority of this article, the provisions of such regulation shall govern.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-28)
Sec. 58-83. - Zoning regulations incorporated by reference.
The Fulton County Zoning Resolutions, as adopted by the board of commissioners, as subsequently amended, is hereby incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the current resolution shall be maintained in the office of the clerk of the commission or at a location designated by the clerk, for inspection by the public.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-29)
Editor's note— The zoning resolution is published in appendix B.
Secs. 58-84—58-115. - Reserved.
