Chapter 10 - AVIATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Aviation, ch. 6.
State Law reference— Aviation, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FULTON COUNTY AIRPORT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to acquire, construct and maintain airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20 et seq.; general powers of counties and municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25; authority to enforce police regulations in airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-27.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means the Fulton County Airport.
Airport manager means the person in charge of the airport for the county, his assistant, or duly authorized representative.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative thereof.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-32. - Airport manager; authority.
(a)
The airport manager shall at all times have authority to take such action as may be necessary to safeguard the public in attendance at the airport.
(b)
The airport manager, either directly or through the airways traffic control center, may suspend or restrict any or all operations without regard to weather conditions whenever such action is deemed necessary in the interest of safety.
(c)
The airport manager shall make such rules and regulations in addition to those herein provided, as shall be required in any emergency.
(Code 1983, §§ 29-3-2—29-3-4)
Sec. 10-33. - Regulation of aircraft.
No person shall navigate any aircraft over, land upon, or fly the same from, or service, maintain, or repair any aircraft on the airport, or conduct any aircraft operations on or from the airport, otherwise than in conformity with the requirements herein contained, and those regulations established by the Federal Aviation Agency under the authority of any FAA regulations, revised or amended.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-5)
Sec. 10-34. - Nondiscrimination policy at all facilities.
There is to be no discrimination practiced in any service furnished or facility used at the Fulton County Airport, but that all persons operating aircraft thereon, or having any occasion to use the airport be treated and served in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-6)
Sec. 10-35. - Conduct of business.
(a)
Passenger service. Scheduled passenger air service is prohibited at Fulton County Airport/Brown Field. "Scheduled passenger air service" shall mean the common carriage of passenger by air for compensation or hire pursuant to a published schedule.
(b)
Concessions. No person shall engage in the sale of refreshments or any other commodity, gasoline, oil, etc., or of service or solicit funds from the public on the airport for any purpose or post, distribute or display signs, advertisements, handbills, circulars, printed or written matter at the airport except with the written approval of the board of commissioners and in the manner prescribed by the airport manager and upon payment of the rates and charges prescribed or the rates specifically agreed upon by and between the county and the person for such use.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-7)
Sec. 10-36. - Roads, walks, ramps, taxiways and runways.
No person shall use the roads, walks, ramps, taxiways, or runways in such a manner as to obstruct their proper use.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-8)
Sec. 10-37. - Admission to hangars.
No person, other than local airport personnel, FAA personnel, and county employees directly concerned with the persons having aircraft stored therein shall enter any hangar or building on the airport without permission from the airport manager.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-9)
Sec. 10-38. - Records.
Every company or organization operating at the airport shall maintain an up-to-date file containing the name, address, telephone number, and occupation of all employees, pilots, and owners of aircraft based on its premises. This information shall be available to the airport manager on request.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-10)
Sec. 10-39. - Construction, alterations, or electrical wiring.
No person shall do any construction, alteration work, or electrical wiring in or to any existing hangar or building on the airport without first securing written permission from the airport manager.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-11)
Sec. 10-40. - Dogs.
No person shall enter the terminal building with a dog or other animal, except a Seeing Eye dog, and dogs or other animals brought upon the airport premises must be restrained by a leash or confined in such a manner as to be under control at all times.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-12)
State Law reference— Right of visually handicapped or deaf persons to be accompanied by guide dog or service dog, O.C.G.A. § 30-4-1.
Sec. 10-41. - Lost articles.
Any person finding lost articles shall deposit them in the office of the airport manager.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-13)
Sec. 10-42. - Motor vehicles and mobile equipment.
(a)
Generally. No person shall operate any motor vehicle on the runways or taxiways without prior authorization by the FAA control tower. All fuel trucks regularly used on the airport shall be equipped with two-way radios on ground control frequency (121.7). No pedestrian shall be allowed on runways or taxiways without prior authorization by the control tower.
(b)
Ramps and aprons. No person shall operate any motor vehicle or mobile equipment on the ramps and aprons of the airport property except:
(1)
Persons assigned to duty thereon; or
(2)
Persons authorized by the airport manager.
(c)
Speed. All motor vehicles and mobile equipment shall be operated in strict compliance with posted traffic signs and in no case at a speed in excess of 30 miles per hour.
(d)
Accidents. All accidents and witnesses thereto in which a motor vehicle or mobile equipment is involved shall be reported promptly to the office of the airport manager or the nearest guard.
(e)
Parking. Vehicles and equipment shall not be parked on the airport other than in a manner and at locations indicated by posted traffic signs. The airport manager is hereby authorized to provide for the installation, operation, maintenance, and policing of parking meters and/or parking pay stations to be installed on airport parking lots. The number of meters or pay stations, the parking areas to be metered, and the hours and rates of parking shall be determined by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, §§ 29-3-14—29-3-19)
Sec. 10-43. - Property damage.
Any and all airport property destroyed, injured, or damaged by accident or otherwise shall be paid for by the party or parties responsible for the destruction, injury, or damage thereto.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-23)
Sec. 10-44. - Firearms, explosives, and inflammable material.
No person except duly authorized peace officers, and post office, airport and air carrier employees or members of the armed forces of the United States on official duty shall carry any firearms, explosives, or inflammable materials on the airport without the written permission of the airport manager.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-24)
Sec. 10-45. - Sanitation.
No person shall dispose of garbage, papers, or refuse or other material on the airport except in the receptacles provided for that purpose.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-25)
Sec. 10-46. - Fire hazards.
(a)
Smoking. No person shall smoke on the passenger apron, in the hangars, or in any other area on the airport in violation of posted "no smoking" signs, and in no case at a distance less than 50 feet from any aircraft or storage area for inflammable materials.
(b)
Cleaning aircraft; use of inflammable liquids. No person shall use inflammable, volatile liquids in the cleaning of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances or accessories unless the cleaning operations are conducted in open air, or in a room specifically set aside for that purpose, which room shall be properly ventilated, fireproofed, and equipped with adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishing apparatus. "Danger—no smoking" signs are to be posted at such areas, observing a minimum distance of 50 feet.
(c)
Open flame operations. No person shall conduct any open flame operations in any hangar or part thereof unless specifically authorized by the airport manager.
(d)
Storage. No person shall store or stock material or equipment in such a manner as to constitute a fire hazard.
(e)
Storage of inflammable material. No person shall keep, store or discard any inflammable liquids, gases, signal flares, or other similar material in the hangars or in any other building on the airport, provided that these materials may be kept in aircraft in the proper receptacles installed in the aircraft for such purposes or in rooms or areas specifically approved for such storage by the airport manager.
(f)
Lubricating oils. No person shall keep or store lubricating oils in or about the hangars, provided that such material may be kept in aircraft in the proper receptacles installed in the aircraft for such purpose or in containers provided with suitable drawoff devices.
(g)
Waste. Lessees of hangars shall provide suitable metal receptacles with self-closing covers for the storage of oily wastes, rags, and other rubbish. All such wastes shall be removed by the lessee, daily.
(h)
Cleaning fluids. No person shall use volatile, inflammable substances for cleaning floors in the hangars or in other buildings on the airport.
(i)
Floor care. All lessees on the airport shall keep the floors of the hangars and hangar and terminal aprons, pits, and areas adjacent thereto, leased by them, respectively, free and clean of oil, grease, rubbish, and other inflammable materials.
(j)
Doping. Doping processes shall be conducted only in designated and properly designated fireproofed and ventilated rooms or buildings in which all illumination, wiring, heating, ventilation equipment, switches, outlets, and fixtures shall be sparkproof. No person shall enter or work in a dope room while doping processes are being conducted unless the person wears sparkproof shoes.
(k)
Fire equipment. No person shall remove or cause to be removed from its holder, container, reel, or bracket any equipment or device used in fire prevention except in case of emergency or fire. In any event, such equipment shall not be taken from any hangar or building for standby use by any person or for any use other than that for which it is intended without written permission from the airport manager.
(l)
Obstructions. All fire doors, hangar doors, sprinkler risers, fire boxes, fire hydrants and pits, hose boxes, and all firefighting apparatus shall be kept clear of obstructions at all times.
(m)
Elimination of fire hazards. When the airport manager has in writing notified or requested any lessee, tenant, or other person on the airport to correct or eliminate any fire hazard on the airport, the lessee, tenant, or other person shall correct or eliminate the hazard in the manner and within the time prescribed in written notification or request received by him.
(Code 1983, §§ 29-3-26—29-3-38)
Sec. 10-47. - Aircraft operations; airport property.
All persons having entered upon the airport property shall be governed by the rules and regulations herein prescribed, and by orders and instructions of the county commission relative to the use or occupation of any part of the airport property.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-39)
Sec. 10-48. - Business or commercial activity.
No person shall engage in any business or commercial activity of any nature whatsoever on the airport except in conformance with the requirements of the county and the airport manager and under such terms and conditions as they may prescribe.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-40)
Sec. 10-49. - FAA Air Traffic Rules; adopted by reference.
(a)
The Air Traffic Rules as established by the Federal Aviation Agency and currently in effect, or as subsequently revised or amended, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of these rules as fully as if the same and each and all of them were set forth herein.
(b)
No person shall navigate any aircraft upon, fly same from, service, maintain, repair any aircraft, or conduct any aircraft operations on or from the airport otherwise than in conformity with current, or as subsequently revised or amended, Federal Aviation Agency rules and regulations established under federal authority.
(Code 1983, §§ 29-3-41, 29-3-42)
Sec. 10-50. - Other aircraft regulations.
(a)
Radio and brakes. No aircraft, either locally based or making frequent local usage, shall be landed on or taken off from the airport unless it is equipped with properly functioning radio and brakes that are consistent with the safe operation of the aircraft.
(b)
Tail skids. No aircraft equipped with a tail skid shall land or takeoff from or be based on the airport.
(c)
Aircraft storage and repair. Aircraft shall be stored or parked and repairs made in spaces designated for the purpose by the airport manager.
(d)
Securing of unattended aircraft. No aircraft shall be left unattended on the airport unless properly secured or within a hangar. Owners of such aircraft shall be held responsible for any damage resulting from failure to comply with this rule.
(e)
Parking of aircraft. No aircraft shall be parked or left unattended within 30 feet of the edge of any taxiway nor within 175 feet of any runway or on the ramp area, except when parked on loading ramps for loading or unloading purposes.
(f)
Takeoffs and landings. All takeoffs and landings shall be made at safe distances from other aircraft and from all buildings, automobile parking areas, and other obstructions, and aircraft shall clear all highways and roads on or adjacent to the airport by a vertical distance of at least 50 feet.
(g)
Aerobatics. No aircraft shall be flown within the airport traffic zone in maneuvers other than those required in normal routine operation.
(h)
Clearance. The airport manager may delay or restrict any flight or other operations at the airport and may refuse takeoff clearance to any aircraft for any reason he believes he can justify.
(i)
Waste and refuse. No person shall deposit, dump, cast, throw or leave any waste, garbage, papers, or other materials or refuse matter from any aircraft, upon the loading ramps, taxiways, or grounds of the airport.
(j)
Intoxicants, liquor, and drugs. No pilot or other member of the crew of any aircraft in operation on the airport, or any person attending or assisting in said operation on the airport, shall be under the influence of intoxicating liquor or habit-forming drugs, nor shall any person obviously under the influence of intoxicating liquor or habit-forming drugs be permitted to board any aircraft except a medical patient under proper care or in case of an emergency.
(k)
Full control of aircraft required. Following a landing or prior to takeoff while taxiing, the pilot shall assure himself that there is no danger of collision with other aircraft taking off, landing, or taxiing. All aircraft shall be taxied under full control at reasonable speeds (in no case at a speed greater than 15 mph).
(l)
Taxiing into or out of hangars. Aircraft shall not be taxied into or out of hangars under any circumstances.
(m)
Starting, running, and warming of engines. No aircraft engine shall be started or run unless a competent operator shall be attending the controls. Chocks shall always be placed in front of the main landing wheels before starting the engine or engines, unless the aircraft is equipped with adequate locking brakes. Under no circumstances is any aircraft engine to be started or run at a distance less than 50 feet from any hangar or building or inside of any hangar or building. Aircraft shall be started and warmed up only in areas designated for such purpose by the airport manager. Engines shall not be operated in such a position that hangars, shops, or other buildings, or spectators or automobiles or other aircraft shall be in the path of the propeller slipstream.
(n)
Proper consent and authority required. No person shall take or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments, or tools thereof owned, controlled, or operated by any other person while such aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments, or tools are stored, housed, or otherwise left on the airport or within its hangars or buildings without the written consent of the owner or operator thereof, or satisfactory evidence of the right to do so duly presented to the airport manager.
(o)
Flight pattern. All flight patterns shall be counter clockwise (to the left) unless otherwise instructed by the tower.
(Code 1983, §§ 29-3-43—29-3-57, 29-3-60)
Sec. 10-51. - Accident reports.
Witnesses of and participants in any accident on or within the airport shall make a full report thereof to the airport manager as soon after the accident as possible, together with their names and addresses.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-58)
Sec. 10-52. - Damage to airport property.
Any and all airport property destroyed, injured, or damaged by accident or otherwise, shall be paid for by the party or parties responsible for such destructions, injury, or damage thereto.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-59)
Secs. 10-53—10-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - FIXED BASED OPERATORS

Sec. 10-86. - Definition.
The term "fixed base operators" and/or "fixed base operation" as used herein is hereby defined as any person, firm, or corporation which provides any one or all of the following services: sale of aviation petroleum products, aircraft maintenance and repairs, aircraft sales, flight instruction, charter service, and aircraft rental.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-71)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-87. - Requirements.
(a)
Fixed base operators must show financial solvency and business ability to the satisfaction of the county commission.
(b)
Fixed base operators shall carry liability insurance in an amount as fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners. A certificate of insurance must be furnished to the county clerk. All fixed base operators shall be required to indemnify the county against any and all claims for injuries and damages resulting from their operations.
(c)
The fixed base operator may engage in flight instruction, charter service, and/or aircraft rental, any one or all of these services, provided that the fixed base operator shall provide a minimum of two aircraft at the airport. The fixed base operator must provide and maintain a full-time office at the airport and provide full-time necessary office personnel. The fixed base operator must provide only properly certified instructors and pilots with ratings and qualifications as required by the Federal Aviation Agency in the performance of all operations outlined in this paragraph.
(d)
All fixed base operations at the Fulton County Airport shall be full-time progressive business enterprise with a manned office facility at the airport during normal business hours.
(e)
Fixed base operators will be required to furnish the county commission a performance bond commensurate with the construction required under the minimum standards of services to be performed.
(f)
All construction required herein shall be in accordance with design and construction standards established by the Fulton County Commission for the facility involved, and shall meet all building code requirements.
(g)
The county commission shall determine substantial conformance to the standards for fixed base operators. No fixed base operator shall be allowed to operate on the airport without a fully executed lease agreement between Fulton County and the fixed base operator.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-72)
Sec. 10-88. - Miscellaneous operations.
Miscellaneous operations such as radio and instrument repairs, aerial advertising, and other aeronautical activities not hereinbefore provided for may be conducted by any person, firm, or corporation only with approval of the county commission and will be subject to the terms and conditions as may be required by the county commission. Reasonable terms and conditions for the privilege of engaging in these various services will be established by the county commission commensurate with the nature and scope of the activities involved.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-73)
Sec. 10-89. - Minimum standards for hangars, lot size, and terms of lease.
(a)
All fixed base operators shall have a hangar containing a minimum of 8,000 square feet of floor space. Buildings shall be built in conformance with the Fulton County Building Code, floor and ramps shall be of concrete or properly compacted subgrade of sufficient designed load strength to sustain all types of aircraft which it is planned to have use the facility.
(b)
Fixed base operator lots shall contain the minimum of two acres, including onsite parking.
(c)
Rent for unimproved land and royalties to the county from the sale of fuel shall be as fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(d)
The county shall provide a paved taxiway from the leased property to the nearest taxi strip and pay for the construction of necessary utilities up to the lessee's property line.
(e)
Sufficient outside hose connections for washing of aircraft and other purposes, such as washing ramps, watering shrubbery, etc., must be installed. Should any new building be constructed over 1,000 feet from an existing fireplug, a new plug shall be provided.
(f)
The county will lease its owned facilities for a rental fee determined by an appraisal of the condition and value of the facilities.
(g)
All leases shall be for not more than 30 years.
(h)
All fixed base operators shall be required to submit to the county a plan of development indicating the proposed improvements and facilities to be provided including plot plan and ground layout for the county's approval or disapproval.
(i)
Leases may be assigned or sublet to qualified fixed base operators only with the approval of the Fulton County Commission.
(j)
Leases may be cancelled by the Fulton County Commission for failure of fixed base operators to maintain minimum requirements, violation of airport regulations, failure to comply with Federal Aviation Agency regulations, or upon a determination by the Fulton County Commission that the lessee's operation is unsafe or hazardous provided the lessee shall be reimbursed for the undepreciated cost of capital improvements attached to the land.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-74)
Secs. 10-90—10-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - FLYING CLUBS

Sec. 10-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Flying club means any group of individuals, whether or not incorporated, who have associated in joint ownership, operation or use of one or more aircraft, whether owned, leased, or otherwise held.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-81)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 10-122. - Limitations on operations.
Flying clubs may lease or otherwise obtain space for their operations from an established fixed base operator, or may obtain available space directly from Fulton County. In either event, their operations shall conform to the following limitations:
(1)
Aircraft of the club shall not be used for revenue-producing services including, but not limited to, charter, air taxi service, or rental of an aircraft for one or more flights, either with or without pilot service.
(2)
Fuel and oil used in the aircraft of any flying club, when stored on the premises, shall be stored in an approved manner, and in accordance with standards approved by the airport manager.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-82)
Sec. 10-123. - Repairing and adjusting aircraft.
No repair requiring the removal of an integral part of the aircraft, fuselage, wing, or undercarriage, or extended operation of the engine, shall be made on any ramp or area assigned for the tie-down space, or at a location other than that provided specifically for the purpose by the airport manager. Minor adjustments and replacement of minor parts and adjustments and repairs to radio are excepted from this provision.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-83)
Sec. 10-124. - Limitations on flight instruction.
No flight instruction for which a charge is made by the club or payment is made in money or in merchandise, or as an exchange for services, shall be given without a specific license therefor, granted by Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-84)
Sec. 10-125. - Insurance requirements.
All aircraft permanently based on Fulton County Airport shall obtain and furnish to the airport manager evidence of liability insurance in an amount as fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-85)
Sec. 10-126. - Royalties to Fulton County.
Persons or clubs furnishing their own fuel or oil shall pay the prevailing royalty to Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-86)
Sec. 10-127. - Records.
Records of flying clubs shall be open to inspection by Fulton County for the purpose of checking compliance with the restriction against flight training for compensation, and for checking the amount of royalty due Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-87)
Sec. 10-128. - Responsibility for leased space and facilities.
In all cases where an individual or flying club shall lease space or facilities from a licensed fixed base operator, such fixed base operator shall be responsible for compliance with the requirements hereof, insofar as the space and facilities of said fixed base operator are involved.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-88)
Sec. 10-129. - Conformance to all rules and regulations.
All persons, including flying clubs, using the facilities of Fulton County Airport, shall conform to all rules and regulations of FAA, and Fulton County Airport, in regard to the operation and storage of aircraft, and the use of facilities of Fulton County Airport.
(Code 1983, § 29-3-89)
