ARTICLE XIII. - TOURIST COURTS[14]

Footnotes:
--- (14) ---
State Law reference— Tourist courts, O.C.G.A. § 31-28-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-626. - State regulations adopted.
A certain document, being marked and designated "Rules and Regulations for Tourist Accommodation, Chapter 290-5-18" as published by the Georgia Department of Human Resources (Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. 290-5-18) and as may be hereinafter amended, is hereby adopted as the health regulations governing tourist accommodations for the county up, through and until December 31, 2013 and is made a part of this article as though fully set out at length herein. Such rules shall apply to all applications for tourist accommodation permits received by the county on or before December 31, 2013 and to all revocation or suspension actions initiated by the county on or before December 31, 2013.
Effective January 1, 2014, a certain document, being marked and designated "Rules and Regulations, Tourist Accommodations, Chapter 511-6-2" as published by the Georgia Department of Public Health (Ga. Comp. R. & Regs. 511-6-2) and as may be hereinafter amended, is hereby adopted as the health regulations governing tourist accommodations for the county and is made a part of this article as though fully set out at length herein. Such rules shall apply to all applications for tourist accommodation permits received by the county or the board of health on or after January 1, 2014 and to all revocation or suspension actions initiated by the county or the board of health on or after January 1, 2014.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-28-5, in addition to the State of Georgia's Rules and Regulations for Tourist Accommodations, the Fulton County Board of Health may adopt and promulgate supplementary rules and regulations consistent with those adopted by the state.
(Code 1983, § 30-3-10; Ord. No. 12-0285, 4-4-12; Ord. No. 13-0660, 8-21-13; Ord. No. 13-1168, 12-18-13; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-626.1. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Change of ownership means the transfer of 50 percent interest or greater in the tourist court to a person or entity not holding a current interest.
Imminent health hazard means a product, practice, circumstance, event or condition that requires immediate correction or cessation of operation in order to prevent a significant threat of danger or death, injury or illness. Imminent health hazards include, but are not limited to, (i) an unapproved or improperly functioning wastewater disposal system, (ii) an infestation of insects, rodents, or other vermin, or (iii) an unapproved water supply or inadequate water supply system.
Operator shall mean the person who has the duty and responsibility of overall management of the tourist court which includes maintaining a sanitary facility, providing guest services and training employees, or his or her representative, or the person in charge.
Owner shall mean the individual, partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity that owns the premises.
Permit holder is the individual, partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity to whom a tourist court permit is issued.
Person in charge shall mean the individual present in a tourist court establishment who is the owner, supervisor, manager or owner's designated representative of the tourist court establishment present at the time of the inspection. The person in charge shall be knowledgeable of the responsibilities in the state rules and regulations related to tourist courts and this Code section and shall have access to facilities on the premises.
Premises shall mean and include all physical buildings, appurtenances, parking lots, drive ways and all property owned and/or used by a permitted tourist court or all physical buildings, appurtenances, parking lots, drive ways and all property for which a tourist court permit is being sought, whichever is applicable.
(Ord. No. 13-1168, 12-18-13)
Sec. 34-627. - Permit requirements.
(a)
Permit required. A valid permit issued by the Fulton County Board of Health shall be required prior to operation as a tourist court or tourist accommodation. Such permit shall be obtained in compliance with the Rules and Regulations for Tourist Accommodations published by the State of Georgia, and adopted pursuant to section 34-626. To qualify for a permit, an applicant shall be an owner of the tourist court. Permits shall expire upon change of ownership, location or change of type of operation.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-28-5, the following supplementary rules and regulations contained in section 34-627 shall apply in unincorporated Fulton County:
(b)
Denial, suspension or revocation of permits. Permits sought under this article may not be denied, suspended, revoked or non-renewed except for "due cause." The following constitute "due cause":
(1)
Failure to comply with the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to section 34-626 above.
(2)
When the operator, owner, permit holder, or person in charge of the tourist court permits or otherwise allows the solicitation of patrons on the premises for prostitution, illegal drug activity, or any other unlawful act where the operator, owner, permit holder, or person in charge or the employee or agent of the operator, owner, permit holder, or person in charge knew or should have known of such conduct.
(3)
Failure by the operator, owner, permit holder, or person in charge to adequately supervise and monitor the conduct of employees, patrons, and others on the premises, in order to protect the safety and well-being of the tourist court's employees, the public and of those utilizing the premises.
(4)
The failure of the operator, owner, permit holder or person in charge to keep the premises clean and free of litter, including, but not limited to, bottles, cups, trash and other debris.
(5)
Creating, maintaining, or allowing the creation or maintenance of any public or private nuisance, as defined by state law and/or Fulton County ordinances.
(6)
Failure to pay, when due, any applicable hotel-motel tax on rooms, lodging or accommodations.
(7)
A high number of crime reports and offense reports generated from the premises within the immediately preceding 12 months, or during the period in which the current owner has owned the premises, whichever is less, as included in the uniform crime reports and/or offense reports for the relevant period and as compared to similarly situated, permitted tourist courts in unincorporated Fulton County taking into consideration the severity of the crimes included in such reports.
For purposes of this subsection, murder, voluntary manslaughter, rape, aggravated sodomy, aggravated child molestation, aggravated sexual battery, armed robbery, drug crimes, prostitution and kidnapping shall be considered severe.
(8)
When the premises create an imminent health hazard to guests of the tourist court and to members of the public.
(Ord. No. 12-0285, 4-4-12; Ord. No. 13-0660, 8-21-13; Ord. No. 13-1168, 12-18-13; Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, 5-16-18)
Sec. 34-628. - Notice and hearing.
No permit will be denied, revoked or suspended without first providing notice in writing to the operator via certified mail, return receipt requested, and an opportunity for a hearing as provided in O.C.G.A. § 31-5-2 and as required pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-28-3. Hearings shall be conducted by the permit review hearing officer.
(Ord. No. 12-0285, 4-4-12)
Sec. 34-629. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, adopted May 16, 2018, repealed former § 34-629 which pertained to permit review hearing officer, and derived from Ord. No. 12-0285, adopted April 4, 2012; and Ord. No. 13-0660, adopted Aug. 21, 2013.
Sec. 34-629.1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-0340, Att. A, adopted May 16, 2018, repealed former § 34-629.1 which pertained to board of commissioners' action on application, and derived from Ord. No. 13-0660, adopted Aug. 21, 2013.
Sec. 34-630. - Additional regulations for tourist courts operating in unincorporated areas.
(1)
Hourly rates prohibited. No tourist court within the unincorporated areas of Fulton County shall charge or accept money or other consideration for lodging by an hourly rate or any increment less than one full day's room rental.
(2)
Posting of rates. The operator of any tourist court within the unincorporated areas of Fulton County shall post the room rental rates in a conspicuous location in clear view of registrants and guests. The operator shall not charge or accept money or other consideration in excess of the room rental rates required to be posted by this section.
(3)
Guest receipts.
(a)
Receipts shall be issued for all cash and noncash payments at the time paid. County hotel/motel occupancy tax and any charges other than room rental charges shall be listed separately.
(b)
Receipts shall be pre-numbered and in sequential order. Receipts may be in sequential order based upon date/time, when a reservation was made, or based upon date/time of registration.
(c)
Room numbers shall be included on all receipts, bills and registration cards, with any changes noted.
(d)
In the event the tourist court utilizes a computerized pre-arrival registration and/or billing procedure, the business shall not be required to comply with subsection (b) of this section; provided, however, that the pre-arrival registration and/or billing procedure must be able to certify that payments are properly tracked and recorded so as to create an audit trail.
(4)
Guest register.
(a)
The operator of any tourist court shall keep a register of the names and home or business addresses of all persons to be accommodated with the length of stay indicated.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) below, the operator or his or her employee shall, at the time of registration, verify the identification of the registrant by requesting to see, and copying onto the registration form, any one of the following: the registrant's valid driver's license number, the registrant's valid passport number and country of issuance, a photocopy of a valid military photo identification, and/or a credit card number of a credit card issued in the registrant's name.
(c)
The operator or his or her employee must also include on the registration forms required by this section the make, type and license number of the registrant's automobile, trailer or other vehicle, and the state in which such vehicle is registered and the year of registration, for any vehicle operated by the registrant that is parked on the premises.
(d)
In the event that the tourist court utilizes a pre-arrival registration or approval procedure that obviates the requirement for an arriving guest to go to the front desk and provide information typically required as part of the premises' customary registration process, the business shall not be required to comply with subsection (b) of this section; provided, however, that the business must obtain such guest-related information of the types specified in subsection (b) as a part of the pre-arrival registration or approval procedure.
(5)
Period of retention. The guest register required by subsection (4) above shall be kept and maintained on the premises for a period of not less than three years by the operator. The guest receipts required by subsection (3) above shall be kept and maintained in compliance with article 2 of chapter 18 regarding business and occupation taxes.
(6)
Posting of identification of owner and operator. The name, business address and business telephone number of the owner and operator must be posted in a conspicuous location in the registration, lobby or similar public area. The owner and the operator must provide to employees of the tourist court a telephone number where the owner or his or her representative may be reached during any time the business is in operation.
(Ord. No. 12-0285, 4-4-12)
Secs. 34-631—34-660. - Reserved.
