ARTICLE IV. - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS

Sec. 58-116. - Intent of article.
The public health, safety, morals, and general welfare require the harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of land within unincorporated Fulton County. In furtherance of this purpose, regulation of the subdivision of land by the board of commissioners is authorized for the following purposes, among others:
(1)
To encourage the development of economically sound and stable communities;
(2)
To ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments;
(3)
To ensure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments;
(4)
To ensure the provision of needed public open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes; and
(5)
To ensure, in general, the wise development of new areas, in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-36)
Cross reference— Subdivision regulations, app. A.
Sec. 58-117. - Platting authority.
No plat of a subdivision within the unincorporated portion of Fulton County shall be filed or recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Fulton County until it shall have been submitted to and approved by the director of public works and indication of such approval entered in writing on the plat. The clerk of the superior court shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision which does not have an indication of approval. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without the approval of the director of public works as required by this article is hereby declared a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is punishable as provided by law.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-37)
Sec. 58-118. - Provisions of regulations.
(a)
The director of public works shall prepare and recommend to the board of commissioners for adoption regulations governing the subdivision of land within the unincorporated portion of Fulton County. This article may provide for the harmonious development of Fulton County; for the coordination of streets within subdivisions with other existing or planned streets or official map streets; for the size of blocks and lots; for the dedication or reservation of land for streets, school sites, and recreation areas and of easements for utilities and other public services and facilities; and for a distribution of population and traffic which will tend to create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience, prosperity, or general welfare.
(b)
The subdivision regulations may include requirements as to the extent to which and the manner in which streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved, and water, sewers, septic tanks, and other utility mains, piping, connections, or other facilities shall be installed as a condition precedent to the approval of the plat. The subdivision regulations may provide that, in lieu of the completion of any work and installations previous to the final approval of a plat, the board of commissioners may accept a bond, in an amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to it, providing for and securing to Fulton County the actual construction and installations of such improvements and utilities within a period specified by the department of public works and expressed in the bond; and the board of commissioners shall enforce the bonds by all appropriate legal and equitable remedies. The board of commissioners may adopt and amend any land subdivision regulations after a public hearing thereon, at least 15 days' notice of the time and place of which shall have been published in a newspaper of general circulation in Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-38)
Sec. 58-119. - Effect of plat approval on status of dedications.
The approval of a final plat by the director of public works shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an acceptance by Fulton County of the dedication of any street, utility, structure, use or other ground shown upon the plat until such time as the public improvement shown thereon has been accepted by the director of public works.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-39)
Sec. 58-120. - Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions.
The owner or agent of the owner of any land to be subdivided within Fulton County, who transfers or sells or agrees to sell or negotiates to sell this land by reference to or exhibition or by other use of a plat of subdivision of the land before the final plat has been approved by the director of public works and recorded in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Fulton County, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided by law; and the description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from such penalties. Fulton County, through its attorney or other official designated by the board of commissioners, may enjoin any transfer or sale or agreement by appropriate action.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-40)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 58-121. - Acceptance of and improvements in unapproved streets.
From and after the time when the board of commissioners shall have attached by virtue of the adoption by the planning commission of a major street plan and the adoption by the board of commissioners of a set of land subdivision regulations, the board of commissioners shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or light any street or lay or authorize the laying of any water mains, sewers, connections, or other facilities or utilities in any street within unincorporated Fulton County unless the street shall have been accepted or opened as, or shall otherwise have received the legal status of, a public street prior to the attachment of the board of commissioners, subdivision jurisdiction, or unless the street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on an approved subdivision plat; however, the board of commissioners may locate and construct or may accept any other street if the resolution or other measure for such approval be first submitted to the department of public works for its review and comment. Such street shall have the status of an approved street as fully as though it had been originally shown on an approved subdivision plat.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-41)
Sec. 58-122. - Erection of buildings.
From and after the time when the platting jurisdiction of the board of commissioners shall have attached by virtue of adoption by the planning commission of a major street plan and the adoption by the board of commissioners of a set of land subdivision regulations, no building permit shall be issued for and no building or other structure shall be erected on any lot within unincorporated Fulton County unless the street giving access to the lot up which the building is proposed to be placed shall be accepted or opened as, or shall have otherwise received the legal status of a public street prior to that time, or unless such street corresponds in its location and lines with a street shown on a subdivision plat approved by the director of public works, or with a street located and accepted by the board of commissioners, or as provided for by the Fulton County Zoning Resolution. Any building erected in violation of this section shall be deemed an unlawful structure, and the county building official, employees designated by the director of public works, county attorney, or other official designated by the board of commissioners may bring appropriate action to enjoin such erection or cause it to be vacated or removed, or issue a citation to any person who shall erect a building in violation of this article as provided by the procedures set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-1-17.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-42)
Sec. 58-123. - Incorporated by reference.
The Fulton County Subdivision Regulations, as adopted by the board of commissioners, and as subsequently amended, is hereby incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the current resolution shall be maintained in the office of the clerk of the commission, or at a location designated by the clerk, for inspection by the public.
(Code 1983, § 28-1-43)
Secs. 58-124—58-160. - Reserved.
