Chapter 14 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to environment, ch. 26; ordinances pertaining to planning, ch. 58; impact fees, § 58-161 et seq.; ordinances pertaining to utilities, ch. 82; resolutions pertaining to buildings and building regulations, ch. 106; private inspection of water and sewer lines, § 106-6; resolutions pertaining to environment, ch. 134; resolutions pertaining to planning, ch. 158; resolutions pertaining to utilities, ch. 178; subdivision regulations, app. A; zoning, app. B.
State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and any person violating any provisions of this chapter, or any codes, rules, and regulations pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The Magistrate Court of Fulton County and the State County of Fulton County shall each have jurisdiction to try offenses alleging violations of this article by any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity. Each day any violation of this article shall continue shall be considered a separate offense. Upon conviction, any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity shall be subject to a fine of $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment in the Fulton County Jail for not more than 60 days, or by both this fine and imprisonment for each offense.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-22; Ord. No. 99-0644, 5-5-99)
State Law reference— Maximum punishments which may be imposed for violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 14-2. - Unfit buildings.
Where it is determined that there exists in Fulton County a dwelling or other building or structure that is vacant, the following minimum specifications to secure the property shall be maintained:
(1)
All openings shall be secured from unauthorized entry.
(2)
All fabricated boards used to board up all openings to prevent unauthorized entry shall be painted with one coat of primer on the exterior surface. Paint to be compatible with existing building.
(3)
All garbage, trash, and debris shall be removed from the interior and exterior of the premises.
(4)
A deadbolt shall be installed on front exterior door above existing lock.
(90-RCM-197, § 31-1-5A, 2-21-90)
State Law reference— Authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.
Sec. 14-3. - Protection of steep slopes and grading activities; procedures for land disturbance permits.
(a)
Title. This section shall be known as the "Fulton County Steep Slopes Protection and Grading Ordinance."
(b)
Intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to recognize and require adherence to county regulations and guidelines that govern the development of land that contains steep slopes within unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia. In addition, the intent of this section is to minimize the grading and site disturbance of steep slopes and other environmentally sensitive areas as defined in the 2005-2025 Fulton County Comprehensive Plan by restricting land disturbances in such areas. Moreover, this section is intended to protect natural resources, public health, safety, and the general welfare of the citizens of unincorporated Fulton County.
(c)
Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this article, unless otherwise specifically stated:
"Applicant" means any person who seeks permission to engage in any regulated activity on any land that contains steep slope areas, as those terms defined therein.
"Department" means the Fulton County Department of Environment and Community Development.
"Land disturbing activity" means any activity which may result in soil erosion from and the movement of sediments into waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in the Fulton County Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
"Land disturbance permit" means an official authorization issued by the department, allowing defoliation or alteration of a site or the commencement of any construction activities, including but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land, but not including agricultural operations as defined in Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3).
"Grading" means the movement of earth by mechanical means to alter the gross topographic features, including elevation and slope, to prepare a site for final grading and construction of facilities, including structures, parking lots, and roads.
"Professional engineer" means a professional engineer that has been licensed by the State of Georgia, having met the provisions thereof.
"Professional landscape architect" means a professional landscape architect that has been licensed by the State of Georgia, having met the conditions therein.
"Regulated activity" means any activity which will, or which reasonably may be expected to result in the alteration of steep slopes.
"Slope" means the ratio of elevation change to horizontal distance, expressed as a percentage. Slope is computed by dividing the vertical distance ("rise") by the horizontal distance ("run").
"State waters" means as defined by Georgia Erosion Sedimentation Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
"Steep slope" means any slope with a minimum rise of ten feet that has a slope percentage greater than 33 percent (ten-foot vertical "rise" over a 30-foot horizontal "run").
"Steep slopes map" means the latest edition of the Fulton County Government maps for unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia depicting slopes greater than 33 percent generated from the United States Geological Survey, Topography Maps, adopted by unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia.
(d)
Establishment of jurisdictional steep slopes. Although the steep slopes map can be used for concept plan submittals, it does not necessarily represent the boundaries of jurisdictional steep slopes within unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia and shall not serve as a substitute for delineation of steep slope boundaries as identified by a physical topographic site survey, performed by a professional land surveyor. Any local government action under this ordinance shall not relieve the landowner from federal and state permitting requirements.
The steep slopes map is available online in the Fulton County Geographic Information System (GIS) Map Catalog.
(e)
Authority and applicability. The terms and provisions of this section regarding undeveloped, undisturbed steep slopes, established herein, shall apply to all development which requires issuance of a land disturbance permit within unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia.
The terms and provisions of this section regarding grading, established herein, shall apply to all residential development which requires issuance of a land disturbance permit within unincorporated Fulton County, Georgia.
No land disturbance permit will be issued by the department without it being determined that the proposed development is in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(f)
Slope construction restrictions. Table 1 below provides development restrictions for each steep slope category. These restrictions apply to contiguous land areas greater than 5,000 square feet.
Table 1-Slope Development Restrictions
EXPAND
Slope Category Illustration of slope type (Rise over Run) Development Restrictions
Greater than 33%, but less than 40% 3.4 ft. rise over 10-ft run = (34%) slope Building and site preparation may not occur unless a plan is submitted by a design professional of record (licensed professional engineer or landscape architect) and approved by the Department. The plan must meet the requirements of this ordinance (subsection (g)). The plan must indicate design/construction techniques that will not have adverse environmental impacts as determined by the Department.
40% or greater 4.0 ft. rise over 10 ft. run = (40%) slope Land disturbing activity shall not be conducted in areas containing 40% or greater slopes unless a variance is granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals (except detention ponds and water quality features are allowed on slopes not exceeding 50%).
  (g)
Grading restrictions. Table 2 below provides grading restrictions with respect to lot area. These restrictions apply to proposed residential development.
Table 2-Grading Restrictions
EXPAND
Lot Area Category Grading Restrictions
Greater than 15,000 square feet Only roads and utilities grading allowed
8,000 square feet to 15,000 square feet No more than 100 feet from the right-of-way shall be disturbed (except roads and utilities). No grading activity allowed in the required rear yard setback.
Less than 8,000 square feet No grading restrictions
  (h)
Steep slopes plan requirements. The following information shall be required for any concept plan for development on a lot or parcel that includes slopes greater than 33 percent in a land disturbance area:
(1)
Steep slope areas on concept plans, based on the on the generalized steep slopes map or field run topography, shall be labeled and identified through cross-hatching and/or separate colors.
(2)
Other engineering and environmental considerations may be required by the department to determine whether the proposed development will create a threat to the public health, safety, and general welfare, or cause slope failure, erosion, or increases in the rate of stormwater discharge entering adjacent properties.
(3)
Steep slope easements (slope areas of 40 percent or greater) shall be recorded on final plat documents as applicable.
(i)
Exemptions. The following shall be exempted from the steep slopes and/or grading requirements of this section as indicated:
(1)
Legal residential lots that have been platted prior to the adoption of this section (exempt from steep slopes and grading restrictions).
(2)
Mining activities permitted by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the Surface Mining Act (exempt from steep slopes and grading restrictions).
(3)
Land disturbing activities conducted for county transportation and water/sewer improvement projects (exempt from steep slopes and grading restrictions).
(4)
Land disturbing activities conducted by any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in Official Code of Georgia Annotated (O.C.G.A. 36-18-1) (exempt from steep slopes and grading restrictions).
(5)
Conservation subdivisions (exempt from steep slopes and grading restrictions).
(6)
Recreation and amenity areas including golf courses, trails and foot paths (exempt from grading restrictions).
(j)
Legally non-conforming use provisions. Concept plans that are part of a zoning or use permit application, or subdivision application submitted to the county prior to the effective date of this ordinance, are exempt from the restrictions in subsections (f) and (g) for three years after the effective date of adoption of this section.
(k)
Appeal procedures. Should the owner of a lot or parcel want to conduct a land disturbing activity in conflict with the requirements of this section, the owner shall request an appeal before the Fulton County Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with Article 22 of the Fulton County Zoning Resolution. An analysis of the direction, rate, and volume of stormwater runoff leaving each area within a slope category is required in addition to the requirements in subsection (h).
(l)
Violations and penalties.
(1)
Upon written notice, work that is being done in contradiction to the provisions of this section shall be stopped immediately.
(2)
A lawfully issued land disturbance permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified upon finding that the holder is in violation of the terms of the permit or any portion of this section. Written notice of this action shall be provided to the holder of the permit who shall comply with the directives contained therein.
(3)
Upon inspection of the site, any individual conducting activity found in violation of this section in regards to disturbance of a steep slopes area shall be fined $1,000.00 per day until such land is replanted to county buffer standards and placed in a conservation easement.
(4)
Upon inspection of the site, any individual conducting activity found in violation of this section in regards to grading shall be fined $1,000.00 per day until such land is replanted to standards as determined by the Fulton County Arborist.
(Ord. No. 06-0169, §§ 1—12, 4-5-06)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 06-0169, §§ 1—12, adopted April 5, 2006, being not specifically amendatory of the Code has been included as § 14-3 at the discretion of the editor.
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 26.
Secs. 14-4—14-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TECHNICAL STANDARDS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention code, § 30-76 et seq.; ordinances pertaining to utilities, ch. 82; resolutions pertaining to utilities, ch. 178.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt technical codes, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(12); minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-36. - Application of codes to existing structures.
The provisions of the building, plumbing, electrical, and heating regulations shall not apply to any existing construction except where conditions are found to be detrimental to public health or safety or conditions that create a public nuisance, but the same shall apply in all cases where repairs or alterations are made to any existing structure and likewise shall apply to all structures now in the course of construction or begun after the passage of these regulations.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-5)
Sec. 14-37. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Estimated cost means the reasonable value of all services, labor, materials, and use of scaffolding and other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the prosecution and completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided that the cost of excavation or grading, and of painting, decorating, or other work that is merely for embellishment or not necessary for the safe and lawful use of the building structure, is not deemed a part of the estimated cost. If actual cost exceeds estimated cost by more than ten percent, fees shall be based on actual cost.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-20)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-38. - Adoption of technical codes.
It is the intent of Fulton County to enforce the latest edition of the following Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. The latest editions of the following Codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
International Building Code (ICC);
National Electrical Code (NFPA);
International Fuel Gas Code (ICC);
International Mechanical Code (ICC);
International Plumbing Code (ICC);
International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings (ICC);
International Energy Conservation Code (ICC);
International Fire Code (ICC);
International Property Maintenance Code (ICC);
Any technical codes previously adopted by the board of commissioners in conflict with the codes listed herein are repealed.
(91-RC-500, 9-18-91; 93-RM-007, 1-6-93; 96-1103, 10-16-96; Ord. No. 98-1179, § 1, 9-2-98; Res. No. 02-1048, 9-18-02; Ord. No. 12-0322, § 1, 4-18-12)
Sec. 14-39. - Adoption of appendices to technical codes.
The appendices of the following codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, are hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein fully:
International Building Code (ICC): Appendices C and I
International Fire Code (ICC): Appendices A (inclusive of the amendments thereto set forth in Section 30-77 of this Code), B, C, D, E and F
Any appendices to State Minimum Standard Codes previously adopted by the board of commissioners in conflict with the appendices listed herein are repealed.
(Res. No. 02-1048, 9-18-02; Ord. No. 12-0322, § 2, 4-18-12)
Sec. 14-40. - Administration of technical codes and appendices.
The administration section of the 2000 International Building Code, as amended by § 14-41, is hereby adopted in its entirety by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County for the proper administration and enforcement of the technical codes and appendices listed in sections 14-38 and 14-39 of the Fulton County Code of Laws.
(Res. No. 02-1048, 9-18-02)
Editor's note— Res. No. 02-1048, adopted September 18, 2002, amended the Code by repealing former § 14-40 in its entirety. Former § 14-40 pertained to modification provisions, and derived from 92-RM-458, adopted October 8, 1992; 96-1252, adopted December 6, 1996; 97-0105, adopted January 8, 1997; and Ord. No. 98-1179, adopted September 2, 1998. Additionally, Res. No. 02-1048 added new provisions to the Code, which has been designated as § 14-40 at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 14-41. - Amendments to the administrative section of the 2000 International Building Code.
The following amendments apply to the administrative section of the 2000 International Building Code, which has been adopted for the proper administration and enforcement of the various standard codes listed in § 14-38 and § 14-39 of the Fulton County Code of Laws:
101.1 Title. Delete and replace as follows:
These regulations shall be known as the Building Codes of Fulton County.
101.2 Scope. Delete and replace as follows:
The provisions of the Construction codes as adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every building, structure or appurtenance connected or attached to such buildings and to those systems within said structures.
101.2 Exception.
Delete the term International Residential Code, and replace with "applicable codes as adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs."
101.4 Add the following:
All references to the International Building Code, International Mechanical Code, International Gas Code and International Plumbing Code shall be substituted with Standard Building Code, Standard Mechanical Code, Standard Gas Code and Standard Plumbing Code respectively as adopted by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. All references to the ICC Electrical code shall be substituted with National Electrical Code.
101.4.7 Delete in its entirety.
102.6 Existing Structures. Delete.
SECTION 103 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY: Delete "Department of Building Safety" and substitute with "Department of Environment and Community Development."
103.1 Creation of Enforcement Agency. Delete in its entirety and insert as follows:
The department of Environment and Community Development is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the building official.
103.3 Deputies. Delete the following sentence:
For the maintenance of existing properties, see the International Property Maintenance Code.
104.9.1 Used materials and equipment. Add the following sentence:
Used equipment shall not be allowed when prohibited by any code adopted by any State agency.
105.2 Work Exempt from Permit.
Amend item 1 as follows:
One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the under roof area does not exceed 150 square feet.
Delete item 2.
Amend item 11 to read as follows:
Swings and other playground equipment.
Add the following:
14.
Roof repair or replacement of roofing material.
15.
Retaining walls less than 4' above grade on all sides along the entire length when located more than 6' from other retaining walls or load bearing structures.
105.3 Application for Permit. Delete the first sentence and in lieu thereof add the following:
To obtain a permit, the owner or his agent shall file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished by the Department of Environment and Community Development for that purpose.
105.5 Expiration. Add the following:
Construction that has been suspended or abandoned shall be that which does not receive approval of an entire inspection as required by section 109.3.
106.1 Submittal Documents. Delete and add the following:
Construction documents, special instructions and structural observation programs, and other data shall be submitted in one or more sets with each application for permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings and accompanying data for the following:
1.
All Group A, E and I occupancies.
2.
Buildings or structures, except one and two family dwellings three stories or more in height.
3.
Buildings or structures 5,000 sq. ft or more in area.
4.
Mercantile occupancies having a gross floor area of 25,000 sq. ft. or more on any single floor.
106.1.1.1 Fire Protection System Shop Drawings. Delete in its entirety and add the following:
Shop drawings for fire protection system(s) shall be submitted to the Fulton County Fire Marshal's office. They shall indicate conformance with this code and the construction documents shall be approved prior to the installation of the system. Shop drawings shall contain all information required by the referenced installation standards in Chapter 9.
106.3.1 Approval of Construction Documents. In the first sentence delete the following: "as Reviewed for Code Compliance."
108.3 Building Permit Valuations. Delete in its entirety and add the following:
The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated value at the time of application. Valuations shall include total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is being issued, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and permanent systems. Final building permit valuation shall be set by the building official.
109.3.7 Energy Efficiency Inspection. Delete in its entirety.
Add Section 109.3.11 to read as follows:
109.3.11 Mechanical and Plumbing Inspections. The holder of the permit shall be responsible for scheduling of such inspection as follows:
1.
Underground inspection shall be made after trenches or ditches are excavated and bedded, piping installed, and before backfill is put in place. When excavated soil contains rocks, broken concrete, frozen chunks and other rubble that would damage or break the piping or cause corrosive action, clean backfill shall be on the job site and shall be used in lieu of the excavated soil.
2.
Rough-in inspection shall be made after the roof; framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place. For a mechanical inspection all ducting and other components to be concealed shall be complete. For a plumbing inspection all sanitary, storm and water distribution pipes shall be roughed-in. Wall and ceiling membranes are not to be installed until these inspections has been approved.
3.
Final inspection for mechanical shall be made upon completion of the mechanical system. Final inspection for plumbing shall be made after the building is completed, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
Exception: Ground-source heat pump loop systems tested in accordance with Section 1208.1.1 shall be permitted to be backfilled prior to inspection.
The requirements of this section shall not be considered to prohibit the operation of any heating equipment or appliances installed to replace existing heating equipment or appliances serving an occupied portion of a structure provided that a request for inspection of such heating equipment or appliances has been filed with the department not more than 48 hours after such replacement work is completed, and before any portion of such equipment or appliance(s) is concealed by any permanent portion of the structure.
Add section 109.3.11.1.
109.3.11.1 Evaluation and follow-up inspection services.
Prior to the approval of a prefabricated construction assembly having concealed mechanical or plumbing work and the issuance of a mechanical or plumbing permit, the code official shall require the submittal of an evaluation report on each prefabricated construction assembly, indicating the complete details of the system, including a description of the system and its components, the basis upon which the system is being evaluated, test results and similar information, and other data as necessary for the code official to determine conformance to this code.
Add section 109.3.11.1.2.
109.3.11.1.2 Evaluation service. The code official shall designate the evaluation service of the approved agency as the evaluation agency and review such agency's evaluation report for adequacy and conformance to this code.
Add section 109.3.11.1.3.
109.3.11.1.3 Follow-up inspection. Except where ready access is provided to mechanical or plumbing systems, service equipment and accessories for complete inspection at the site without disassembly or dismantling, the code official shall conduct the in-plant inspections as frequently as necessary to ensure conformance to the approved evaluation report or shall designate an independent, approved inspection agency to conduct such inspections. The inspection agency shall furnish the code official with the follow-up inspection manual and a report of inspections upon request, and the mechanical system shall have an identifying label permanently affixed to the system indicating the factory inspections have been performed.
Add section 109.3.11.1.4.
109.3.11.1.4 Test and inspection records. Required test and inspection records (or other such records as the code official designates) shall be available to the code official at all times during the fabrication of the mechanical, plumbing or gas system and the erection of the building.
Add section 112.1.
112.1 General. Delete the words "Board of Appeals" and insert instead the "Fulton County Board of Zoning Appeals".
Add section 109.3.11.1.5.
109.3.11.1.5 Testing. Mechanical or plumbing systems shall be tested as required in the Mechanical, Plumbing or Gas Code and in accordance with Sections 903.11.1.1 through 903.11.1.3. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and observed by the code official.
Add section 109.3.11.1.6.
109.3.11.1.6 New, altered, extended or repaired systems. New mechanical, plumbing or gas systems and parts of existing systems, which have been altered, extended, renovated or repaired, shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose leaks and defects.
Add section 109.3.11.1.7.
109.3.11.1.7 Apparatuses, material and labor for tests. Apparatus, material and labor required for testing a mechanical or plumbing system or part thereof shall be furnished by the permit holder.
Add section 109.3.11.1.8.
109.3.11.1.8 Reinspection and testing. Where any work or installation does not pass any initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made to comply with this code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
Add section 109.3.11.1.9.
109.3.11.1.9 Approval. After the prescribed tests and inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with this code, a notice of approval shall be issued by the code official.
Add section 109.3.11.1.10.
109.3.11.1.10 Temporary Connection. The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of a mechanical, plumbing or gas system to the sources of energy for the purpose of testing mechanical or plumbing systems of for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
112.3 Qualifications. Delete in its entirety.
Add section 103.1.1.
103.1.1-Mandatory License Requirements. Only a person or entity engaged in the business of conditioned air contracting, installation and repair, plumbing contracting, installation and repair or electrical installation and repair shall be entitled to a permit under this Code.
Only a person or entity engaged in the business of Electrical Contracting, Conditioned Air Contracting or Plumbing Contracting, Installation and repairing shall be entitled to receive a permit under this Code for such business activities where such person holds a valid Electrical License, Conditioned Air Contracting License or a Master Plumbers License issued by the State of Georgia Construction Industry Licensing Board.
All work requiring a permit under this Code shall be performed by a person or entity holding a valid business license in the State of Georgia.
Exemption: Homeowners performing work in their homes that they occupy or will occupy shall be entitled to receive a permit under this code.
(Res. No. 02-1048, 9-18-02)
Secs. 14-42—14-75. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ULTRA-LOW-FLOW PLUMBING FIXTURES

Sec. 14-76. - Purpose of division.
It is the purpose of this division to require the use of ultra-low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new construction, or when replacing plumbing fixtures during renovation or remodeling of existing buildings, and to require the labeling of plumbing fixtures with information regarding flow rates for the purpose of conserving water to maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies and reduce wastewater flows.
(90-RCM-793, § 1, 11-21-90)
Sec. 14-77. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial building means any type of building other than residential.
Plumbing fixtures means any toilet, urinal, showerhead, bathroom, lavatory and kitchen faucet and replacement aerators.
Residential building means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling, but shall not include a hotel or motel.
Toilet means any fixture consisting of a water flushed bowl with a seat, used for the disposal of human waste.
Urinal means any fixture consisting of a water flushed bowl used for the disposal of human waste.
(90-RCM-793, § 2, 11-21-90)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-78. - Penalties for violation of division.
Any person who violates any provision of this division shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense, and each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(90-RCM-793, § 6, 11-21-90)
Sec. 14-79. - Compliance with and enforcement of division.
(a)
In addition to the penalty provided in section 14-78, Fulton County may take other actions as described below to compel compliance and may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this division.
(b)
Compliance with the requirements for installation and labeling at the time of installation in section 14-80 shall be determined by the director of the department of inspections and permits or his agent in cases of new or replacement plumbing fixture installations, and compliance shall be the condition for receipt of any occupancy permit.
(c)
The department of public works as the water service agency may deny any service connection to an establishment which does not comply with the standards set forth in section 14-80.
(90-RCM-793, § 7, 11-21-90)
Sec. 14-80. - Standards.
No plumbing fixture shall be installed which does not meet the standards listed in subsection (1) of this section. This includes all plumbing fixtures installed in newly constructed buildings or when replacing plumbing fixtures during remodeling or renovation of existing buildings, except as noted in section 14-82. The effective date of this requirement for residential buildings shall be April 1, 1991, and for commercial buildings the effective date shall be July 1, 1992.
(1)
All plumbing fixtures installed as referred to above should not exceed the following maximum water use rates:
EXPAND
a. Toilets 1.6 gallons per flush;
b. Urinals 1.0 gallons per flush;
c. Showerheads 2.5 gallons per minute;
d. Kitchen faucets 2.5 gallons per minute; and
e. Bathroom and lavatory faucets 2.0 gallons per minute.
  (2)
The flow restriction device in a showerhead must be a permanent and an integral part of the showerhead and must not be removable to allow flow rates in excess of that stated in subsection (1) of this section.
(3)
Lavatory faucets located in restrooms intended for use by the general public shall be of the metering or self-closing type, in addition to the flow requirement listed in subsection (1) of this section.
(90-RCM-793, § 3, 11-21-90)
Sec. 14-81. - Product labeling.
Effective July 1, 1991, all toilets, urinals, showerheads, or faucets shall be clearly labeled by the manufacturer to indicate the maximum flow rate or water usage of the fixture. The water use rate of the fixture shall be certified by the manufacturer based on independent test results and using 60 psi for showerheads. The label shall be affixed to the fixture and remain there until the proper building and/or plumbing inspections have been conducted. Also, the product packaging must be clearly marked to identify water use rates when offered for retail sale.
(90-RCM-793, § 4, 11-21-90)
Sec. 14-82. - Exceptions to section 14-80.
The following fixture uses or applications shall be exempt from the standards established in section 14-80.
(1)
Showers and faucets installed for safety purposes, such as emergency eye wash stations, etc.
(2)
Plumbing fixtures specifically designed for use by the physically handicapped.
(3)
Fixtures specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or for installation in correctional institutions which may require more water for proper operation.
(4)
Instances of building renovation where significant plumbing modifications would be required to accommodate the lower flows or for specialized purposes which cannot be accommodated by existing technology. Permission for the exceptions listed here must be obtained from the director of the department of inspections and permits.
(5)
When the repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets, or showerheads within such existing building.
(6)
Toilets for juveniles.
(90-RCM-793, § 5, 11-21-90)
Secs. 14-83—14-115. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COMMERCIAL CAR WASH WATER RECYCLING

Sec. 14-116. - Purpose of division.
It is the purpose of this division to require new commercial in-bay automatic car washes and conveyor car washes, permitted and constructed after September 4, 2013 to install recycled water systems for the purpose of conserving water to maintain the integrity of drinking water supplies and reduce wastewater.
(Ord. No. 13-0715, 9-4-13)
Sec. 14-117. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Conveyor car wash means a commercial car wash where the car moves on a conveyor belt during the wash. The driver of the vehicle can remain in the vehicle or wait outside.
In-bay automatic car wash means a commercial car wash where the driver pulls into the bay and parks the car. The vehicle remains stationary while a machine moves back and forth over the vehicle to clean it, instead of moving through the tunnel.
Recycled water system means a water system that captures and reuses water, regardless of the source, previously used in wash or rinse cycles.
Self-service car wash means a commercial car wash where customers wash their cars themselves with spray wands and brushes.
(Ord. No. 13-0715, 9-4-13)
Sec. 14-118. - General provisions.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purpose of this division is to reduce the water consumption from commercial car wash facilities by requiring all new in-bay and conveyor car washes to install operational recycled water systems.
(b)
Applicability.
(1)
This division applies to all new in-bay automatic car washes and conveyor commercial car washes permitted and constructed after September 4, 2013.
(2)
The provisions of this division do not apply to in-bay car washes and conveyor commercial car washes that were permitted or constructed before September 4, 2013.
(3)
The provisions of this division do not apply to self-service car washes.
(Ord. No. 13-0715, 9-4-13)
Sec. 14-119. - Commercial car wash water recycling requirement.
All new in-bay automatic car washes and conveyor car washes permitted and constructed after September 4, 2013 must install operational recycled water systems.
(Ord. No. 13-0715, 9-4-13)
Secs. 14-120—14-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BUILDING DEMOLITION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 14-131—14-145. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 14-146. - Required; issuance by director of department of inspections and permits.
It shall likewise be the duty of the director of the department of inspections and permits to issue permits for the demolition of buildings or structures, in accordance with the building code, and no building or structure shall be demolished without the owner or demolisher thereof having first applied for and obtained his permit to demolish the same.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-18)
Sec. 14-147. - Fees.
Permit fees for the demolition of a building or structure shall be as fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-19)
Secs. 14-148—14-175. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - MOVING OF BUILDINGS[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to roads and bridges, ch. 62; ordinances pertaining to traffic and vehicles, ch. 78; resolutions pertaining to roads and bridges, ch. 162; resolutions pertaining to traffic and vehicles, ch. 174.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 14-176—14-205. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 14-206. - Required in writing.
Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to move over the roads of any unincorporated area, any house or other building shall apply to and obtain from the director of inspections and licenses of Fulton County a written permit to do so.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-11)
Sec. 14-207. - Form of application.
The director of inspections and permits shall furnish any applicant a form of application which shall be designed to elicit, among other information, the following:
(1)
The name of the person, firm, or corporation performing the moving;
(2)
The origin and destination of the operation;
(3)
The name of the owner of the property from which removed and of the property to which removed and a detailed outline of the route to be followed and the facilities to be used; and
(4)
An estimate of the time involved, including the hours of the day when said operation shall be conducted.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-12)
Sec. 14-208. - Fees.
Fees and compensation for a permit for the removal of a building or structure from one lot to another shall be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-13)
Sec. 14-209. - Legal liability.
Nothing herein shall relieve any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the operation of moving a house or other building from his responsibility therefor or from the requirement imposed upon him by law to take all due precaution during the operation.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-14)
Sec. 14-210. - Procedure upon approval.
(a)
Upon approval of any application and issuance of a permit for removal, the applicant, at least 24 hours before commencing with the moving of a house or building, shall notify the captain of the watch in charge of police in the part of the unincorporated area affected, of the time, date, and route of the move. The applicant shall further request of the police department the assignment of an officer to escort the move, which officer shall be paid for these duties by Fulton County. Within 24 hours after the move, the officer shall file a report to the director of inspections and permits showing the time the move was completed, any deviation in route and any incidents where property was damaged or personal injury occurred.
(b)
The officer shall include, along with the report named in subsection (a) of this section, a request for payment of duties performed, and the request shall be approved by the director of inspections and permits and transmitted to the director of finance for payment.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-15)
Sec. 14-211. - Minimum insurance requirement.
Before issuing a permit, the director of inspections and licenses shall require satisfactory evidence that the applicant has liability insurance coverage with a reputable company during the proposed moving operation in the following amounts:
(1)
A minimum of $25,000.00 for bodily injury to each person;
(2)
Fifty thousand dollars for bodily injuries from each occurrence; and
(3)
Ten thousand dollars damage to property.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-16)
Sec. 14-212. - Penalty for violation of division.
Any person engaged in the moving of a house or building over the roads of any unincorporated area of Fulton County without a written permit as set out herein shall, upon conviction, be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Code 1983, § 31-1-17)
State Law reference— Violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.
Secs. 14-213—14-240. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - NUISANCE ABATEMENT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 03-0497, §§ 1—9, adopted April 2, 2003, was not specifically amendatory of the Code and has been included as art. V, §§ 14-241—14-249 at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 14-241. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "Fulton County Nuisance Abatement Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 1, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-242. - Continued use of other laws and ordinances.
It is the intent of Fulton County that nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or of any department of the county to enforce any provisions of any local act, ordinance, or regulation, nor to prevent punishment of violations thereof; and the powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law or ordinance, legislation, or regulation.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 2, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-243. - Findings.
(a)
The board of commissioners declares and finds that, within the unincorporated areas of Fulton County, there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use, and which are not in compliance with the applicable state or minimum standard codes as adopted by local ordinance or operation of law, or any building, fire, life safety or other codes relating to the safe use of real property and real property improvements, adopted by local ordinance or general nuisance law, and which constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of Fulton County, Georgia, and that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings, or structures.
(b)
The board of commissioners further finds that, within the unincorporated areas of Fulton County, there are in existence conditions or uses of real estate which render adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation, that such uses are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of Fulton County, and that a public necessity exists for the repair of such conditions or the cessation of such uses which render the adjacent real estate unsafe or inimical to safe human habitation.
(c)
The board of commissioners further finds that there exist in the county dwellings, buildings, or structures, which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business uses due to dilapidation, which are not in compliance with applicable codes, which have defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities, which lack adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities, or where other conditions exist rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous, or detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare, or in which drug crimes are being committed, and that power is conferred upon the county under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq., as amended, to exercise the county's police power to repair, close, or demolish such dwellings, buildings, or structures in the manner provide[d] in this article.
(d)
The board of commissioners further finds that in unincorporated Fulton County there exist endangerments to the public health, safety, or welfare as a result of unsanitary or unsafe private property.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 3, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-244. - Intent and purpose.
The Fulton County Board of Commissioners hereby declares it to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish a uniform summary procedure for use in the abatement of public nuisances in unincorporated Fulton County. The provisions hereof are adopted pursuant to the authority provided by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq., as amended. It is the further purpose and intent of this chapter that the procedures established hereunder shall comply with the minimum provisions of O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 4, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-245. - Definitions.
Applicable codes means
(1)
Any optional housing or abatement standard provided in Chapter 2 of Title 8 of the O.C.G.A. as adopted by ordinance or operation of law, or other property maintenance standards as adopted by ordinance or operation of law, or general nuisance law, relative to the safe use of real property;
(2)
Any fire or life safety code as provided for in Chapter 2 of Title 25 of the O.C.G.A.; and
(3)
Any building codes adopted by local ordinance or the minimum standard codes provided in O.C.G.A. Chapter 2 of Title 8 of the O.C.G.A., provided that such building or minimum standard codes for real property improvements shall be deemed to mean those building or minimum standard codes in existence at the time such real property improvements were constructed unless otherwise provided by law.
Closing means causing a dwelling, building, or structure to be vacated and secured against unauthorized entry.
Drug crime means an act which is a violation of the Georgia Controlled Substances Act.
Dwelling, building, or structure means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses, improvements, and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwelling, building, or structure" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage, or processing of crops, livestock, poultry, or other farm products.
Governing authority means the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County, Georgia.
Municipality means any incorporated city within this state.
Owner means the holder of the title to property in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means:
(1)
Persons in possession of said property and premises;
(2)
Persons having of record in the county in which the dwelling, building, or structure is located any vested right, title, or interest in or lien upon such dwelling, building, or structure or the lot, tract, or parcel of real property upon which the structure is situated or upon which the public health hazard or general nuisance exists based upon a 50 year title examination conducted in accordance with the title standards of the State Bar of Georgia;
(3)
Persons having paid an occupation tax in relation to the subject property within the previous calendar year to the business license division of the Office of the Fulton County Tax Commissioner; or
(4)
Persons having filed a property tax return with the tax commissioner as to the subject property, dwelling, building, or structure for the most recent tax year in which such returns have become due.
Public authority means any member of a governing authority, any housing authority officer, or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county, or state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings, or structures in the county.
Public officer means the officer or officers who are authorized by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7, et seq. and by this article to exercise the powers prescribed by this article or any agent of such officer or officers.
Repair means altering or improving a dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring the structure into compliance with applicable codes and the cleaning or removal of debris, trash, and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building, or structure.
Resident means any person residing in Fulton County on or after the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 5, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-246. - Duties of owners; appointment and designation of public officers; nuisance abatement procedure.
(a)
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within unincorporated Fulton County to (1) construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within unincorporated Fulton County, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure or property in violation of such codes or ordinances; and (2) to keep such property reasonably clean and free of any materials or conditions which create a health or safety hazard either on such dwelling, building, structure or property or to surrounding persons or dwellings, buildings, structures, or properties.
(b)
No owner shall allow any property located within unincorporated Fulton County to be used in the commission of drug crimes.
(c)
The Fulton County Board of Commissioners appoints or designates the director of the department of environment and community development, county fire chief, county police chief, and their designees as public officer(s) to exercise the powers prescribed by this article.
(d)
Whenever a request is filed with a public officer by a public authority; by at least five residents of unincorporated Fulton County; or upon the recommendation of the code enforcement board (following that board's determination that a violation continues to exist despite the board's order(s) to correct said violation and imposition of a fine), provided that there exist five or more affirmative votes for said recommendation, charging that any dwelling, building, or structure:
(1)
Is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use or it appears to the public officer (on his own motion) that the dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use; or
(2)
Is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(3)
Constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions, the public officer may, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, file in a court of competent jurisdiction and cause to be served upon the owner of and any parties in interest in such dwelling, building, or structure, a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists. The complaint shall contain a notice that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction at a date and time certain, to be not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference; identify the owner of the parties in interest, state with particularity the factual basis for the action, and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance.
(e)
The parties in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for the hearing.
(f)
If, after such notice and hearing, the court determines that the property, dwelling, building, or structure under consideration meets one or more of the standards enumerated in subsection (d) so as to constitute a public nuisance, the court shall state in writing findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest that have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order which does one of the following:
(1)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into compliance with all applicable codes relevant to the cited violation(s) and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the said dwelling, building, or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property.
For purposes of this article, the court shall make its determination of reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factored in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a Georgia appraiser classification as provided in Chapter 39A of Title 43 of the O.C.G.A., qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in Fulton County.
(g)
The order entered under subsection (f) shall further provide that, if the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed, or demolished. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
(1)
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be removed or demolished; provided, however, that such removal or demolition shall not occur until the Fulton County Manager, in consultation with the Fulton County Attorney, has approved such removal or demolition with respect to the particular property or properties in question.
(h)
Costs of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such costs shall include but not be limited to the costs of demolition, reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, appraisal fees, administrative costs incurred by the tax commissioner, restoration to grade of the real property should it be demolished, and title examination costs. The order should recite the amount of costs incurred by Fulton County as of the date of the order. Upon preparing a final statement of costs, the public officer shall prepare a "lien for costs of abatement" detailing any and all such costs. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition, in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court. The Clerk of Superior Court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of Fulton County and enter the lien for costs abatement on the general execution docket. Such lien should cross-reference the order and include the original caption and case number from the nuisance abatement action. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid in full. After filing a certified copy of the order with the Clerk of Superior Court, the public officer shall forward a copy of the order and a final statement of costs to the tax commissioner.
(i)
It shall be the duty of the Fulton County Tax Commissioner to collect the amount of the lien in conjunction with the collection of ad valorem taxes on the property and to collect the amount of the lien as if it were a real property ad valorem tax, using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically Chapter 4 of Title 48; provided, however, that the limitation of Code Section 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure shall not apply. The Fulton County Tax Commissioner shall remit the amount collected to the Fulton County Board of Commissioners. Thirty days after imposition of the lien, the unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes.
(1)
The Fulton County Board of Commissioners may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with Fulton County agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property of the dwelling, building, or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation. Such contract shall include reimbursement to the county of all amounts and costs incurred in attempting to bring the property into compliance.
(2)
Where the abatement action does not commence in the Superior Court of Fulton County, review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a dwelling, building, or structure shall be by direct appeal to the Superior Court of Fulton County under O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
(3)
The public officers designated herein may issue citations for violations of state minimum standard codes, optional building, fire, life safety, and other codes adopted by ordinance, and conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance, and may (but is not required to) seek to enforce such citation in a court of competent jurisdiction prior to issuing a complaint in rem as provided in this article.
(4)
Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of Fulton County to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 6, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-247. - Determination by public officer that under existing ordinances, dwellings, buildings or structures are vacant and sample of conditions or nuisances.
The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he/she finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure, of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures, or of other residents of the county. Such conditions include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects;
(6)
Uncleanliness; and
(7)
Other additional standards, which may from time to time be adopted and referenced herein by ordinance amendment.
The public officer may determine, under existing ordinances, that a dwelling, building, or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes based upon personal observation or report of a law enforcement agency and evidence of drug crimes being committed.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 7, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-248. - Powers of public officers.
The public officer(s) designated in this article shall have the following powers:
(1)
To investigate conditions in Fulton County in order to determine which dwellings, building, or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use or are vacant, dilapidated, and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises, for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the article; and
(5)
To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the article to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 8, 4-2-03)
Sec. 14-249. - Service of complaints.
(a)
Complaints issued by a public officer pursuant to this article shall be served in the following manner. In all cases, a copy of the complaint and summons shall be conspicuously posted on the subject dwelling, building, or structure within three business days of filing of the complaint and at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. A copy of the complaint and summons shall be served in one of the following ways:
(1)
Personal service upon each owner and party in interest if such parties are residents of Fulton County. Service shall be perfected at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. Service may be made by the public officer designated by ordinance to abate nuisances or by any law enforcement officer of Fulton County; and a return of service, filed with the clerk of the appropriate court, shall be deemed sufficient proof that service was perfected;
(2)
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 5, Chapter 4 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A.; or
(3)
Statutory overnight delivery.
(b)
If any owner or party in interest is a resident of this state but resides outside of Fulton County, service shall be perfected by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the most recent address shown in the county tax records or real estate records of the Clerk of the Superior Court and mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state, whose mailing address is known, shall be served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, mailed at least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing. For nonresidents whose mailing address is unknown, a notice stating the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be published in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements appear in such county once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the hearing.
(d)
In the event either the owner or any party in interest is a minor, estate, an incompetent person, or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or personal representative of such person shall be served, and, if such guardian or personal representative resides outside Fulton County or is a nonresident of this state, he or she shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) of this section. If such owner or party in interest has no guardian or personal representative, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the probate court of Fulton County at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing which judge shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor, estate, or incompetent person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(e)
In the event of unknown persons or unborn remaindermen who are likely to have any rights in the property or interest or the proceeds thereof, the judge of the probate court of Fulton County shall be personally served at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to stand in the place of and protect the rights of such unknown parties or unborn remaindermen.
(f)
In the event the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or if any owner or party in interest cannot, after due diligence, be served as provided in this article, the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect and serve by publication in the manner provided in subsection (c) of this section, and such publication shall be sufficient proof that service was perfected.
(g)
A notice of lis pendens shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court in Fulton County at the time of filing the complaint in the appropriate court. Such notice shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
(h)
Orders and other filings made subsequent to service of the initial complaint shall be served in the manner provided in this Section on the owner and any party in interest who answers the complaint or appears at the hearing. Any party who fails to answer or appear at the hearing shall be deemed to have waived all further notice in the proceedings.
(Ord. No. 03-0497, § 9, 4-2-03)
Secs. 14-250—14-280. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - REGISTRATION OF ABANDONED OR VACANT BUILDINGS

Sec. 14-281. - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the following meanings:
Abandoned or vacant building shall mean:
(1)
A building, the ownership responsibilities of which have been surrendered or relinquished, whether intentionally or by failure to occupy and maintain such property;
(2)
A building for which the owner cannot be identified or located by delivery of certified mail at the last known or registered address, which persistently or repeatedly becomes unprotected or unsecured or, which is or has been occupied by unauthorized persons;
(3)
A building which is empty or remains empty and is not continuously maintained, for 21 consecutive days or longer by occupants having custody or legal right of entry to the property; or
(4)
A building which exhibits dilapidated walls, roofs, doors or windows which will fail to prevent the entry of a trespasser.
Building shall mean any structure with a roof, designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
Certificate of building closure shall mean a certificate issued by the director to the owner of an abandoned or vacant building upon compliance with the provisions of section 14-282.
Director shall mean the director of the department of environment and community development, or his or her designee.
Owner shall mean the holder of the title to property in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
(Ord. No. 10-0498, 5-5-10)
Sec. 14-282. - Notification requirements.
(a)
Any owner who knows or reasonably should know that a building they own is or will become an abandoned or vacant building, or any owner who intends to abandon or vacate a building they own shall:
(1)
File an "abandoned and vacant building certificate application" on a form prescribed by the director setting forth the following: the name, address and contact information of the building owner; the location of the building; the length of time the building has been abandoned or vacant; the estimated length of time the building will remain abandoned or vacant; and the nature of the contents, if any, of the building;
(2)
Remove from the building, in accordance with applicable local, state and federal laws, any hazardous materials; as such term is defined in section 26-76, located inside or on the premises;
(3)
Secure all windows and door openings and ensure that the building is secured from all unauthorized entry continuously, or provide 24-hour onsite security;
(4)
Post "No Trespassing" signs on the property;
(5)
Provide the director with the name, local address, and telephone number of a responsible person who can be contacted in case of emergency. The owner shall cause the name and contact number of the responsible person to be marked on the front of the building;
(6)
As may be required by the director, maintain liability insurance on the building in a form and amount satisfactory to the director, or post a cash bond of not less than $5,000.00 to secure the continued maintenance of the building throughout its vacancy; and
(7)
Pay the appropriate certification fee or renewal fee as set by the board of commissioners and as hereafter amended.
(b)
Upon satisfactory compliance with the provisions of subsection (a) above, the director shall issue a certificate of building closure. Said certificate shall be valid for a period not to exceed 12 months from the date of issuance. Said certificate may be renewed for a period not to exceed 12 months at the discretion of the director subject to continued compliance with this article and the payment of the appropriate renewal fee. Under no circumstances shall a certificate of building closure or any extension thereof exceed 12 months in duration from the date of issuance.
(Ord. No. 10-0498, 5-5-10)
Sec. 14-283. - Signs.
When required by the director pursuant to this article, signs shall be applied on the front of the building in a location visible from the street, and elsewhere as the director may require. Signs shall not be placed over doors, windows, or other openings. Such signs shall state the date of posting the signs, and the most recent date of inspection by the director.
(Ord. No. 10-0498, 5-5-10)
Sec. 14-285. - Enforcement.
(a)
Failure to comply with any provision in this article shall be punishable by a fine of up to $1,000.00. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(b)
No owner of an abandoned or vacant building with a current certificate of building closure shall allow said building to become or remain unsecured or dangerous to the public. If it appears that any such building so certified is unsecured or presents a danger to the public, the director shall send written notification to the owner requiring the owner to promptly secure or cause the building to be secured. If, after notice, the owner fails to secure the building, the director shall immediately proceed to claim the bond held pursuant to section 14-282(a)(6), if any, and may enter the premises and cause the building to be inspected and secured using said proceeds.
(c)
The director, upon being informed of the existence of an abandoned or vacant building without a certificate of building closure, shall cause notice to issue to the owner of the status of the building and shall order said person to immediately obtain a certificate of building closure.
(d)
All unsecured abandoned and vacant buildings shall be immediately referred to the director for a determination as to whether said building constitutes a public nuisance that should be abated pursuant to article V of chapter 14.
(Ord. No. 10-0498, 5-5-10)
Sec. 14-286. - Notices.
Notices required by this article shall be served service shall be perfected by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the most recent address of the addressee shown in the county tax records or real estate records of the clerk of the superior court.
(Ord. No. 10-0498, 5-5-10)
