ARTICLE II. - CRIMINAL DEFENSE OF INDIGENTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Criminal defense of indigents, O.C.G.A. § 17-12-11.

Sec. 10-31. - Title of article.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Defense of Indigents Act" and shall apply to counties of this state having a population of not less than 600,000 as determined by the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1160), page 2052, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - General duty of board of commissioners.
The governing authority of each county of this state having a population of not less than 600,000 as determined by the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census shall provide for the defense of indigents who are subject to criminal proceedings originating in the county by:
(1)
Arranging with the courts of criminal jurisdiction in the county to assign attorneys;
(2)
Arranging with a nonprofit legal aid or defender organization to provide attorneys;
(3)
Establishing and maintaining an office of public defender; or
(4)
Adopting a combination of the choices specified by paragraphs (1) through (3).
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 2; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1160), page 2052, § 2)
Sec. 10-33. - Compensation and expenses of public attorneys or public defenders.
(a)
If the governing authority elects to authorize the courts of criminal jurisdiction in the county to assign public attorneys, each court shall prescribe the compensation of the public attorneys whom it assigns as hereinafter provided and approve the expenses necessarily incurred by them in the defense of indigents under this article. The governing authority of the county shall recommend such attorney fee limits for the several courts in the county as may be prescribed by the courts for the defense of the indigent and such investigation expense as may be necessary and approved by the court. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, however, in extraordinary circumstances the trial court may approve the payment of such additional compensation in excess of the limits stated herein as the trial court may determine and find to be necessary to provide for compensation for protracted representation.
(b)
If the governing authority elects to arrange with a nonprofit legal aid or defender organization to provide public attorneys, the governing authority shall pay therefor the reasonable value of such services as the parties may determine. To the extent feasible, the legal aid and defender organization shall endeavor to supplement such services by procuring the voluntary and uncompensated assistance of members of the bar.
(c)
If the governing authority of a county elects to establish and maintain an office of public defender, the governing authority shall prescribe his compensation. His term of office shall be two years. It shall approve the expenses necessarily incurred by his office in the defense of indigents under this article. The superior court shall appoint the public defender. The said public defender shall not be authorized to engage in the representation of those accused of crime, except in his capacity of public defender, within the county for which he serves as such public defender.
(d)
The compensation and expenses of a public attorney assigned by the courts or the salary and expenses of an office of public defender or nonprofit legal aid or defender organization reasonably allocable to the defense of an indigent shall constitute a lien against the property of the defendant. Said lien shall be docketed in the office of the clerk of the superior court and shall be foreclosed as provided by law. Any funds collected by reason of such lien shall be deposited in the general fund of the county.
(e)
The compensation prescribed in this section shall be in lieu of the compensation provided under O.C.G.A. §§ 17-12-60—17-12-63.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 3)
Sec. 10-34. - Superior courts to provide for defense in absence of other existing arrangement.
Wherein not otherwise provided herein, the superior courts shall provide by rules for the representation of indigents in the courts having criminal jurisdiction in their circuits and in the appellate courts of this state and the courts of the United States where incident thereto.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 4)
Sec. 10-35. - Competence of attorney to defend.
(a)
No person may be given the primary responsibility for representing an indigent under this article unless he is licensed to practice law in the state and is otherwise competent to counsel and defend a person who is charged with a crime.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision in this article to the contrary, no public attorney other than a public defender, assistant public defender, or attorney employed by a nonprofit legal aid and defendant organization shall be assigned under section 10-32(1) hereof or required to represent any indigent defendant under the provisions of this article in any court of this state more frequently than once in any one-week period, and no compensation shall be paid under the provisions of this article or under O.C.G.A. §§ 17-12-60—17-12-62 to any such attorney assigned in violation of this provision.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 5)
Sec. 10-36. - Substitute public attorney.
If at any stage of the proceedings, including [an] appeal, a public attorney or the indigent whom he represents so requests, the court immediately concerned, in its discretion, may assign a substitute public attorney. A person who is so assigned has the same functions with respect to the indigent as the public attorney for whom he is substituted. If the person so assigned is not in the office of the public defender nor in a legal aid or defender organization serving under this article, the court shall prescribe his compensation and approve the expenses necessarily incurred by him in the defense of the indigent.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 6)
Sec. 10-37. - Personnel and facilities of public defender.
(a)
If an office of public defender has been established, the public defender may employ, in the manner and at the compensation prescribed by the governing authority, as many assistant public defenders, clerks, investigators, stenographers and other persons as the governing authority considers necessary for carrying out his responsibilities under this article. Assistant public defenders must be licensed to practice law in the state. A person employed under this section serves at the pleasure of the public defender.
(b)
If an office of public defender has been established, the governing authority shall:
(1)
Provide appropriate facilities (including office space, furniture, equipment, books, postage, and supplies) necessary for carrying out the public defender's responsibilities under this article; or
(2)
Grant the public defender an allowance in lieu of these facilities.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 7)
Sec. 10-38. - Expenses in course of representation.
Any expense, including the cost of a transcript of the trial and any preliminary hearing that is necessarily incurred in representing an indigent under this article and of the other necessary services, facilities and expenses of representation prescribed in section 10-32(2) of this article shall be a public charge in the county on behalf of which the service is performed. Each county shall make such disbursements as are authorized under this article.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 8)
Sec. 10-39. - Records and reports.
(a)
A public attorney shall keep appropriate records respecting each indigent whom he represents under this article.
(b)
Each court-assigned public attorney, the public defender, or the legal aid or defender organization, as the case may be, shall submit a report to the governing authority at the close of a case or at the end of the calendar year, if the case is not closed, showing the following information about each case involved: the status of each case and the expenditures (totalled by kind) made in carrying out the responsibilities imposed by this article in each case. In the case of a court-assigned public attorney or public defender, a copy of the report shall be submitted to the court by which he was appointed or assigned.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 9)
Sec. 10-40. - False oaths.
Any person making a false affirmation in regard to the question of indigence under this article shall be guilty of the offense of false swearing and punished as provided by law.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 10)
Sec. 10-41. - Authority for appropriations.
The governing authority of each county shall have authority pursuant to Ga. Const. (1945) art. VII, § IV, ¶ I and shall appropriate such funds as shall be necessary to meet the expenses to be incurred in the administration of this article.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 11)
Sec. 10-42. - Supersession of article by general law.
In the event that the general assembly, subsequent to the adoption of this article, adopts a general law providing for the defense of indigents in the courts of criminal jurisdiction in the several counties of this state, upon the effective date of such general law, any and all provisions of this article in conflict with such general law shall thereafter be of no further force or effect. Other provisions of this article shall remain in full force and effect.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 373), page 3014, § 12)
Secs. 10-43—10-75. - Reserved.
