ARTICLE IV. - PURCHASING

Sec. 2-306. - County purchasing department—Creation and maintenance.
There is hereby created in each county in this state having a population of 550,000 or more according to the United States census of 1970, or any future United States census, a county purchasing department, which shall be set up, established and maintained under the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners or other county authority.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 1; 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 368), page 3009, § 1; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1165), page 3858, § 1)
Sec. 2-307. - Same—Under direction of purchasing agent; appointment; removal.
The county purchasing department shall be under the direction and supervision of a county purchasing agent who shall be appointed by the board of commissioners or other county authority. Said purchasing agent shall be subject to removal from office by the appointing authority at any time during his tenure of office for just cause.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 2; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), page 1147, § 1)
Sec. 2-308. - Same—Employment of assistants for carrying out functions.
The board of commissioners of the county or other county authority is also authorized to employ such assistants as may be necessary to maintain and carry out the functions of the county purchasing department and fix their salary.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 5)
Sec. 2-309. - Purchasing agent—Bond.
Said county purchasing agent shall for himself and his assistants give a blanket bond in the sum of $25,000.00, payable to the board of commissioners or other county authority, conditioned upon the faithful performance by said official and his assistants of all duties devolved upon them under this article and for the faithful accounting to such county authority for all goods, supplies and money that may come into their hands in their official capacities and to indemnify and save such county authority harmless for and on account of all of their acts in said positions, said bond to be given by said official before entering upon the discharge of his duties and maintained by said official during his entire term, and to be approved by said county authority and filed in the office of said county authority. The premium on said bond shall be paid out of the county treasury.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 3)
Sec. 2-310. - Same—Compensation.
The compensation of said county purchasing agent shall be an annual salary, payable monthly, fixed by the county authority and paid out of the county treasury.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 4)
Sec. 2-311. - Same—Vacancy; appointment of successor.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of county purchasing agent, by death, resignation or otherwise, the said county authority is authorized to appoint a successor to serve as county purchasing agent until the expiration of his term of office.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 6)
Sec. 2-312. - Same—Duties.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, the county purchasing agent shall:
(1)
Prepare and keep on file in his office specifications for all supplies, materials and equipment to be purchased by him, furnishing copies of the same to prospective bidders on request and to the agencies for which the purchases are made, and require certification from such agencies that deliveries are correct as to quality, quantity and conformance to specifications.
(2)
Keep at all times a record of all purchases made by him and of all emergency purchases made by the agencies for which he is authorized to purchase, as well as the amount paid for each item so purchased.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 7; 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 728), page 212, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 2-313. - Purchases generally; exceptions.
All supplies, materials and equipment shall be purchased or procured by the county purchasing agent, except those for the use of the departments under the jurisdiction of the county board of education and county board of public welfare, provided that in the event of an emergency requiring an immediate purchase involving an expenditure of less than $100.00, and does in fact present an emergency requiring immediate purchase, the county manager may, in writing, authorize the immediate purchase of the same by the county purchasing agent, without receiving written bids therefor, but before purchasing, the purchasing agent shall canvass such number of dealers and suppliers as the exigency of the situation will permit and shall make the purchase at the lowest obtainable price.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 8; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1165), page 3858, § 2)
Sec. 2-314. - Expenditures of more than $50,000.00.
If the several parts of the work or labor to be done or the supplies, materials and equipment to be furnished shall together or in part involve the expenditure of more than $50,000.00, such work or labor or supplies, materials, or equipment shall be procured only by contract on public letting founded on sealed bids under such regulations as shall be made by the board of commissioners or other county authority. The terms of such contracts, subject to such regulations and in conformity with law, shall be settled by the county attorney as an act of preliminary specification to a proposal for bids. The agency letting the contract and the board of commissioners may reject all bids if it shall deem it in the interest of the county so to do; if not, it shall, without other consent or approval, award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder. Such bids shall not be accepted after the time limit stated in the proposal for bids and shall not be opened except in the presence of both the county purchasing agent, or the designee thereof, and the head of the agency requesting the items. Tie bids shall be decided by the agency letting the contract. Whenever a contract is awarded to another than the lowest bidder, the agency awarding the same shall file in its office and with said county authority a statement in detail of the reasons therefor.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 9; 1991-RM-165, 5-1-91; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 950), page 1221, § 1; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 731) page 583, § 1)
Sec. 2-315. - Expenditures up to $50,000.00.
If the several parts of the work or labor to be done or the supplies, material, and equipment to be furnished shall together or in part involve an expenditure of more than $2,499.99 but less than $50,000.00, the same may be procured on order awarded to the lowest responsible bidder upon written bids submitted without public advertisement, under such regulation as shall be made by the county authority. Purchase of $2,499.00 or less may be made without competition. All work or labor solicitations, or solicitations for supplies, materials, or equipment to be let shall be made available for public review in the county purchasing office.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 10; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), page 1147, § 2; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1165), page 3358, § 3; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 950), page 1221, § 2; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 731) page 583, § 2)
Sec. 2-315.1. - Compliance with county purchasing and contract compliance provisions and encouraging use of all segments of business community.
Notwithstanding the dollar value of any contract awarded by the board of commissioners, the purchasing agent shall be authorized to investigate all contracts for compliance with all Fulton County Purchasing and Contract Compliance policies and to encourage utilization of all segments of Fulton County's business community which matches the availability in the marketplace.
(19-0853, 11-6-2019; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 731), page 583, § 3; 2020 Ga. Laws, page 4197)
Sec. 2-316. - Method of determining the lowest responsible bidder.
In awarding any contract or determining the lowest responsible bidder for the purpose of awarding a contract, the agency awarding the contract may consider the vendor or bidder's quality of work, general reputation in the community, financial responsibility, previous experience in sales to the public, compliance with a female business enterprise participation plan as adopted by the governing authority of the county or making a good faith effort to comply with the goals of such a plan, compliance with a minority business enterprise participation plan as adopted by the governing authority of the county or making a good faith effort to comply with the goals of such plan, and compliance with nondiscrimination and equal employment opportunity provisions as adopted by the governing authority of the county.
(1993 Ga. Laws (Act No. 398), page 588, § 1)
Sec. 2-317. - Requisitions by county officers to be submitted to purchasing agent.
No expenditure for work, labor, supplies, materials or equipment under contract shall be made unless the necessity thereof be certified to by the agency for the use of which they are intended. All purchases made by the county purchasing agent shall be made only upon receipt of requisitions signed by such officers and employees of the several agencies of the county as may be designated for that purpose by the board of commissioners or other county authority.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 11)
Sec. 2-318. - Purchases to be based on definite specifications.
All purchases made by the county purchasing agent shall be based upon specifications which are definite and certain and which permit of [sic] competition.
(1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 426), page 408, § 12)
Sec. 2-319. - Conditions allowing for award of contract without competition.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a contract may be awarded by the board of commissioners without competition when the county manager and the purchasing agent determine, in writing, upon recommendation of the user department and after the purchasing agent conducts a good faith review of available sources, that there is only one source for the required work, labor, or service to be done or the supplies, materials, or equipment to be furnished. The purchasing agent, in conjunction with the user department, shall conduct negotiations based upon written documentation and estimates provided in writing by the user department as to quality, price, delivery and terms of performance. A contract shall be written based upon the negotiated terms and conditions. A record of all sole source procurement shall be maintained as a public record for a minimum of three years and shall list each contractor's name; the amount and type of each contract; a listing of the work, labor, or service to be done or the supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished under each contract; and the identification number of each contract file. A separate record of sole source procurement shall be maintained as a public record for each fiscal year.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 438), page 978, § 1(14A))
Sec. 2-320. - Conditions for competitive sealed proposals.
When the county manager and the purchasing agent, upon written recommendation of the user department, determine that the use of competitive sealed bidding is not practicable or is not advantageous to the county, a contract may be entered into by the board of commissioners based on competitive sealed proposals, subject to the following conditions:
(1)
This method of solicitation shall only be used after a written determination by the purchasing agent, upon recommendation by the user department and county manager, that the use of competitive sealed bidding is not practicable under the circumstances or is not in the best interests of the county in accordance with regulations promulgated by the board of commissioners.
(2)
Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposal.
(3)
Adequate public notice of the request for proposal shall be given in the same manner as provided for competitive sealed bidding.
(4)
Proposals shall be opened in the same manner as competitive sealed bids, provided that there is no disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors. A register of proposals received shall be prepared and made available for public inspection in the purchasing department.
(5)
The request for proposal shall state the relative importance of price and other evaluation factors.
(6)
As provided in the request for proposal and under policies and procedures to be developed by the county, discussions may be conducted by the purchasing agent, in conjunction with the user department, with reasonable offerors who submit proposals determined by the purchasing agent, and written recommendation of the user department, to be reasonably qualified for being selected for award; such discussions shall be for the purpose of clarification to assure full understanding of and responsiveness to the solicitation requirements. Vendors who make offers, hereinafter referred to as offerors, shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals; and such revisions may be permitted after submission and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
(7)
The award shall be made by the board of commissioners to the responsible offeror whose proposal is determined, upon written recommendation by the county manager, the purchasing agent and the user department, to be in the best interest of the county, taking into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposal. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file shall contain the name and complete identification of the successful offeror and the basis, in writing, upon which the award is made.
(8)
When proposals are received from offerors pursuant to this section or when bids are received from bidders pursuant to section 2-314 of this article are unreasonable or unacceptable as to terms and conditions, or when the lowest responsible bid and offer exceeds available funds and it is determined in writing by the county manager and the purchasing agent, upon recommendations by the user department, that time or circumstances will not permit the delay required to resolicit competitive sealed bids and competitive sealed proposals, a contract may be negotiated and awarded by the board of commissioners pursuant to this section, provided that each responsible bidder or offeror who submitted a response to the original solicitation is notified of the determination and is given a reasonable opportunity to negotiate. The negotiated price shall be lower than the lowest responsible rejected bid and offer of any responsible bidder and offeror under the original solicitation, provided that the board of commissioners may reject all bids or proposals if it shall deem it in the best interest of the county to do so.
(9)
Within five days of the award of the contract, the purchasing agent shall publish the name of the successful bidder or offeror on public display in a conspicuous place in the purchasing department so that it may be easily seen by the public. The public notice shall also show the price or amount for which the contract was let; the work, labor or service to be done; or the supplies, materials, or equipment to be furnished under the contract. All the information required to be placed on public display in a conspicuous place in the purchasing department shall also be recorded in a permanent book to be kept by the county in the purchasing department. Such permanent record shall also contain information recording the names of persons whose bids or offers were rejected. Such records shall always be subject to public inspection upon written notice to the purchasing agent and subject to a reasonable response period by the county.
(10)
After contracts have been awarded, the purchasing agent shall certify to various user departments and agencies of the county government the sources of the work, labor, or service to be done or the supplies, materials, or equipment to be furnished by the contract.
(11)
On all competitive sealed proposals and competitive sealed bids pursuant to section 2-314 of this article received or solicited by the county through its purchasing agent, the following certificate of independent price determination shall be signed and attached to the bid or proposal:
"I certify that this bid or proposal is made without prior understanding, agreement or connection with any corporation, firm or person submitting a bid for the same work, labor or service to be done or the supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished and is in all respects fair and without collusion or fraud. I understand collusive bidding is a violation of state and federal law and can result in fines, prison sentences and civil damages awards. I agree to abide by all conditions of this bid or proposal and certify that I am authorized to sign this bid or proposal for the bidder."
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 438), page 978, § 1(14B))
Sec. 2-321. - Emergency procurement.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the purchasing agent, upon written recommendation by the user department and approval by the county manager, may make emergency procurement of work, labor or service to be done or the supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished when there exists a threat to public health, welfare or safety; provided, however, that such emergency procurement shall be made with such competition as is practicable under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis of the emergency and rationale for the selection of the particular contractor shall be included in the contract file. As soon as possible in such circumstances, a record of each such emergency procurement shall be made and shall set forth the contractor's name, the amount of payment and type of contract, a list of work, labor, or service to be done or the supplies, materials or equipment to be furnished under the contract, and the identification number of the contract file; and such information shall be forwarded to the board of commissioners for ratification and be made a part of the minutes of the next scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners.
(1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 438), page 978, § 1(14C))
Secs. 2-322—2-355. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. No. 13-0052, adopted Jan. 23, 2013, repealed §§ 2-322—2-324, which pertained to debarment; solicitations or awards in violation of law; and the right to protest and due process, respectively, and derived from Ord. No. 99-0594, adopted May 19, 1999; Ord. No. 00-0980, adopted July 19, 2000; and a resolution adopted Sept. 3, 2003.
