ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENTS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Branch offices, § 1-2; courts, ch. 10; elections, ch. 14; medical examiner, § 22-71 et seq.; personnel, ch. 34; tax commissioner, § 58-31 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-31. - Residence requirements.
Employees of Fulton County shall not be required to reside within Fulton County but may reside within any adjacent county. Such employees shall not be penalized in their standing in civil service or otherwise by reason of such residence in adjacent counties.
(1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 900), page 3194, § 1)
Sec. 2-32. - Fees, costs, commissions or other monies; retention a misdemeanor.
(a)
The provisions of any other statute to the contrary notwithstanding, it shall be unlawful for any county officer, official or employee of any county having a population in excess of 500,000, according to the 1960 United States decennial census, or any future census, to retain for his own use any fees, costs, commissions or other monies collected by virtue of his office or employment, and which are the property of the county, under the provisions of this article.
(b)
All fees, costs, commissions or any other monies collected by any officer, official or employee by virtue of his office or employment, or for rendering any service under said office or employment, are hereby declared to be the property of the county, and shall be deposited with the proper county fiscal authority on or before the tenth day of the month following the month in which same are collected.
(c)
Any person who shall intentionally violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
(d)
Willfulness as required herein shall mean the failure to pay over any such money within ten days after demand therefor has been made. Payment of any money after demand therefor has been made, by the county authorities, and in compliance with this section, shall not prevent any person, whether officer, official or employee of the county, from thereafter claiming [the] same, if he, in fact, has legal title thereto or any portion thereof, in any civil proceeding, provided such officer, official or employee, as a condition precedent to said claim, has paid over the money involved to the proper fiscal authority of such county.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 488), page 3148, §§ 1—4)
State Law reference— Punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3.
Secs. 2-33—2-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DEPUTIES

Sec. 2-66. - Appointment; filling of vacancies generally.
The general assembly may provide, however, that the ordinary [now probate judge], sheriff, clerk superior court, tax receiver, tax collector (or tax commissioner as the case may be) and county treasurer, any one or all of them, serving in Fulton County, shall be required to appoint a chief clerk, chief assistant or chief deputy, from among such officer's assistants; the appointment to be made by the person occupying such respective office and to be for such term as the person making the appointment may designate, the term in no event to extend beyond the term of the person making the appointment; and the General Assembly may provide, further, that in said County of Fulton in the event a vacancy occurs in any of the offices here named, that such designated chief clerk, chief assistant or chief deputy may fill out the unexpired term of the person making the appointment, upon qualifying for such office, as provided by law.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 296), page 33, § 1)
Editor's note— The above amendment to Ga. Const. (1877) art. XI, § III was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1188), page 4774. See Ga. Const. (1983) art. XI, § I, ¶ IV.
Sec. 2-67. - Appointment of chief deputies of tax commissioner and county treasurer; resignation; reappointment.
The tax commissioner and county treasurer in Fulton County shall be required to appoint, from among the assistants in their respective offices, a chief deputy and, upon making said appointment, shall notify the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County who shall spread upon its minutes a copy of such appointment. In making said appointment, said officers shall appoint such chief deputy at the will and pleasure of the officer making the appointment, subject to the provisions of Fulton County Civil Service Laws, rules and regulations. If the person so appointed as chief deputy resigns or if by revocation of the appointment or for any other reason the appointment becomes vacated, the person directed by this section to make such appointment shall reappoint a chief deputy and shall notify the board of commissioners of such reappointment so that the same may be spread upon the minutes of such board.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 565, § 1; 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 207), page 2677, § 2; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 515), page 3374, § 1; 1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 61), page 3651, § 1)
Cross reference— Tax commissioner, § 58-31 et seq.
Sec. 2-68. - Appointment of chief assistant treasurer; resignation; reappointment.
The county treasurer serving in the County of Fulton shall likewise be required to appoint from among the assistants in the treasurer's office a chief assistant treasurer in like manner as set out in section 2-67 for the appointment of chief deputies mentioned in section 2-67, and the appointment of such chief assistant treasurer shall be spread upon the minutes of the board of commissioners for Fulton County, Georgia, and be at the will and pleasure of the county treasurer or person making the appointment, and in no event is the appointment to extend beyond the term of office of the person making the appointment. If the person so appointed as chief assistant treasurer, as herein provided, resigns or if by revocation of the appointment, or for any other reason the appointment becomes vacated, the county treasurer shall reappoint a chief assistant treasurer and shall notify the board of commissioners for Fulton County of such reappointment so that the same may be spread upon the minutes of such board.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 565, § 2)
Sec. 2-69. - Appointment of chief clerk to judge of probate court; resignation; reappointment; duties; compensation; limitations of office.
The judge of the probate court serving in Fulton County shall be required to appoint from among the clerks in the office of the probate court a chief clerk to said judge of the probate court, and, upon making such appointment, it shall be spread upon the minutes of the Probate Court of Fulton County and shall likewise be spread upon the minutes of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County. In making said appointment, said judge of the probate court shall appoint such chief clerk at the will and pleasure of the officer making the appointment, subject to the provisions of Fulton County Civil Service Laws, rules and regulations. If the person so appointed as chief clerk, as herein provided, resigns or if by revocation of the appointment, or for any other reason the appointment becomes vacated, the person here directed to make such appointment shall reappoint a chief clerk and notice of such reappointment shall likewise be spread upon the minutes of the probate court and the minutes of the board of commissioners. The chief clerk to said judge of the probate court shall also serve as chief assistant and administrative officer of the probate court and, as such, shall aid the judge of said court in expediting the transaction of the business of said court in such manner as the said judge of the probate court thereof may direct and shall receive as compensation for such services a salary to be paid by the county commission. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the civil service status of such deputy. Without in any way affecting the eligibility of a person to serve as chief clerk to the Judge of the Probate Court of Fulton County, that chief clerk shall not be eligible to fill the vacancy in the office and serve out the unexpired term of that judge of the probate court under section 2-71 of this division unless that chief clerk possesses all the qualifications a person must possess to be eligible for election to, or hold, the office of Judge of the Probate Court of Fulton County.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 565, § 3; 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 207), page 2677, § 1; 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 515), page 3374, § 2; 1982 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1094), page 4392, § 1)
Cross reference— Probate court, § 10-421 et seq.
Sec. 2-70. - Chief deputy clerk of superior court; appointment; resignation; reappointment.
The clerk of the superior court serving in Fulton County shall be required to appoint from among the assistants in the office of said clerk a chief deputy clerk and upon making said appointment the same shall be spread upon the minutes of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Fulton County and shall likewise be spread upon the minutes of the board of commissioners for Fulton County. In making said appointment said officer shall appoint such chief deputy clerk at the will and pleasure of the person making the appointment, the appointment in no event to extend beyond the term of office of the person making the appointment. If the person so appointed as chief deputy clerk, as herein provided, resigns or if by revocation of the appointment, or for any other reason the appointment becomes vacated, the person so making the appointment shall reappoint a chief deputy clerk and notice of such reappointment shall be spread upon the minutes of the Superior Court of Fulton County and upon the minutes of the board of commissioners for Fulton County.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 565, § 4)
Cross reference— Superior court, § 10-146 et seq.
Sec. 2-71. - Filling of vacancies of probate court judge, clerk of superior court, tax commissioner or county treasurer by respective assistants.
Whenever any vacancy occurs in the office of judge of the probate court, clerk of the superior court, tax commissioner, or treasurer of Fulton County, the person designated pursuant to the provisions of this division by each respective officer as chief clerk, chief assistant, or chief deputy, as the case may be, shall, upon qualifying for such office as provided by law, fill the unexpired term of the officer in which the vacancy exists.
(1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 339), page 565, § 5; 1991 Ga. Laws (Act No. 61), page 3651, § 2)
Cross reference— Superior court, § 10-146 et seq.; probate court, § 10-421 et seq.; tax commissioner, § 58-31 et seq.
Sec. 2-72. - Administrative officer of superior court—Appointment.
The chief deputy clerk of the superior court may serve as administrative officer of the Superior Court of Fulton County and as such aid the judges of said court in expediting the transaction of the business of said court in such manner as the judges thereof may direct. However, if the clerk of the superior court shall deem proper in his discretion, he may appoint a deputy other than the chief deputy clerk to perform the duties of administrative officer of the Superior Court of Fulton County.
(1953 (Nov.-Dec. Sess.) Ga. Laws (Act No. 535), page 2177, § 1(5(a)); 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 404), page 3080, § 1(5(a)))
Sec. 2-73. - Same—Salary.
The salary of the chief deputy clerk of the superior court and of the deputy performing the duties of the administrative officer of the Superior Court of Fulton County, whether both positions are held by the same or by different officers, shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County in the same manner that the salaries of other deputies are fixed.
(1953 (Nov.-Dec. Sess.) Ga. Laws (Act No. 535), page 2177, § 1(5(b)); 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 207), page 2677, § 3; 1961 Ga. Laws (Act No. 404), page 3080, § 1(5(b)); 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 515), page 3374, § 3)
Secs. 2-74—2-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CLERK OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Sec. 2-106. - Appointment; term; duties and powers; bond; oath of office; compensation.
The said commissioners shall, at the first regular session after the passage of this division, or in default thereof, at any succeeding session, appoint a clerk whose term of office shall be two years, or until his successor is appointed and qualified, but who shall be subject to removal at the pleasure of said board, and whose duty it shall be to attend each and all the sessions of the board, to keep regular books of the transactions of the board, and to keep such other books and perform such other duties as shall be required of him by said board of commissioners. Said clerk shall have power to administer oaths, and shall have such other powers as are incident to the duties of his office, which are not judicial in their nature, or as may be conferred on him by said board, but who shall, before entering on the discharge of his duties, enter into a bond, payable to said commissioners and their successors in office, in the sum of $2,000.00, with security to be approved by them, conditioned to well and truly do and perform the duties of his said office, and shall also take and subscribe an oath before one of said commissioners, faithfully to discharge the duties of his said office according to law. Said clerk shall keep an office to be provided and furnished by said county, and shall be in attendance thereat not less than eight hours per day, and shall receive from the county treasury for his services, such sum as shall be determined by said commissioners, not to exceed the sum of $1,500.00 per annum.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws (Act No. 403), page 546, § II)
Editor's note— Portions of the above section pertaining to the term and compensation of the clerk are superseded by the other provisions found in this division.
Sec. 2-107. - Term; removal.
The term of the clerk of said board of commissioners for Fulton County shall be for a term of six years and the person elected to fill such office shall serve for a term of six years or until his successor is appointed and qualified, but said clerk shall be subject to removal at the pleasure of said board.
(1880-81 Ga. Laws (Act No. 403), page 569, § II; 1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 111), page 569, § 1)
Sec. 2-108. - Compensation.
The salary of the Clerk of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County shall be fixed by said commissioners at such sum as in their discretion they think fair and reasonable. And said commissioners shall have the right from time to time to change said salary.
(1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 71), page 589, § 2)
Secs. 2-109—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COUNTY MANAGER[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— The population brackets in the 1947 act compiled in this division were amended by 1961 Ga. Laws, page 3012. The 1961 act was repealed by 1982 Ga. Laws, page 2107, § 54(50). The 1947 act was an amendment to a 1922 act that was codified in Ga. Code (1933) ch. 23-9 and the 1947 act was an exception thereto. The 1922 act has been repealed and no longer appears in the state code. While the 1982 act also repealed 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 368), page 3012, such repealer has been treated as a nullity. (As § 2-144 indicates, the 1947 act has been amended as late as 1970.), for the 1967 act did not amend the 1961 act as the 1982 act indicated.

Sec. 2-141. - Application of division.
In all counties of the State of Georgia having a population of 200,000 or more by the last United States census or any future United States census, the provisions of the original act which is hereby amended shall not apply, but such counties shall be governed by the succeeding provisions of this amendment.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(28))
Sec. 2-142. - Office created; election; term; vacancy.
In all of such counties there is hereby created the office of county manager. Not later than six months following approval of this division, the county manager shall be elected by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of such counties, hereinafter referred to as the county commission, for an indefinite term. In the event of a vacancy in said office from any cause, the county commission shall elect a successor by a majority vote.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(29))
Sec. 2-143. - Suspension or removal.
The county manager may be suspended or removed at the pleasure of the county commission by a majority vote of the county commission. In case of suspension or removal the county manager shall be given a written statement of the reasons for such action. He may within five days from receipt thereof request a public hearing thereon before the county commission, which request shall be filed with the clerk of the county commission. Upon receipt of such request, a hearing shall be set not earlier than ten days, nor later than 15 days from the date of such request. Pending such hearing, and until final action has been taken thereon, the county manager may be suspended from office and all of the duties thereof performed by some other person designated by the county commission to perform such duties. The action of the county commission in suspending or removing the county manager shall be final; provided [however, that] during the period of 12 months immediately following the appointment of any person to the office of county manager, such person may be removed at will by the county commission or other governing authority, without notice, without cause, and without the necessity of any public or private hearing, it being the intention of this provision that a newly appointed county manager shall be on probation for a period of 12 months following his election and qualification.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(30); 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 770), page 24, § 2)
Sec. 2-144. - Eligibility requirements.
No person shall be county manager of any such county before he shall have attained his 25th birthday, but shall not be eligible to hold the office after he reaches the age of 65 years. He shall be of good character, [and] be of proven executive ability and experience. No person related by blood or marriage within the third degree, to any member of the county commission, or who is a member of the county commission, or holder of a public elective office in the county, or in any city or town political subdivision located within the territorial limits of the county, at the time of his appointment or one year prior thereto, shall be eligible for appointment as county manager.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(31); 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 770), page 24, § 1)
Sec. 2-145. - Compensation.
The county manager shall be paid an annual salary to be established by the county governing authority.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(32); 1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 368), page 3012, § 1)
Sec. 2-146. - Bond required.
Before entering upon his duties, the county manager shall give bond in the amount of $25,000.00, payable to the county, upon which bond action may be brought in the name of the county at the instance of the county commission, for any act of misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance. The premium on such bond shall be paid out of the county treasury, and the bond shall be kept by the probate court judge of such county.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(33))
Sec. 2-147. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon his duties, the county manager shall take and subscribe an oath, for the faithful performance of his duties under this division, which oath shall be duly entered on the minutes of the county commission.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(34))
Sec. 2-148. - Chief executive of county; executive powers and duties.
The county manager shall be the chief executive officer of the county. It shall be his duty to execute all lawful orders, directions, instructions and all rules and regulations adopted by the county commission consistent with this division and entered upon the minutes of said county commission. He shall have supervision over all employees of the county now or hereafter subject to the jurisdiction of the county commission. The county manager shall be the appointing authority for the heads of all departments where the power of appointment is now or hereafter vested in the county commission, except the county attorneys, auditors and clerk of the county commission. Subject to civil service rules and regulations, where applicable, the county manager shall be the appointing authority for all employees whose appointment is now or hereafter vested in the county commission, and shall have the right to employ and discharge the same; and subject to civil service rules and regulations to prepare and to recommend salary scales for all county employees; to prescribe the duties and supervise the work of county employees; to require reports from heads of departments, and other employees trusted with administrative duties or exercising discretion. The county manager shall have at all times the authority to examine all books and papers of every officer and department of the county.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(35))
Sec. 2-149. - Purchasing authority.
Subject to rules established by the county commission, the county manager shall authorize all purchases for the county, subject only to the laws requiring advertisement and bids. He shall approve all requests for supplies and materials before same shall be delivered from any county warehouse or storage, shall supervise the disbursement of all county funds, and shall render such reports as may be required by the county commission. The county manager may delegate purely administrative duties to subordinates in the county government, whose work the county manager shall supervise and direct; provided, however, the delegation or assignment of duties to subordinates shall not relieve the county manager from his responsibilities for administration of county affairs.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(36))
Sec. 2-150. - Political activity.
The county manager shall not engage in or be concerned with any partisan politics or any political campaign. He shall not contribute to any campaign fund or solicit funds for political purposes from any other person. He shall not appoint any relative as an employee of such county, unless such relative shall qualify and become eligible for appointment under the civil service and be recommended by the civil service board. He shall not be eligible for election as a member of the county commission for a period of four years after termination of his service as county manager.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(37))
Sec. 2-151. - Obligation to office.
The county manager shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office and shall maintain his office at the courthouse or county office building.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(38))
Sec. 2-152. - Authority generally; limitations.
As chief executive officer of such county, it shall be the duty of the county manager to conduct, supervise and administer all county affairs, subject only to the general law, to rules prescribed by the county commission, and subject to the right of the county commission to review, repeal or modify any action of the county manager which is contrary to the general law or such rules, by a vote of a majority of the county commission at any subsequent, regular or called meeting, when such vote thus reviewing, repealing or modifying the action of the county manager shall be entered in writing on the minutes of the county commission.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(39))
Sec. 2-153. - Public works responsibilities.
The county manager shall receive all requests for public work; road building; repairs to bridges and roads and public buildings; the construction of water and sewer mains; [and] the opening, grading and improving of public roads and sidewalks. It shall be his duty to investigate and recommend to the county commission a program for all of such work, provided nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the county manager from performing immediately any work in an emergency that is necessary to protect the interests of the county or the citizens thereof. It shall be the duty of the county manager to receive and consider requests for appropriations of county funds, all of which he shall investigate and report to the county commission, with his recommendation thereon.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(40))
Sec. 2-154. - Submission of requests and reports of county officers and departments.
All requests and reports of county officers and departments shall be made to the county manager for his recommendation to the county commission. The use and disposition of county property shall be under the supervision and direction of the county manager, subject to approval by the county commission. All claims against the county shall be presented to the county manager, who shall investigate same and report same to the county commission, together with his recommendation thereon.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(41))
Sec. 2-155. - Budget preparation, recommendation and execution.
The county manager, with the cooperation of the county auditor, shall prepare and recommend to the county commission a budget for each calendar year. When the budget has been prepared and adopted as provided by law, it shall be the duty of the county manager to execute said budget. No department or officer of county government shall exceed the budget without the approval of the county commission.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(42))
Sec. 2-156. - Investigation of tax digests; recommendation of tax levies for balancing budget.
It shall be the duty of the county manager to investigate the tax digests and to recommend to the county commission the levy of a sufficient tax upon all property of such county, which tax, together with all other sources of revenue which may lawfully be anticipated, shall be sufficient to balance the budget, after same has been adopted.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(43))
State Law reference— Preparation of proposed budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5.
Sec. 2-157. - Orders, directions and instructions from county commission.
All orders, directions and instructions from the county commission to the county manager shall be duly entered on the minutes of the county commission. No member of the county commission shall privately issue orders to the county manager or interfere with the county manager in the administration of his duties.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 17), page 100, § I(44))
Secs. 2-158—2-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - COUNTY ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-191. - County attorney to direct law department; election; term; compensation; removal.
The Law Department of Fulton County shall be under the direction of the county attorney, who shall be elected by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County for a term of four years except that the term of the first County Attorney of Fulton County to be elected after approval of this division shall expire December 31, 1950. The county attorney shall receive monthly compensation totaling not less than $11,000.00 per year. The county attorney may be removed from office after conviction by majority vote of all members of the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County of either malfeasance, nonfeasance or misfeasance in office at public trial on written charges preferred of which charges the county attorney shall have ten days' notice in writing.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § II; 1955 Ga. Laws (Act No. 126), page 2347, § 2)
Sec. 2-192. - Composition of law department.
The Law Department of Fulton County shall consist of the county attorney and such assistant county attorneys and clerical and other assistance as are now or may hereafter be provided.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § I)
Sec. 2-193. - Appointment of assistant county attorneys.
The county attorney shall have the right to appoint three assistant county attorneys, each of whom shall be paid out of the county treasury, compensation of not less than $4,800.00 per year, payable in equal monthly payments.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § III)
Sec. 2-194. - Appointment and removal of personnel of law department.
The county attorney shall have the power of appointing and removing the assistant county attorneys, and such other personnel as may be provided for the law department by the board of commissioners.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § IV)
Sec. 2-195. - Stenographic, clerical and other assistance.
The Law Department of Fulton County shall be furnished with such stenographic, clerical and other assistance as may be required for the transaction of the legal affairs of the county.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § V)
Sec. 2-196. - Duties of law department.
The law department shall conduct the law business of the county; shall represent the county in legal proceedings in which the county is a party; and in proceedings where an officer of the county, in his official capacity, is a party. The department of law shall prepare, when requested to do so by the Board of Commissioners of Fulton County, deeds, leases, contracts and other legal documents required by the business of the county, and shall furnish written opinions upon such subjects as involve the business and operations of the county when requested to do so by the board of commissioners. The law department shall render such legal services as may be consistent with the usual and customary duties of the county attorneys in this state.
(1947 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), page 680, § VI)
Secs. 2-197—2-205. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - COUNTY AUDITOR[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Res. No. 2014-0297, adopted Aug. 6, 2014, set out provisions intended for use as div. 6, §§ 2-226—2-305. Due to these sections already in existance and in use, to avoid duplication of section numbering, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as div. 6, §§ 2-206—2-215.

Sec. 2-206. - Office created; election; term; vacancy.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of county auditor within the office of internal audits. The director of the office of internal audits is herein named as the county auditor. The county auditor must be a certified internal auditor or a certified public accountant, demonstrating at least ten years' experience in public financial and fiscal practices, performance and financial auditing, and municipal or local accounting. The county auditor shall be appointed by a majority of the board of commissioners for an indefinite term. In the event of a vacancy in said office for any cause, the county commission shall elect a successor by a majority vote.
(b)
The county auditor shall not be involved in partisan political activities or the political affairs of the county.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-207. - Suspension or removal.
The county auditor may be suspended or removed at the pleasure of the county commission by a majority vote of the county commission. In case of suspension or removal, the county auditor shall be given a written statement of the reasons for such action. He may, within five days from receipt thereof, request a public hearing thereon before the county commission, which request shall be filed with the clerk of the county commission. Upon receipt of such request, a hearing shall be set not earlier than ten days, nor later than 15 days from the date of such request. Pending such hearing, and until final action has been taken thereon, the county auditor may be suspended from office and all of the duties thereof performed by some other person designated by the county commission to perform such duties. The action of the county commission in suspending or removing the county auditor shall be final; provided however, that during the period of 12 months immediately following the appointment of any person to the office of county auditor, such person may be removed at will by the county commission or other governing authority, without notice, without cause, and without the necessity of any public or private hearing, it being the intention of this provision that a newly appointed county auditor shall be on probation for a period of 12 months following his election and qualification.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-208. - Compensation.
The county auditor shall be paid an annual salary to be established by the county commission.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-209. - Oath of office.
Before entering upon his duties, the county auditor shall take and subscribe an oath, for the faithful performance of his duties under this division, which oath shall be duly entered on the minutes of the county commission.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-210. - Powers and duties.
The county auditor and office of internal audits shall be charged with the following duties and responsibilities:
(1)
To conduct performance and financial audits of all elected officials, departments, offices, boards, programs, agencies, contractors and subcontractors of the county in order to independently determine whether:
a.
Activities and programs being implemented have been authorized by the county commission, state law, or applicable federal law or regulations and are being conducted and funds expended in compliance with applicable laws;
b.
The audited elected official, department, office, board, program, contractor, or subcontractor is acquiring, managing, protecting, and using its resources, including public funds, personnel, property, equipment, and space, economically, efficiently, and effectively and in a manner consistent with the objectives intended by the authorizing entity or enabling legislation;
c.
The audited elected official, department, office, board, program, contractor, or subcontractors' organization, programs, activities, functions, or policies are effective, including the identification of any causes of inefficiencies or uneconomical practices, such as inadequacies in management information systems, internal and administrative procedures, organization structure, use of resources, allocation of personnel, purchasing policies, and equipment;
d.
The desired results or benefits are being achieved;
e.
Financial and other reports are being provided that disclose fairly, accurately, and fully all information that is required by law, that is necessary to ascertain the nature and scope of programs and activities, and that is necessary to establish a proper basis for evaluating the results of programs and activities including the collection of, accounting for, and depositing of revenues and other resources;
f.
Management has established adequate operating and administrative procedures and practices, systems, or accounting internal control systems and internal management controls; and
g.
Indications of fraud, or abuse or illegal acts are present.
(2)
To submit at the beginning of each fiscal year an audit schedule to the county commission for review and comment. The schedule shall include the elected officials, departments, offices, boards, activities, programs, contractors, subcontractors, and agencies subject to audit for the period. This schedule may be amended during the period after review by the audit committee. Additionally, the county auditor may initiate and conduct any other audits deemed necessary;
(3)
To submit an annual report to the county commission with a copy to the county manager indicating audits completed, major findings, corrective actions taken, and significant findings which have not been fully addressed by management;
(4)
To perform such other duties and responsibilities as provided for by the Code of Laws of Fulton County and the county commission.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-211. - Audit committee; established: powers and duties generally; compensation.
(a)
To ensure oversight of the internal audit function, an audit committee is hereby established.
(b)
The initial audit committee shall serve for the calendar years 2015 and 2016.
(c)
The initial audit committee ("committee") shall be composed as follows:
(1)
Five voting members;
(2)
The initial committee members shall include two members of the board of commissioners and three citizens with expertise in the areas of accounting, auditing, internal control and local government operations;
(3)
The citizen members will be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners, may not hold any elected office, may not be employed by the county, nor have any direct or indirect business relationship with the county;
(4)
The citizen member will serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners and may be removed at any time, with or without cause;
(5)
The citizen members shall be paid a stipend of $250.00 for each meeting attended but in no event shall the total stipend for a year exceed $1,000.00; and commissioners who serve as committee members will receive no compensation;
(6)
Members of the committee shall select a chairperson from among its members annually.
(d)
The committee shall meet as needed to perform its duties but shall not meet less than once quarterly and shall be responsible for:
(1)
Developing an audit committee charter and recommending to the board of commissioners for adoption;
(2)
Reviewing the internal auditor's annual audit plan and any proposed amendments and submitting the plan and committee's recommendations to the board of commissioners;
(3)
Ensuring that the internal audit department has no unjustified restrictions or limitations, has access to the necessary resources to properly fulfill its function and provide notice of any deficiencies to the board of commissioners;
(4)
Overseeing the work of any registered public accounting firm employed by the company, including the resolution of any disagreement between management and the independent auditor regarding financial reporting, for the purpose of preparing or issuing an audit report or related work;
(5)
Establishing a procedure for the receipt, retention, review and treatment of submissions by employees, anonymous sources or other sources of complaints and concerns regarding accounting, internal controls, county operations and auditing matters.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14; 15-0289, 5-20-15; 15-0461, 5-20-15)
Sec. 2-212. - Access to records and property.
(a)
All county officers and employees shall allow the county auditor immediate access to any and all books, records, documents, personnel, processes (including meetings) and other requested information, including automated data, pertaining to the business of the county and within their custody regarding powers, duties, activities, organization, property, financial transactions, contracts, and methods of business required to conduct an audit or other official duties. In addition, such officers and employees shall provide access for the auditor to inspect all property, equipment and facilities within their custody. Further, all contracts with outside contractors, vendors and agencies shall include an audit clause to provide for the county auditor's access to all records, and those of their subcontractors, needed to verify compliance with the terms specified in the contract. The county auditor shall not participate in any activity, decision or meeting that would impair independence of such auditor or violate applicable government auditing standards.
(b)
The county auditor shall not publicly disclose any information received during an audit that is considered confidential by nature by any local, state or federal law or regulation.
(c)
Any reports issued by the county auditor shall be made available for public inspection or copying pursuant to the Georgia Open Records Act.
(d)
In the event any county officer or employee shall fail to allow access to any requested information as required in this section, the county commission shall have the power to compel the production of said information by subpoena. If any person duly subpoenaed shall fail to allow access to said information, the county commission shall report such failure to any court of record or judge thereof, who may make such order as shall be proper as to the future production of any such information and who may, after due notice and opportunity to be heard, punish him or her for failure to comply therewith.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-213. - Quality assurance reviews.
(a)
The audit activities of the county auditor's office shall comply with the U.S. Comptroller General's Government Auditing Standards, including requirements for periodic external quality assurance reviews ("peer reviews"). A copy of the written report of the independent review shall be furnished to the county commission and county manager and be made available to the public.
(b)
The county shall provide for the cost of peer reviews from funds appropriated to the county auditor's budget or other in-kind support as appropriate.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-214. - Funding of auditor's office.
The county shall provide funds necessary for the facilities, equipment and staffing of the county auditor's office to carry out the responsibilities specified herein and by ordinance.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14)
Sec. 2-215. - Special audits.
Members of the county commission or the county manager may request the county auditor to perform special audits or assignments of a limited scope intended to determine the accuracy of information provided to the county commission, costs and consequences of recommendations made to the county commission, and other information concerning the performance of elected officials, departments, programs, offices, contractors, or subcontractors, of the county. Requests for special assignments and reviews shall be approved by the audit committee based upon the recommendation of the county auditor and prioritized as deemed appropriate by the county auditor. The county auditor will notify each requester as to whether or not special requests were approved and notify the requester with expected times of completion for special requests.
(Res. No. 2014-0297, 8-6-14; 15-0289, 5-20-15)
Secs. 2-216—2-225. - Reserved.
