ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 102-1. - Personal property left in county buildings.
The county shall not be responsible for any personal funds, property, or articles left in county buildings.
(Code 1983, § 23-3-37)
Sec. 102-2. - Property set aside for 12 months' support; refunds; exceptions.
(a)
When the county advertises for sale through its own initiative, the fi. fa. against any property which has been set aside for a widow's 12 months' support and such property is purchased at the sale so advertised, the county will refund to the purchaser the amount of the bid.
(b)
Whenever any person shall buy and have transferred to himself any tax or sewer fi. fa. and it shall be determined that such property has theretofore or is thereafter set aside as a widow's 12 months' support, the county will not refund the money paid for such property by the bidder at the sale or any part thereof.
(c)
The policies of subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall apply both to tax fi. fa. and to sewer fi. fa.
(Code 1983, § 26-2-4)
Sec. 102-3. - System for official mapping and surveying landmark monuments established; amendment; availability of information; land disturbance; replacement of monuments.
(a)
A system of Fulton County official mapping and surveying landmark monuments is hereby established. The term "monument" used in this section, shall consist of one azimuth monument and one GPS monument per location, positioned and identified as outlined in the Fulton County Monument Specifications, a copy of which was attached as agenda item no. 91-RC-473.
(b)
The official system of Fulton County mapping and surveying landmark monuments is that system documented by the maps and tables attached to agenda item no. 91-RC-473 and made a part hereof.
(c)
As new mapping and surveying monuments are established in Fulton County, the official system of Fulton County mapping and surveying monuments may be amended periodically, by official action of the board of commissioners.
(d)
The Fulton County Department of Public Works, under its authority to permit the disturbance of land, shall keep a current copy of the maps and tables attached hereto available, for the purpose of permitting land disturbance. Such mapped and tabulated information shall be made freely available to the public. Fees will be imposed for the purchase of copies of the official maps and map tables.
(e)
All maps or site drawings accompanying application for the disturbance of land shall be compared to the official system of Fulton County mapping and surveying monuments.
(1)
If, in the opinion of the Fulton County Department of Public Works, a monument which is part of the official system of Fulton County mapping and surveying monuments is endangered by the proposed land disturbance, the utility, developer, landowner, or governmental agency shall be notified and disturbance shall not be permitted until the utility, developer, landowner, or governmental agency shall pay to the county a fee to replace said monument. This fee shall be based upon 105 percent of a per monument replacement cost, to be negotiated by the county on a yearly basis with a registered land surveyor, qualified to set monuments to Fulton County Standards.
(2)
For any proposed development of 25 or more acres, the developer will pay the fee to set one new monument by Fulton County, as defined by the Fulton County monument specifications. This fee shall be paid prior to a land disturbance permit being issued.
(f)
The Fulton County Department of Public Works shall have the authority to require the utility, developer, landowner, or governmental agency to replace damaged or disturbed monuments, as outlined in subsection (e) of this section, or stop all land disturbance activity, until such time as proper fees have been paid to replace the damaged or disturbed monument.
(g)
The Fulton County Department of Public Works shall require that each final plat submittal state:
(1)
Property developed is referenced to an existing monument, as outlined in this section.
(2)
No monuments are disturbed.
(3)
Any new or relocated monuments are established in accordance with this section.
(91-RC-473, §§ 1—7, 8-21-91)
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to planning, ch. 58; resolutions pertaining to planning, ch. 158.
Sec. 102-4. - Public comment period prior to land acquisition or other initiatives.
Prior to the acquisition of land or other initiatives related to the construction of a public project in residential areas, a public comment period will be allowed so as to provide the citizens the opportunity to express concern and gather information pertaining to the impact of the proposed project on the surrounding community.
(94-RM-131, 3-2-94)
Sec. 102-5. - Multiple representation by legal counsel.
Attorneys representing Fulton County boards and/or authorities for a fee shall not engage in multiple representation of such boards and/or authorities, that is, simultaneously represent for a fee more than one board or authority that is either directly or indirectly funded and/or related to the operation of Fulton County government. The county attorney is hereby delegated the responsibility of reviewing counsel assigned to these various boards and authorities and report to the board of commissioners any incidences of multiple representation, and to notify any person that he/she is in violation of this section.
(96-1044, 9-18-96)
Secs. 102-6—102-40. - Reserved.
