ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Ordinances pertaining to general provisions and county governing authority, ch. 1; ordinances pertaining to officers and employees, § 2-36 et seq.; code of ethics, § 2-66 et seq.; county governing authority, § 101-36 et seq.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Officers and employees, § 2-31 et seq.
State Law reference— Constitutional officers generally, Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 102-81. - Defense of officers and employees and payment of claims and judgments.
(a)
Definitions. Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this section govern the construction of this division:
Arises after June 1, 1998 means that this division is intended to apply to all claims and proceedings arising after June 1, 1998, unless prior to June 1, 1998, (1) the county attorney or his/her staff has entered an appearance as counsel of record for the employee in a proceeding or (2) the employee has requested a defense in writing and has been advised by the board or the county attorney in writing that he/she will be provided with a defense in a particular claim and/or proceeding.
Board means the board of Commissioners of Fulton County, Georgia.
Claim includes all claims presented against an employee prior to institution of a proceeding.
Employee means the members of the governing body of Fulton County, supervisors, employees, and other elected or appointed officers and their appointees and employees.
"No sum" is intended to exclude payment of any sum whatsoever including but not limited to compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys fees and costs.
Proceeding means any matter of a civil nature in or before any court or agency of this state or of any other state or of the United States.
(b)
Defense of employees. Whenever any claim is made or proceeding is brought against an employee, either against him asserting personal liability for damages or expenses arising out of the performance of his duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based on negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common law, or other statutory rights and including, professional disciplinary proceedings, whether federal, state, or local, Fulton County shall, upon his timely written request, provide for his defense unless otherwise limited by the terms of this division.
(c)
Grounds for refusal of defense.
(1)
The county shall refuse to provide for the defense of a claim or proceeding brought against an employee if it determines that:
a.
The act or omission did not arise out of and in the course of his employment;
b.
The employee acted or failed to act because of actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice on his part;
c.
Provision of a defense against the claim or proceeding would not be in the best interests of Fulton County;
d.
The proceeding is a criminal prosecution; provided, however, that a defense shall not be refused where the criminal prosecution is one for an alleged violation of the Georgia Open Records Act or Georgia Open Meetings Act, and it is determined that the charged employee, officer, or elected official has acted in good faith to comply with the subject Act and has substantially complied with all county policies relating to the subject Act, which determination shall be made by the board of commissioners;
e.
The request was not timely made;
f.
The claim arises out of an act or omission at a time when the employee was under the influence of drugs or intoxicants; or
g.
The act or omission giving rise to the claims was in direct disobedience of an order or instructions of a superior or in contravention of established county policy.
h.
The employee fails to cooperate in the defense of a claim or proceeding which arises after June 1, 1998.
(2)
The determinations required by this section shall be made by the board. For any claim or proceeding that arises after June 1, 1998, the board may refuse, at any time, prior to or after the approval or assumption of the defense, to provide for the defense of an employee if it is determined that any of the grounds for refusal set forth in this section exist.
(3)
Upon approval of the defense of a claim or proceeding against an employee, the board shall refer the matter to the county attorney for disposition. In the event two or more employees or groups of employees are involved, and the interest of one employee or group of employees conflicts with the interests of another employee or group of employees, the board shall specify which employee or group of employees shall be represented by the county attorney and shall authorize other employees or groups of employees to employ counsel at the expense of the county. However, the selection and compensation of such other counsel shall be subject to the prior approval by the board.
(d)
Payment of judgments; compromise and settlement of claims.
(1)
Where defense of a claim or proceeding against an employee is provided by this division, all final judgments awarded to courts of competent jurisdiction against the employee in proceedings to which this division applies or any amount payable under any settlement of such proceeding or of claims in accordance with this division shall be paid by the county as hereinafter provided. All compromises of claims or proceedings governed by this division shall be submitted to the board for its prior approval.
(2)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of settlements, compromises, judgments and claims shall be limited as follows for any claim or proceeding which arises after June 1, 1998.
a.
No sum shall be paid on behalf of any employee who admits, in any sworn statement, administrative, judicial or other legal proceedings, to knowingly and intentionally violated state or federal law and/or the county's policies and procedures.
b.
Whenever there is a final determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the officer or employee, with respect to the act or failure to act giving rise to the subject claim, acted or failed to act because of actual fraud, corruption, or actual malice, the officer or employee shall be required to reimburse the county any amounts paid in defense of the claim, and any amounts paid as a judgment, compromise, or settlement of such claim.
(e)
Exclusions. There is excluded further from the operation of this article any claim or proceeding as to which insurance is provided by Fulton County.
(f)
Construction of section. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of any type of immunity afforded by law. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to constitute the elected or appointed officials and their appointees and employees as employees of Fulton County except for purposes of this division.
(Code 1983, § 22-4-4; 95-0106, 1-18-95; 98-0723, 5-20-98; 99-0874, 6-16-99; 00-1533, 12-20-00)
State Law reference— Defense and indemnification of governing body, O.C.G.A. § 45-9-20 et seq.
Sec. 102-82. - Selection of outside counsel.
(a)
The selection of outside counsel to represent the county, any elected or appointed officer or official, employee, board, agency, or office (collectively, "county-related entities") shall be made by the board of commissioners, upon consultation with, and recommendation from, the Fulton County Attorney.
(b)
Fulton County shall not retain or engage any outside attorney or law firm to represent a county-related entity if such outside attorney or law firm represents any person or entity in any pending claim or lawsuit against Fulton County and/or any other county-related entity, except as provided in section 102-371.5 (employment of law firms with suits pending against the county).
(c)
In the event that any county-related entity purports to retain or engage any outside attorney or law firm in violation of subsection (a) herein, whether the outside attorney or law firm was retained by the county-related entity to represent any person or entity in any pending claim or lawsuit against Fulton County and/or any other county-related entity, or for any other matter, any and all financial obligations, damages, or claims resulting from such purported retention or engagement shall not be paid from taxpayer funds, the county treasury or other funds included within any budget approved by the Fulton County Board of Commissioners.
(d)
In the event that, as of the effective date of this section 102-82, any county-related entity is utilizing the services of an outside attorney or law firm whose retention or engagement would be prohibited by this section, such representation shall be transitioned to other legal counsel in accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection (a) above within 60 days of the effective date of this section.
(e)
The Fulton County Attorney shall be authorized to waive the provisions of subsection (b) above on a case-by-case basis, if the county attorney determines that 1) such representation is not prohibited by the Rules of Professional Conduct of the State Bar of Georgia, 2) the separate representation does not involve a claim for any monetary damages against the county and/or other county-related entity, and 3) otherwise will not adversely affect the interests of Fulton County or any other county-related entity.
(15-1114, 12-16-15)
Secs. 102-83—102-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CLERK TO BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— County governing authority, § 101-36 et seq.
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—Clerk to board of commissioners, § 2-106 et seq.

Sec. 102-111. - Duties of deputy clerk.
Wherever in this division the word "clerk" appears, the same shall include the deputy clerk, who shall serve in the absence of the clerk, and where the provision of this division refers to any action of the clerk in furnishing or otherwise transmitting minutes or excerpts therefrom, without certification, the term "clerk" shall include the deputy clerk.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-6)
Sec. 102-112. - Procedure for keeping minutes; attendance at commission meetings.
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the county commission, or in his absence, the deputy clerk, to attend all meetings of the county commission and to keep faithful and accurate records of all such meetings.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-1)
Sec. 102-113. - Preparation of minutes.
It shall be the duty of the clerk, after the adjournment of the meeting or after a recess in any session thereof, if such meeting is not adjourned, to prepare in written form, the minutes of such meeting, using as his sources therefor, any notes, memoranda, or other materials which may be available as an aid to his memory, of all transactions which occurred at such meeting and the action of the county commission thereon, which written record shall be prepared and reduced to writing by the clerk independently under his own oath of office and without interference from any other employee or officer of Fulton County, including the commissioners of Fulton County, provided nothing herein shall operate to prohibit or prevent the clerk from using the services of any clerk or stenographer in writing the minutes.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-2)
Sec. 102-114. - Copies of minutes to be furnished to county officers.
It shall be the duty of the clerk, upon the preparation of the preliminary draft of such minutes, to furnish a copy of the same to the county manager, county attorney, and to such other county officers and heads of departments as may be entitled to the same.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-3)
Sec. 102-115. - Alteration of minutes.
After the clerk shall have prepared the original draft of the minutes as described in the preceding sections, he shall not thereafter alter, change, or modify the same except upon orders of and approval by the county commission in a subsequent regular or called meeting, and the fact of such alteration, change, or modification shall itself be noted on the minutes before final approval and ratification of the same by the county commission.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-4)
Sec. 102-116. - Certification of minutes.
The clerk is hereby prohibited from certifying any minutes of the county commission or excerpts therefrom until and unless the minutes from which such excerpt is taken have been ratified and approved by the county commission; provided, however, the clerk may furnish a copy or excerpt of a preliminary draft of the proposed minutes of the county commission without a certification; provided, however, where such excerpts are prepared and furnished by the clerk, there shall be noted thereon that the same are not official minutes but are tentative and as such are not binding on the county or any officer thereof.
(Code 1983, § 22-3-5)
Secs. 102-117—102-145. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COUNTY ATTORNEY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Local Constitutional Amendments and Local Acts reference—County attorney and law department, § 2-191 et seq.

Sec. 102-146. - Suits for collection of accounts.
The legal department shall have blanket authority to proceed by suit on behalf of Fulton County to collect all accounts for ratproofing and similar services turned over to the legal department, where the department is unable to collect without legal procedures.
(Code 1983, § 22-4-1)
Sec. 102-147. - Title searches.
The county attorney is hereby authorized to arrange title searches for such properties as he shall deem to warrant such searches.
(Code 1983, § 22-4-2)
Sec. 102-148. - MARTA eminent domain proceedings.
(a)
Upon a request by MARTA to acquire property by eminent domain proceedings, Fulton County will employ its regular staff of county attorneys and assistant county attorneys to handle such proceedings and represent Fulton County in connection therewith, and such attorneys will handle all stages of such proceedings on behalf of Fulton County including the initial hearing before a special master or assessors and appeals to the superior court or appellate courts.
(b)
The board of commissioners shall pay its attorneys for such MARTA condemnation work at an hourly or other rate which shall be commensurate with the rate charged by other competent attorneys for similar work in the community, which pay shall be in addition to the retainer received by such attorneys from Fulton County, all to be reimbursed to Fulton County along with other expenses by MARTA.
(Code 1983, § 22-4-3)
Sec. 102-149. - Quarterly status report.
The county attorney shall develop and submit a quarterly status report of all actions brought against county employees or elected officials in their individual capacity where the employee or elected official is being represented by the office of the county attorney. The status report shall be presented to the board of commissioners in executive session at their regular meeting on the second Wednesday of the month at the end of each quarter.
(93-RC-047, 1-27-93)
Secs. 102-150—102-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COUNTY CHAPLAIN

Sec. 102-181. - Appointment; removal.
The chaplain shall be appointed by the board of commissioners without term and shall be removable only for cause after public meeting.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-11)
Sec. 102-182. - Travel allowance.
The chaplain shall receive the regular allowance for transportation prescribed for employees of Fulton County.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-12)
Sec. 102-183. - Religious services.
It shall be the duty of the chaplain to plan and administer a program of nonsectarian religious services at all correctional and rehabilitation institutions of Fulton County, Fulton County Jail, and other places prisoners are confined in Fulton County, with the exception of the juvenile detention department, and through his personal efforts, with the cooperation of chaplains on contract and such volunteers as he may enlist and appoint, to provide opportunities for divine worship to all such inmates.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-13)
Sec. 102-184. - Direction of other chaplains.
All services and activities requiring a chaplain shall be under the direction of the county chaplain and no additional compensation shall be authorized for chaplaincy services except those provided under contract by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-14)
Sec. 102-185. - Supervision of entertainment programs.
It shall be the duty of the chaplain to plan, promote, and supervise occasional entertainment and educational programs for inmates confined in the Fulton County correctional and rehabilitation institutions and jail.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-15)
Sec. 102-186. - Inspections of facilities.
It shall be the duty of the chaplain to visit and observe the correctional and rehabilitation institutions and jail of Fulton County, excluding those institutions set apart for youthful offenders, and to consult the inmates thereof and from time to time to suggest and recommend to the county commissioners and to the Warden of Fulton County and to the chief jailer such changes in methods of operation, discipline, diet, privileges, and programs as he may deem advisable, necessary, and beneficial to the inmates and to the officials in charge of such institutions.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-16)
Cross reference— County jail, § 146-61 et seq.
Sec. 102-187. - Official representative.
The Chaplain of Fulton County shall serve as the official religious representative of Fulton County in all matters and on all occasions where a representative of Fulton County is desirable and/or necessary, and as such, shall also investigate, evaluate, and deal with religious groups in proposed undertakings that shall benefit the inmates and/or families of inmates incarcerated in the Fulton County correctional and rehabilitation institutions and jail.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-17)
Sec. 102-188. - Communication between inmates and families; emergency or special privileges.
The chaplain shall attempt to provide communications between inmates and their families concerning genuine needs of the inmate and his or her family, and shall try to alleviate such genuine needs that lie within the jurisdiction, authority, and means of the chaplaincy office. The chaplain shall investigate and make recommendations concerning application for emergency or special privileges for the well-being of the inmate and his family and also for the well-being of the security division of the institution.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-18)
Cross reference— County jail, § 146-61 et seq.
Secs. 102-189—102-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - COUNTY HISTORIAN

Sec. 102-221. - Office created; duties.
(a)
The office of Official Historian of Fulton County is hereby created. The term of the office shall be at the will of the board of commissioners, and the office shall carry no salary.
(b)
The duties of the official historian shall be as specified from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1983, § 23-2-41)
Secs. 102-222—102-250. - Reserved.
