Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WINE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Good moral character means:
(1)
In this article the term "good moral character" shall be construed to mean the propensity of the person to serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and open manner.
(2)
A judgment of guilt in a criminal prosecution or a judgment in a civil action shall not be used in and of itself as proof of a person's lack of good moral character. It may be used as evidence in the determination and when so used the person shall be notified and shall be permitted to rebut the evidence by showing that:
a.
At the current time he has the ability to, and is likely to, serve the public in a fair, honest and open manner; and
b.
He is rehabilitated, or that the substance of the former offense is not reasonably related to the occupation or profession for which he seeks a business license or business permit.
(3)
The following criminal records shall not be used, examined, or requested by the city in a determination of good moral character when used as a requirement to obtain a business license or business permit:
a.
Records of an arrest not followed by a conviction.
b.
Records of a conviction which has been reversed or vacated, including the arrest records relevant to that conviction.
c.
Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor or a felony unrelated to the person's likelihood to serve the public in a fair, honest, and open manner.
d.
Records of an arrest or conviction for a misdemeanor for the conviction of which a person may not be incarcerated in a jail or prison.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
School building or educational building means and shall apply only to state, county, city, or church school buildings and to such buildings at such other schools in which are taught subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state and which are public schools or private schools as defined in O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690(b).
State law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2; sales of alcoholic beverages near churches, schools, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-32. - Hours of sale.
No wine shall be sold at any business establishment licensed according to this article after 12:00 midnight nor before 7:00 a.m. of any legal sales date.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 11, 5-3-1998)
Secs. 6-33—6-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-51. - Issuance requirements.
(a)
No license for the retail sale of wine shall be issued to any individual nor shall any individual be employed by any licensee engaged in the retail sale of wine unless such individual:
(1)
Has attained the age of 25 years;
(2)
Has not been convicted of any felony or any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
(3)
Is a person of good moral character;
(4)
Is a citizen of the United States; and
(5)
Is a resident of the county for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of filing the application; provided, however, that residency by an applicant within the county shall not be a requirement by the board if the applicant designates a resident of the county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
State law reference— Power of local government to regulate, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
(b)
No license for the retail sale of wine shall be issued to anyone who has held such a license and had such license revoked for cause over a period of one year from the date of revocation, nor to any individual who either himself or his employee has been convicted of a violation of any federal, state or local law concerning the manufacture, possession, sale, or transportation of alcoholic beverages, beer, wine, or liquor, or shall have forfeited any bond or pleaded nolo contendere on any charge for any such violation.
State law reference— Powers of regulation, standard for issue or denial of license, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
(c)
No license for the retail sale of wine for off-premises consumption shall be issued unless the building in which wine is to be sold shall be operated primarily as a retail grocery sales outlet, or such other establishment as shall have a retail inventory, excluding wine, of goods for sale as its primary business in excess of $10,000.00, whether such business shall be in the same or separate buildings so long as all of such buildings are located upon the same property tract and within 100 feet of each other.
(d)
No license for the retail sale of wine shall be issued for any establishment located within 300 feet of a school or church or personal residence; such 300 feet determined by measuring in a straight line from the property line of the property on which the building for which the license has been applied to the property line of any school, church, or personal residence closest to such establishment.
(e)
No license for the retail sale of wine shall be issued except in the name of the individual who is either the owner of the premises for which the license is held or the holder of any lease thereon and unless the licensee shall be active in, and solely responsible for, the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted. If the license is to be issued in the name of a partnership, each partner must individually meet the qualifications set forth under this article, and each partner shall submit a separate sworn application for the retail sale of wine as a nonprofit corporation or a private club additional requirements of section 6-53(11) shall be applicable. If the entity applying for the license is a corporation, such corporation shall also apply with section 6-53(11).
(f)
Notwithstanding subsection (e) of this section, if an applicant for a license for the retail sale of malt beverages is not a resident of the county, such license may be issued to the applicant if the applicant:
(1)
Has been a resident of the State of Georgia for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of filing the application;
(2)
Designates a resident of the county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license; and
(3)
Otherwise satisfies the requirements and meets the qualifications of the standards for deciding qualifications for licenses for the sale of malt beverages in the county.
In the event an applicant designates a resident of the county to be responsible for any matter relating to the license, such designated individual must also individually meet the qualifications and satisfy the requirements of the licensee as set out in the standards for deciding qualifications for licenses for the sale of malt beverages in the county.
(Ord. No. 88-005, §§ 2—6, 5-3-1998; Ord. No. 2003-11-01, § 1, 11-4-2003)
Sec. 6-52. - Transfer.
No license for the retail sale of wine shall be transferred to another individual or location by the individual to whom it was issued.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 7, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-53. - Application; contents.
Every applicant for a license to sell wine shall file with the clerk of the board of commissioners an application under oath in such form as may be provided by such commissioners at least ten days prior to the next regularly scheduled or called meeting of such commission disclosing the following:
(1)
Type of license desired (on-premises or off-premises consumption);
(2)
Name and address of the applicant and previous address if present address is less than one year duration;
(3)
Length of time a resident of the state and of the county;
(4)
The applicant's social security number;
(5)
Type, number, location, and description of any other licenses for the sale of wine, malt beverages or spirituous liquors held by the applicant at the time of application;
(6)
Age, sex, height, and weight of applicant;
(7)
Names and addresses of real owner or owners of business and location for which a license is desired and, if different from or additional to applicant, all information as to such owner or owners as is required of the applicant;
(8)
Location of business for which a license is desired;
(9)
A complete set of fingerprints if the applicant through such facilities as may be provided for by the board of commissioners to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2;
(10)
Three credit references and three personal references for applicant; and
(11)
In the case of a corporation, a nonprofit corporation or a private club, the following requirements are applicable:
a.
Corporation:
1.
Copy of Charter;
2.
List of officers and directors of corporation;
3.
List of any stockholders owning more than one percent of the outstanding common or preferred stock of the corporation.
4.
Affidavit of chief executive officer of the corporation under oath that the corporation has authorized properly the individual making the application for such application for such corporation who is either an officer of or is employed by and is responsible for the active management of the corporation's activities regarding the sale of wine at the time of the application.
5.
Separate applications shall be received from both the individual designated in subsection (11)a.4 of this section, and from the chief executive officer of such corporation.
b.
Nonprofit corporation or private club:
1.
Copy of charter;
2.
List of officers and directors of corporation;
3.
Copy of Internal Revenue Service tax exemption letter;
4.
List of officers and directors of corporation;
5.
Affidavit of chief executive officer of the corporation under oath, stating the corporation is operated as a private club admitting only members and their invited guests; and that the corporation has authorized properly the individual applicant who is employed by and is responsible for active management of the corporation's activities regarding the sale of wine at the time of the time of application.
6.
Separate applications shall be received from both the individual designated in subsection (11)a.5 of this section, and from the chief executive officer of such corporation.
As a prerequisite to the issuance of any such permit or license, the applicant shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instance of criminal activity during the two years immediately preceding the date of the application. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the governing authority submitting the fingerprints.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 8, 5-3-1998)
State law reference— Powers of local governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 6-54. - Fee.
Each such application shall be accompanied by $500.00, which, if such license is granted, shall be paid to the county as the annual license fee for such applicant and business establishment and, if not granted, shall be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 9, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-55. - Duration.
Each license so granted shall be for the calendar year in which it is granted beginning January 1 through December 31 of such year, and the annual license fee paid upon granting shall apply only for the year or portion of the year thereof in which the license is granted.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 10, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-56. - Number permitted.
Individuals may not be issued or hold more than one license for the retail sale of wine in the county.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 12, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-57. - Investigation of applicant.
The county sheriff's department shall be requested to verify the application of each applicant as to its particulars required under this article and report the same to the board of commissioners prior to any action upon such application, and all applicants under this article do, by virtue of the submission of such application, consent to such investigation and verification of such application.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 13, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-58. - Required for sale or possession; display.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or possess for the purpose of sale, any wine without a license from the county to sell, or possess for sale such beverages, which shall be prominently displayed at all times in the premises for which the license is issued.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 14, 5-3-1998)
State law reference— License required, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-3.
Sec. 6-59. - Approval; denial or suspension; hearings.
(a)
All applications for a license to sell wine, after having been presented to the board of commissioners for approval, shall be voted upon by the board of commissioners, and, if approved by a majority vote of such commissioners, the licenses shall be issued by the clerk of the board of commissioners.
(b)
All decisions of the board of commissioners approving, denying, suspending, or revoking the permits or licenses shall be in writing, with the reasons therefor stated, and shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant.
(c)
Upon timely application, any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the governing authority regarding a permit or license shall be afforded a hearing with an opportunity to present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 15, 5-3-1998)
State law reference— Power of local government and requirements for notice and appeal of decision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 6-60. - Classed as grant or privilege; revocation; transfer.
A wine license shall be a mere grant or privilege to carry on business during the term of the license, subject to all terms and conditions imposed by this division, or any future resolution or amendment hereof, and subject to revocation with or without notice or hearing. In the case of revocation, the licensee shall not be entitled to a return of the unearned license fee. All such licenses shall not be transferable to any other individual or entity or to any other location without the express approval of the board of commissioners and shall not convey to any licensee any property right.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 16, 5-3-1998)
State law reference— Business of dealing in alcoholic beverages a privilege subject to regulation, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1.
Sec. 6-61. - Violation of division; grounds for revocation.
(a)
Any violation of the conditions of this division of the issuance of a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Any violation of the provisions of any laws promulgated by the state concerning the sale of wine shall be grounds for immediate revocation of a license by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 88-005, §§ 17, 18, 5-3-1998)
Sec. 6-62. - Excise tax imposed by county; enumeration.
Pursuant to and in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60, the county imposes an excise tax addition to the excise taxes levied by the state as follows:
(1)
On the first sale or use of wine by the package, a tax of $0.22 on each liter sold and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(2)
The manner of imposition, payment, collection and all other procedures related to the tax imposed in subsection (1) of this section shall be identical to those provisions for the excise tax upon malt beverages (O.C.G.A. §§ 3-5-60—3-5-84).
(3)
No county excise tax is imposed in any portion of the county in which a municipality within the county is imposing the same tax on wine sold by the package.
(4)
The exemptions provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 3-6-70 and 3-6-71 shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 88-005, § 19, 5-3-1998)
