Chapter 10 - LAW ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE I. - SHERIFF

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 11), page 2029, which established compensation for the sheriff. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes have been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
Sec. 1. - Salary basis.
The present mode of compensating the sheriff of Turner County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. - Enumeration of salary.
The governing authority of Turner County shall set the annual salary of the sheriff, at an amount not less than the minimum salary provided for sheriffs by the general laws of the State of Georgia and not more than $35,000. If the governing authority does not set a salary for the sheriff, then the salary shall be the minimum salary as provided by the general laws of the State of Georgia. The governing authority of Turner County may change the salary of the sheriff within the amounts specified in this section at any regular meeting of the governing authority.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 1; 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 4), page 3006, § 1; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1156), page 4706, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Collection of fees.
After the effective date of this Act, said officer shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity as long as such services were rendered by virtue of the fact that said officer is the sheriff of Turner County; irrespective of the consideration that said services may not have been rendered in his official capacity as sheriff of said county, but may have been personal, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said County as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 10th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment) into the county treasury, the sheriff shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof.
Sec. 4. - Bed and board of prisoners.
The governing authority of Turner County is hereby authorized to fix the amount to be paid to the sheriff for bed and board of prisoners held in the Turner County jail.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 2; 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 4), page 3006, § 2)
Sec. 5. - Personnel.
The Sheriff of Turner County shall have the sole power and authority to appoint one deputy, who shall be compensated from the funds of Turner County. The sheriff shall also have the authority to appoint any additional personnel with the approval of the governing authority of said county. However, it shall be within the sole power and authority of the sheriff, during his term of office, to designate and name the person, or persons, who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 3)
Sec. 5A. - Repeal.
The sheriff of Turner County, Georgia, shall have the sole power and authority to appoint any qualified person of his choosing to act as secretary for the sheriff's office at compensation to be determined by the sheriff and governing body of said county or by arbitration as provided herein.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 4)
Sec. 6. - Equipment.
All supplies, automobiles which shall be limited to a minimum of two, materials, furnishings, food for prisoners, furniture, utilities, uniforms, radios, radio equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirement shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Turner County. The sheriff shall keep an inventory of all such equipment and shall keep a daily travel log of all county vehicles used by his department. The Sheriff of Turner County shall present a proposed budget for such purposes at the first regular meeting of the governing authority in July of each calendar year.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 5)
Sec. 6A. - Expenses.
The sheriff shall be reimbursed by Turner County for all expenses incurred by the sheriff while on official business outside of the State of Georgia. The sheriff shall present such itemization and documentation of the expenses incurred as shall be required by the commissioners of Turner County.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 3468, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 6)
Sec. 7. - Repeal.
The sheriff of Turner County shall be allowed the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) each, per year, for the purchase of two automobiles to be used in the discharge of his duties, which sum shall be paid from any funds of Turner County available for such purposes. However, the sheriff shall pay for all gasoline, upkeep, taxes and other expenses in connection with the operation of said automobiles.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 7)
Sec. 8. - Firearms.
The sheriff of Turner County shall, at his own expense, furnish all firearms and ammunition used in connection with the operation of his office, except as might be otherwise agreed upon by the governing authority of said county.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 7)
Sec. 9. - Emergency funds.
If, at any time, in the judgment of the sheriff an emergency shall arise by reason of which he would be unable to perform his duties without the expenditure of larger amounts than are provided herein, he may apply to the county governing authority for appropriation of additional amounts. The county governing authority shall then act upon the request for additional funds within fifteen [15] days from the submission of the request, by making available to the sheriff such sum of money, as will be needed to meet said emergency, which shall be determined by the governing authority, or by refusing to make any such funds available.
Sec. 9A. - Repeal.
If at any time, the sheriff and the governing body of said county shall fail to reach an agreement as to any matter concerning the payment of any salaries or expenses of operating and maintaining the sheriff's office, then the matter shall be submitted to arbitration within five days after the request of the sheriff has been submitted to the governing body of said county and they have acted adversely to the sheriff's recommendations or have failed to take any action thereon. Each party shall select one arbitrator who, within 10 days after selection, shall appoint a third arbitrator. The arbitrators shall be freeholders of said county and shall render their decision within 10 days from the naming of the third arbitrator. The arbitrators shall file their decision in writing with the sheriff and governing body, and their decision shall be binding on all parties. Should the two arbitrators as named herein fail to name a third arbitrator within said 10-day period, this fact shall be made known by either party to the presiding Judge of the Superior Court of Turner County, who shall then name the third arbitrator within 5 days after the request has been filed with him.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 8)
Sec. 10. - Records.
The sheriff of Turner County shall keep such books and records as shall be prescribed by the governing authority of said county. All such records shall be open to the inspection of the governing authority of said county and their auditors at all times during the hours for which said office is open for business.
The governing authority of said county shall not act arbitrarily or capriciously in regards to any request by the sheriff for additional funds for the operation of his office, but shall act in good faith and for the best interest of the county in all respects thereto.
Sec. 10A. - Living quarters.
The sheriff, a deputy, or jailer shall live in the living quarters of the jail at all times.
(1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 271), page 3384, § 9)
