Chapter 34 - VACATION RENTAL CABIN DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 34-1. - Title.
The rules and regulations contained herein shall be known as the Meriwether County Vacation Rental Cabin Ordinance.
(Code 1991, § 15-1; Res. No. 10-01, 7-27-2010)
Sec. 34-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Vacation rental cabin means a dwelling unit built for the purpose of rental to guests for short periods of time.
Vacation rental cabin development (development) means a tract of land containing three or more vacation rental cabins.
(Code 1991, § 15-2; Res. No. 10-01, 7-27-2010)
Sec. 34-3. - General procedure.
When any rental cabin development is proposed and before any permit is issued, the owner shall apply for and secure the approval of the proposed development in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Application for preliminary approval.
a.
The owner shall submit a preliminary plat to the health department for approval prior to submission to the director of community development.
b.
After approval by the health department, the owner shall make an application to the director of community development for preliminary plat approval. The application must be accompanied by five copies of the preliminary plat.
c.
The application and/or preliminary plat must include the following:
1.
All proposed cabins and any permanent dwellings that will be located in the development;
2.
The location and means of access (driveway or walkway) to all proposed cabins and any permanent dwellings;
3.
The location of all parking areas;
4.
The location and type of water system that will serve the development;
5.
The location and design of all roads within the development including a typical road section of all interior roads;
6.
The location of any other improvements on the property, including any office buildings and vending areas;
7.
The total acreage of the development;
8.
The location and type of sewer system;
9.
The estimated time for completion;
10.
Land disturbing activity plan.
(2)
Final plat requirements.
a.
The final plat must contain the following statements in bold print on each page: "This development is designed according to the Meriwether County Vacation Rental Cabin Ordinance. This property cannot be subdivided into separate tracts without resubmitting the entire development to the director of community development and conforming to the subdivision regulations and any other development regulations which may apply at that time. All roads within this development are private roads and will not be maintained by the county."
b.
After approval, the final plat must be recorded in the plat records of the county and a recorded copy provided to the director of community development.
(Code 1991, § 15-3; Res. No. 10-01, 7-27-2010)
Sec. 34-4. - Regulations.
(a)
A vacation rental cabin development shall be considered a commercial use and shall be subject to hotel/motel tax.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided herein, all provisions of the subdivision regulations, the soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance, the building codes, and all other county regulations and ordinances apply to vacation rental cabin developments.
(1)
Lot size.
a.
The development will be considered a single parcel and not divisible into separate lots without resubmitting the development to the planning commission as a subdivision and meeting all of the subdivision and development requirements in effect at that time.
b.
The acreage of the development must be at least five acres.
(2)
Cabin density. The total number of cabins in the development shall be limited by the total acreage of the development. There shall be no more than one cabin per acre.
(3)
Road requirements.
a.
All interior road design must be approved by the director of community development and/or public works department prior to the issuance of a grading permit.
b.
Roads within the development must be located so as to minimize grading.
c.
All one-way roads must be clearly marked as one-way.
d.
All dead end roads must end with a cul-de-sac and must be clearly marked as dead end.
e.
All roads must be designed to be easily accessible by emergency vehicles.
f.
All road intersections must comply with the requirements set out in the subdivision regulations.
g.
The entrance road is the road leading from a public road into the development. The entrance road surface shall be of the same kind as the adjoining public road for a distance of at least 60 feet from the intersection and a width of at least 22 feet.
(4)
Cabin construction requirements.
a.
Each cabin must be clearly identified and marked in such a way as to make location easy for emergency vehicles day or night.
b.
Cabins must be rustic in appearance with log or wood exterior. Plans, drawings or photographs of the type of cabins proposed must be submitted to the planning and zoning department along with the preliminary plat.
c.
The development must comply with the Georgia Accessibility Code.
(5)
General regulations.
a.
All developments consisting of ten or more cabins must have personnel on-site during all times the development is open for business.
b.
Unless submitted and approved during the preliminary plat review, permanent residency in any cabin or dwelling is not permitted. If the need for permanent residency for less than a ten-cabin development is determined at a later date, the owner of the development must submit a variance request to the community development department.
c.
All walkways, trails and common areas must be rustic and unobtrusive in appearance.
d.
Any permitted campfires, fire pits or outside cooking areas in the development must be in areas designated by the owner or manager of the development and must have a readily accessible water source and hose located nearby.
e.
All cabins and any approved dwellings must be maintained in a good state of repair.
f.
All trash must be removed from the development on a regular basis and not allowed to accumulate.
g.
The development must be operated free of any nuisances created by noise, smoke, smell, traffic, or other means.
(Code 1991, § 15-4; Res. No. 10-01, 7-27-2010)
Sec. 34-5. - Plat approval fees.
The fee for the preliminary plat shall be established from time to time by the board of commissioners and shall be based on a per dwelling unit in the development. The fee for the final plat shall likewise be established by action of the board based on the number of dwelling units in the development. The term "dwelling unit" shall include rental cabins and any permanent dwellings. The fees of these plats will be on the county's consolidated fee schedule, and available for examination in the county clerk's and the director of community development's offices during normal working hours.
(Code 1991, § 15-5; Res. No. 10-01, 7-27-2010)
