ARTICLE III. - ELECTIONS
DIVISION 1. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[6]
Be it enacted by the general assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 399), page 4760. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Board of election and registration created.
Pursuant to subsection (b) of code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)], there is created the Meriwether County board of elections and registration, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers and duties of the former Meriwether County election superintendent relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and shall have the powers and duties of the Meriwether County board of registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meanings as set forth in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act; the term "commissioners" means the board of commissioners of Meriwether County; and "county" means Meriwether County.
Sec. 3. - Composition of board.
(a)
The board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Meriwether County. All members of the board shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Meriwether County. The Meriwether County board of elections and registration shall select a chairperson from among its members.
(b)
The initial terms of office of two members, as designated in their appointment, shall expire December 31, 2005, and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. The initial term of office of the remaining member of the board shall expire December 31, 2007, and upon the appointment and qualification of that member's successor.
Sec. 4. - Appointment of supervisor of elections.
The board shall appoint a person to serve as the supervisor of elections of Meriwether County. Such position shall be full-time and such person shall be paid a salary to be set by the board and payable from county funds. The supervisor of elections shall generally direct and control the administration of elections and voter registration in Meriwether County. The supervisor of elections shall be supervised by the board and shall be subject to removal from office by the board, with or without cause. The supervisor of elections shall not be a member of the board nor an elected official.
Sec. 5. - Term of office of board members.
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified, except that initial terms of office shall be as provided in subsection (b) of section 3 of this Act;
(2)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed such member and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the commissioners and to the clerk of the superior court of Meriwether County; and
(3)
Be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing, by the judge of the superior court of Meriwether County.
Sec. 6. - Appointment of board members.
(a)
The appointment of each member shall be evidenced by the appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court of Meriwether County no later than 30 days preceding the date on which such member is to take office, stating the name and residence address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court of Meriwether County shall be notified of interim appointments and shall record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(b)
The clerk of the superior court of Meriwether County shall record each such certification on the minutes of that superior court and shall certify the name of each member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members as provided by law for county registrars.
Sec. 7. - Appointment of successors; unexpired term.
(a)
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of a term by reason of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under section 3 of this Act to make the appointment to the office upon expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner set forth in section 3 of this Act.
(b)
If the appointing authority does not, in conformity with this Act, certify an appointment to the board within 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, the judge of the superior court of Meriwether County shall immediately appoint a person to fill the vacancy and shall certify such appointment as provided in section 6 of this Act. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term of office.
Sec. 8. - Initial term.
(a)
The first members of the board under this Act shall be appointed as provided in this Act and take office on July 1, 2003. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the superior court of Meriwether County.
(b)
Before entering upon the duties of office, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for county registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 9. - Powers.
(a)
The Meriwether County board of elections and registration shall be empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the conduct of primaries and elections as election superintendents pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(b)
The board is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code.
(c)
This Act is intended to implement the provisions of subsection (b) of code section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)] and shall be construed liberally so as to effectuate that purpose.
Sec. 10. - Qualifications.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective public office, and the position of membership of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for an elective public office.
Sec. 11. - Conflicts.
Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee of a political party under the provisions of subsection (c) of code section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-111(c)] with regard to the conduct of primaries shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board.
Sec. 12. - Primaries.
(a)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the commissioners or any other public agency to bear any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(b)
The board shall have the authority to serve as municipal registrar and to conduct municipal elections and primaries for any municipal corporation located within Meriwether County if such municipal corporation has entered into a contract for that purpose with the Meriwether County board of commissioners.
Sec. 13. - Expenditure of funds; inform and instruct electors on election.
With the approval of the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of preparing and distributing material solely to inform and instruct electors of the county adequately with regard to elections. No material distributed by the board shall contain or express, in any manner or form, any commentary or expression of opinion or request for support with respect to any political issue or matter of political concern.
Sec. 14. - Organization.
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, may elect from among its membership a vice chairperson, shall determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such actions as are appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with general law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority vote of the members of the board.
Sec. 15. - Meetings.
(a)
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold meetings at the county courthouse in the election headquarters. These meetings shall be held quarterly in years in which there are no county-wide elections and monthly in years in which there are county-wide elections. Any specially called meeting held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after notification of the time and place of the holding of such meeting has been communicated in writing to the supervisor of elections to provide public notice of the meeting as required by law. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be conducted pursuant to chapter 14 of title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to open meetings.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions that shall be amended to include additions or deletions. Such written record shall be subject to article 4 of chapter 18 of title 50 of the O.C.G.A., relating to inspection of public records.
Sec. 16. - Chairperson; compensation of members.
(a)
The chairperson of the board of elections and registration shall chair all meetings of the board and be the spokesperson for the board.
(b)
The members of the board shall receive such compensation for their services as members of the board as may be determined by the board of commissioners of Meriwether County. In addition thereto, they shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(c)
All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of Meriwether County.
Sec. 17. - Expenditure of funds for administrative purposes.
Subject to appropriation of funds by the commissioners, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds to provide for such proper and suitable administrative offices and for such clerical assistants and other employees as the board shall deem appropriate. Compensation for such administrative personnel shall be paid by the board under the county personnel system wholly from county funds. This section shall not be construed so as to require the board to expend any funds simply because they are authorized to do so under this Act. Employees of the board shall be considered county employees for pay, benefits, sick leave, vacation, and for other purposes.
Sec. 18. - Election superintendent; superseded.
Effective on the date the board can first take official action under Section 8 of this Act, the election superintendent of Meriwether County and the board of registrars of Meriwether County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections and registration succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon the chairperson's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
DIVISION 2. - CHIEF MAGISTRATE[7]
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 562), page 4519. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Election of chief magistrate.
The chief magistrate of Meriwether County shall be elected by the qualified voters of Meriwether County in a nonpartisan primary and election. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the chief magistrate shall be elected pursuant to the general elections laws of Georgia.
Sec. 2. - Term.
Beginning with the election held in 2004 and every four years thereafter, the chief magistrate shall be elected at the nonpartisan primary and general election immediately preceding the expiration of the term of office of the chief magistrate and shall take office on January 1 immediately following such election for a term of four years and until such judge's successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 3. - Nomination of candidates by nonpartisan primary.
Candidates for the office of chief magistrate shall be nominated in a nonpartisan primary to be held at the same time as and in conjunction with the general primary every four years. A nominating petition shall not be required to place the name of any such candidate on the primary ballot. A candidate may have his or her name placed on the primary ballot by filing a notice of candidacy with the county election superintendent and by paying the qualifying fee.
Sec. 4. - Nomination of candidates; votes required.
The candidate receiving a majority of votes in the nonpartisan primary shall be the nominee for the office of chief magistrate and shall be the only candidate for such office to have his or her name appear on the general election ballot. In the event no candidate receives a majority of the votes cast, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes for the office shall be in a runoff to be held on the same day as a runoff from the general primary, as provided by state law, to determine which candidate will be on the general election ballot.
Sec. 5. - Election of candidates nonpartisan.
The names of all candidates for the office of chief magistrate shall appear in a separate section of each primary and general election ballot of each elector. No party designation or affiliation shall appear beside the name of any such candidate on any primary or general election ballot, and no candidate for the office of chief magistrate shall be nominated by any political party.
DIVISION 3. - PROBATE COURT JUDGE[8]
Be it enacted by the general assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 2003 Ga. Laws (Act No. 89), page 3681. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Nonpartisan election.
All elections for the office of probate judge of Meriwether County conducted after the effective date of this Act shall be nonpartisan elections as provided for in code section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139]. Such nonpartisan elections shall be held in conjunction with the November general election immediately preceding expiration of the term of office and conducted as provided in chapter 2 of title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the Georgia Election Code.
Sec. 2. - Effect upon authority and eligibility of sitting judge.
Nothing in this Act shall affect the term of office of the probate judge of Meriwether County in office on the effective date of this Act. The sitting probate judge shall serve out the term of office for which he or she was elected and shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself as provided in this Act.
