Chapter 12 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES

Sec. 12-1. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the term "emergency management" shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitations, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services and other human resources, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Ord. of 6-4-1974, § 1)
Sec. 12-2. - Authority of county emergency management director within the city.
The county emergency management director shall have such authority and duties within the city as are assigned in the joint emergency management plan and in county ordinances, both of which are on file in the office of the county clerk, as approved by the mayor.
(Ord. of 6-4-1974, § 2)
Sec. 12-3. - County emergency management.
The county's emergency management organization is established around and jointly with existing county and city departments and agencies as provided in the plan on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord. of 6-4-1974, § 3)
Sec. 12-4. - Emergency powers.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the commissioner, jointly with the mayors of the cities or towns of Warrenton, Norwood, and Camak, or in their absence, a legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists, and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws, and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection, and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Ord. of 6-4-1974, § 4)
Sec. 12-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and county performing emergency functions pursuant to this resolution, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Ord. of 6-4-1974, § 5)
Sec. 12-6. - Pre-disaster hazard mitigation plan.
The Warren County Joint Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plan, a copy of which is on file in the office of the county clerk, is adopted as the official plan for the city. City officials identified in the plan are hereby directed to implement the recommended actions assigned to them in the plan. These officials will report as directed in this plan on their activities. The county planning committee will provide progress reports (as directed in the plan) on the status of the implementation of the plan to the city mayor.
(Res. of 2-7-2006; Res. of 10-13-2013)
