ARTICLE II. - BUILDING INSPECTOR[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees generally, § 2-78 et seq.

Sec. 6-26. - Office created.
There is hereby created in and for the city the office of building inspector.
Sec. 6-27. - Appointment.
The office of building inspector shall be filled by appointment by the city manager.
(Code 1964, § 5-3(102.1))
Sec. 6-28. - Duties generally.
The building inspector shall receive applications required by this Code, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He shall examine the equipment, appliance or system for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of the law and this Code are met. He shall enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, installation, erection, removal, demolitions, use, location, and maintenance of equipment, appliances or systems, except as may be otherwise provided for in other ordinances or regulatory measures. He shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the interests of this city so require, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in this Code and render written reports on the same. To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions or to secure the necessary safeguards, he shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
Sec. 6-29. - Inspections.
(a)
Inspections required under the provisions of this Code shall be made by the building inspector or his duly authorized representatives. Upon presentation of proper credentials, he may enter, at reasonable times, any building, structure or premises in this city to perform any duty imposed upon him by this Code. The building inspector and his authorized representatives are hereby authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this Code, and are hereby invested with all police power necessary for the purpose of making arrests, issuing copies of charges and prosecution of any person or persons as may be charged with any violations of this Code of Ordinances or other ordinances of this city.
(b)
All installations of any equipment, appliance or system for which a permit has been issued as prescribed in this Code shall be subject to inspection by the building official or his duly authorized representatives.
Sec. 6-30. - Rules.
(a)
The building inspector shall promulgate rules as prescribed in this chapter and consistent therewith, it being the intent of this requirement that the standards of federal and state bureaus, national technical organizations or fire underwriters, as the same may be amended from time to time, shall serve as a guide in fixing the minimum rules of practice under this chapter.
(b)
For the purpose of securing for the public the benefits of new developments and yet insuring public safety, the building inspector shall make or cause to be made investigations, or may accept duly authenticated reports from recognized sources of new materials, equipment, appliances, or systems intended for use in this city which are not provided for in this chapter, and shall promulgate rules setting forth the conditions under which such materials, appliances, equipment or systems may be used.
(c)
No rule of the building inspector shall become effective until four (4) weeks after notice of intention to enforce it shall have been given through the publication in a newspaper in general circulation in this city and until a public hearing on the same shall have been held; provided that said public hearing shall not be necessary unless a request shall have been made for such hearing during the said period of publication, by notice to the building inspector. Such rules must be drawn in its proposed form and open to public inspection at the time the notice to enforce is published.
Sec. 6-31. - Records.
(a)
The building inspector shall keep comprehensive records of applications, or permits issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He shall retain on file copies of required plans and all documents relating to equipment, appliances or systems for which a permit has been issued for a period of not less than two (2) years after final inspection.
(b)
All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and sufficient reasons at office hours observed by this city, but shall not be removed from the office of the building inspector.
Secs. 6-32—6-42. - Reserved.
