ARTICLE III. - PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS

Sec. 6-43. - When required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, install, alter or repair or to commence the construction, erection, installation, alteration or repair of any equipment, appliances or systems provided for in this chapter without first filing with the city clerk an application in writing and obtaining a formal permit therefor.
Sec. 6-44. - Application form.
(a)
An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the building inspector may prescribe.
(b)
Such application shall be made by the owner or his authorized representative, and it shall be the responsibility of the owner to see that a permit is obtained before any installation or work is started.
(c)
Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the applicant and of the owner.
(d)
Such application shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be required by the building inspector for an intelligent understanding of the work.
(e)
Each application submitted for permit shall be completed in all particulars in accordance with such form as may be provided for such purpose by the building official, and failure to complete the same and provide all other required information including plans, specifications, and plot diagram, shall be cause to refuse issuance of the permit. Further, each application shall bear the agreement signed by the property owner or his authorized agent acting in his behalf that the permit will be acted upon and the work done in full accordance with all laws, ordinances and regulations of the city and in accordance with the application, plans, specifications and plot diagram. No application shall be approved and no permit granted unless in accordance with the zoning laws of the city and all other laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of the city.
(Code 1964, § 5-3(105.2))
Sec. 6-45. - Application requirements.
All requirements of this article as to filing applications shall be satisfied by filing the same in the office of the city clerk. At the time of submitting such applications, all water, gas, and sewerage tap fees or deposits, and the cost of the installation of driveway pipe, if necessary for access, shall be paid to the clerk. Further the applicant shall submit to the city clerk the required fee based upon the declared cost of improvement shown on the application, which payment shall be deemed and regarded as a deposit and receipt of which shall not finally determine payment of the required fee. The actual amount of the permit fee shall be determined by the building official according to the building valuation determined by him. Such fee so determined shall be paid in full before the permit shall issue.
(Ord. No. 72-23, § 5-3(105.8), 6-5-72)
Sec. 6-46. - Plans and specifications.
(a)
When required by the building inspector two (2) or more copies of specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany every application for a permit required by the provisions of this article. Such drawings and specifications shall contain name and address of designer and information in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with this code. Such information shall be specific, and this chapter shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific information.
(b)
The building inspector may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction and basis of calculations and they shall bear the signature of the person responsible for the design.
(c)
All drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and address of the designer. In the case of buildings or structures of Group A (Assembly), B (Business), and E (Educational), and all buildings or structures exceeding two (2) stories in height or five thousand (5,000) square feet in area and costing fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more except one- and two-family dwellings and farm buildings, such designer shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data.
(Ord. No. 18-06, 6-21-2018)
Sec. 6-47. - Fees.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) below, the fees to be charged for any permit issued under the provisions of this article, shall be as established by the city manager from time to time and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
In the event the city manager desires to amend the fees to be charged for any permit issued under the provisions of this article, the city manager shall first make a report of the proposed change to the mayor and city council at a public city council meeting. The details of the proposed amended fees, including the current fees and the proposed new fees, shall be documented in the minutes of the meeting.
(c)
No amended fee shall be effective until the minutes of the council meeting described in subsection (b) of this section have been adopted and approved by the mayor and city council.
(d)
For the purpose of promoting and incentivizing development and revitalization of areas of the city which are most heavily burdened with blight and dilapidation, the fees contemplated by this section 6-47 may be waived by the city manager for the construction or development or renovation of a single-family home or the demolition of a blighted or dilapidated structure if the property is located within certain designated geographic areas which are identified by resolution of the mayor and council. Said waivers may only last for a maximum of two (2) years per designation. The mayor and council must find that the designated area meets the following criteria for the waiver to be effective as provided herein:
(1)
According to the most recent population data from the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, the residents of the area designated have a low to moderate income level of fifty-one (51) per cent or more;
(2)
The area designated falls within the city's urban redevelopment area;
(3)
There have been less than average building permits issued for the area when compared to the city as a whole; and
(4)
The area has a significant number of vacant and undeveloped lots and/or lots with dilapidated or blighted properties.
(Ord. No. 71-25, § 5-3(107.4), 7-6-71; Ord. No. 19-03, § 1, 3-28-2019; Ord. No. 21-09, §§ 2, 3, 6-3-2021; Ord. No. 21-15, § 2, 12-9-2021)
Sec. 6-48. - Issuance.
(a)
Applications for permits required by the provisions of this article shall be examined within a reasonable time after filing. If, after examination, no objection is found to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the application shall be approved and a permit issued for the proposed work. If examination reveals otherwise, such application shall be rejected, and the applicant notified by a written report or otherwise.
(b)
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provision of this code shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which it authorizes is lawful.
(c)
The issuance of a permit based on applications, plans and/or specifications shall not prevent the building inspector from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said applications, plans and/or specifications or from preventing the work from being carried on thereunder when in violation of this Code of Ordinances or of other ordinances of this city.
(d)
Each permit shall be assigned a number by the building official, and such number shall be posted plainly and conspicuously on the front of the property concerned throughout the period of work under such permit.
(e)
Applications shall be approved or rejected not less than thirty (30) days after a complete application has been submitted.
(Code 1964, § 5-3(106.7); Ord. No. 10-18, § 3, 11-4-2010)
Sec. 6-49. - Conditions of permit.
(a)
All work performed under a permit issued under the provisions of this article shall conform to the approved application and plans and all codes or ordinances governing the work or equipment for which permits were issued. All work shall be performed by an individual (contractor, firm or corporation) licensed to perform such work except when performed by an individual installing, altering or repairing plumbing, plumbing fixtures, air conditioning and heating, air conditioning and heating fixtures, or electrical services in a single-family dwelling owned and occupied by him.
(b)
Individuals, contractors, firms or corporations licensed to perform work governed by this chapter shall register their license number with the building inspector before obtaining permits.
Sec. 6-50. - Expiration.
A permit under which no work is commenced within six (6) months after issuance, or where the work commenced is suspended or abandoned for six (6) months, shall expire by limitation, and fees paid shall be forfeited. The application, plans, and specifications shall be reviewed and a new permit required before work is started or resumed.
Sec. 6-51. - Revocation of permits.
The building official may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation in the application or attachments thereto including plans, specifications, plot diagram, or in case any work is done contrary to the application with attachments or in case such permit was improperly issued or in case it is ascertained that the proposed work authorized under the permit does not comply with all ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
(Code 1964, § 5-3(103.3))
Sec. 6-52. - Certificate of occupancy—Required.
No new building shall be occupied and no change in occupancy of a building or part of a building shall be made until after the building inspector shall have issued a certificate of occupancy therefor. In addition to the above certificate of occupancy, there is also required a state certificate of occupancy for appropriate buildings in accordance with the state safety fire law.
Sec. 6-53. - Same—Contents.
Upon completion of a building erected in accordance with approved plans, and after the final inspection therein referred to, and upon application therefor, the building inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law, the allowable load per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 6-54. - Same—Temporary.
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
Sec. 6-55. - Same—Existing buildings.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building inspector and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with this Code for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building inspector, two (2) sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of this chapter for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
Secs. 6-56—6-67. - Reserved.
