ARTICLE IX. - GAS CODE[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Note— See the editor's note to Art. V of this chapter.
Cross reference— Gas, § 24-124 et seq.

DIVISION I. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-141. - Adoption of Standard Gas Code.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and the city council, for the purpose of establishing standards and procedures affecting the installation of gas systems and gas materials, the Standard Gas Code, 1979 edition, being particularly that code published by the International Building Code, of which code not less than one (1) copy has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk, and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein; and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city. All subsequent changes or edition improvements shall be automatically adopted and incorporated for the city upon publication by the International Building Code.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89; Ord. No. 03-04, 3-6-2003)
Sec. 6-142. - Meter connection and location.
(a)
The piping shall be extended to the meter location designated by the distributor of gas, and a swing joint provided for connecting piping to the meter outlet.
(b)
No gas meter shall be installed or maintained under the floor of any building or structure.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-143. - Applicability to persons outside city using city gas.
Any person having property, premises or buildings not within the corporate limits but within the gas service territory of the city, who desires or is required by law to use or connect with any gas main serving the city, shall conform to the laws and ordinances of the city regulating the installation of gas fitting, the securing of permits for, and the inspection of same, and shall abide by the gas regulations of the city.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-144. - Tampering with gas facilities.
No one except the city natural gas system shall at any time turn on any valve or cock or in any way tamper or make any connection with any gas main, meter, meter connection or gas service pipe between the main and the meter. The user, however may turn off gas at the main jet in case of an emergency.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-145. - Permit fees.
Permit fees for work performed under this article shall be as follows:
For issuing each permit .....$10.00
Residential and commercial permits cost shall be determined on two (2) per cent of the total value of the work performed.
(Ord. No. 97-3, 1-23-97)
Secs. 6-146—6-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - GAS FITTERS

Sec. 6-151. - Examining board created; membership; compensation; vote required; meetings.
There is hereby established a gas fitter's examining board, to be appointed by the mayor and board of aldermen, consisting of the gas manager, building official, one (1) member of the board of aldermen, a person engaged in and thoroughly familiar with the gas appliance installation business in the city, together with the mayor, who shall be an ex officio member and chairman thereof. No member of the board shall receive any compensation for his services. A majority vote shall be necessary to determine any decision to be rendered by the board. Meetings of the board shall be held at such times and places as specified by the chairman of the board.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-152. - Examination required; application; fee; issuance of certificate of competency.
It shall be the duty of the gas fitter's examining board to examine and pass upon the qualifications of every person who may apply for a gas fitter's certificate of competency to do work in the city or its gas service territory, upon forms provided by the city, and who shall have paid to the city clerk an examination fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00). Such applicant shall be examined upon the fundamentals of gas fitting, the laws of the city pertaining to gas installation, the theory and practice of gas installation and construction, and the experience and ability of the applicant in practical gas installation. If such applicant is found to possess an accurate knowledge of the fundamentals of gas fitting, a practical working knowledge of the theory and correct practice of gas installation and construction, a thorough knowledge of the laws of the city relating to gas installation and construction, and sufficient experience and ability in gas installation and construction to safely and competently apply his knowledge in practice, the board shall issue to him a certificate of competency.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-153. - Waiting period required after failing examination.
If any applicant fails to pass the examination required by this chapter, at least six (6) months must elapse before he will be permitted to take it again.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-154. - Certificate of competency—Duration; renewal.
Each certificate of competency, whether original or renewal, shall be valid only for the calendar year in which issued and dated, and shall be of no force or effect in any subsequent calendar year. Any holder of an unrevoked or unsuspended certificate for any particular calendar year, whether original or renewal, shall be entitled to a renewal certificate without examination for the next succeeding calendar year upon payment of a renewal fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the city clerk, provided such holder shall have been actively engaged in the business of gas fitting for not less than three (3) months within a period of one (1) year next preceding application for such renewal. Each duplicate certificate issued by the city clerk for one (1) lost, stolen or otherwise not in the person's possession shall cost ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-155. - Same—Not transferable.
No gas fitter's certificate of competency under the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable or assignable.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-156. - Scope of certificate of registration provisions.
The requirements of certificate of registration shall apply to all persons, resident or nonresident of the city, when doing work in the city. Provided, however, any person doing work outside the city in its gas service territory shall be issued a permit to do such work in lieu of a certificate of registration, upon the payment of a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) therefor, but in no event shall the requirements be lessened.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Sec. 6-157. - Permit issuance restricted.
No permit shall be issued for such purpose of gas inspection [installation] except by [to] a gas fitter holding a certificate of competency from the city, to do such work in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 89-6, 3-16-89)
Secs. 6-158—6-168. - Reserved.
