CHAPTER 3. - AVIATION AND AIRPORTS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 3-1—3-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MADISON-MORGAN COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY

Sec. 3-31. - Creation.
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Madison-Morgan County Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation. Said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of its officers, agents, and employees. The authority shall consist of seven members. Such members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Morgan County and by the governing authority of the City of Madison as follows: The governing authority of Morgan County shall appoint one member whose term expires December 31, 1998, one member whose term expires December 31, 2000. The governing authority of the City of Madison shall appoint one member whose term expires December 31, 1998, one member whose term expires December 31, 1999, and one member whose term expires December 31, 2000. In addition, the governing authority of Morgan County and the governing authority of the City of Madison shall jointly appoint one member whose term expires December 31, 2000. All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of four years and until their successors have been duly appointed. No person shall be appointed to membership on the authority unless he or she is a resident of Morgan County, Georgia, and has the same qualifications as are required for a person to vote in Morgan County, Georgia. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 1)
Sec. 3-32. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this [article], the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Madison-Morgan County Airport Authority created by [section 3-31] of this [article].
(2)
"Cost of the project" embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, and interest prior to and during construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, plans, and specifications and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this [article]; the construction of any project and improvements on the same; the placing of the same in operation; and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the authority.
(3)
"Project" means and includes the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving, and operation of airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities pertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities; acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal; and the lease and sale of any part of or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable.
(4)
"Revenue bonds," "bonds," or "obligations" means revenue bonds as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said article and any amendments thereto and, in addition, such terms shall also mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are authorized in this [article].
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if in the judgment of the authority the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 2)
Sec. 3-33. - Powers.
(a)
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by the exercise of the power and right of eminent domain, which is hereby granted, by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. The authority shall be under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this [article] except from the funds provided under the authority of this [article]. In any proceeding to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned. No property shall be acquired under the provisions of this [article] upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless, at the time such property is so acquired, a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and to fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects or leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired. Any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable. The authority is further granted the authority to make contracts, leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient with the United States government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the authority;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects, as defined in paragraph (3) of Section 2 [section 3-32(a)(3)] of this [article], the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and grants or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States, any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, or any other source upon such terms and conditions as the United States or such agency, instrumentality, or other source may impose;
(8)
To accept loans or grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the State of Georgia, any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, or any other source upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality, political subdivision, or other source may impose;
(9)
To regulate traffic at any airport which it owns or operates;
(10)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this [article].
(b)
The authority and the trustee acting under the trust indenture are specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or any interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in other sections of this [article].
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 3)
Sec. 3-34. - Meetings; quorum; compensation.
The authority will hold its first regular meeting after this [article] becomes effective. The first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in January. The authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less often than quarterly. At its first meeting and at its first meeting in January of each year thereafter, the authority shall elect one of its members as its chairperson and another member as secretary-treasurer. Only one person shall hold the office of secretary-treasurer. The chairperson and secretary-treasurer shall be elected for terms ending on December 31 of the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the authority shall serve without compensation, but they shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 4)
Sec. 3-35. - Vacancy.
In the event of a vacancy on the authority by reason of death, resignation, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled by the governing authority, and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 5)
Sec. 3-36. - Revenue bonds—Generally.
The authority or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this [article] shall have power and is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this [article] of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this [article] for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the authority from time to time, shall be payable as provided by resolution of the authority, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 30 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with Georgia laws, and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Georgia laws.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 6)
Sec. 3-37. - Same—Form; denomination; registration.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 7)
Sec. 3-38. - Same—Signatures and seals.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupons shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds or coupons, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairperson of the authority and attested by the secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairperson and secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of delivery and payment of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 8)
Sec. 3-39. - Same—Negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this [article] shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments laws of this state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and said bonds, their transfer, and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 9)
Sec. 3-40. - Same—Sale and price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 10)
Sec. 3-41. - Same—Proceeds; sinking fund.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same funds without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 11)
Sec. 3-42. - Same—Interim receipts; interim certificates; temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 12)
Sec. 3-43. - Same—Replacement of mutilated, destroyed, or lost.
The authority may provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 13)
Sec. 3-44. - Same—Conditions precedent for issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, or things which are specified or required by this [article]. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this [article] shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of the quorum as provided in this [article].
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 14)
Sec. 3-45. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this [article] shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the City of Madison or Morgan County, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this [article] and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate said county or municipality to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 15)
Sec. 3-46. - Secured by trust indenture.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 16)
Sec. 3-47. - Payment of proceeds from sale.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes thereof, subject to such regulations as this [article] and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 17)
Sec. 3-48. - Revenues derived from bonds.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, tolls, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, and any moneys derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on such revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of a paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this [article]. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture; provided, however, that except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 18)
Sec. 3-49. - Remedies for bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this [article] or any of the coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this [article] may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this [article] or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this [article] or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 19)
Sec. 3-50. - Revenue refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this [article] and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities, and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this [article] insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 20)
Sec. 3-51. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], known as the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States government or any department or agency thereof, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of this state or the United States government, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 21)
Sec. 3-52. - Jurisdiction to enforce bond rights.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this [article] or any suit against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Morgan County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this [article] shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 22)
Sec. 3-53. - Rights of bondholders unaffected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority shall be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under this [article], the provisions of this [article] shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 23)
Sec. 3-54. - Trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this [article], whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this [article].
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 24)
Sec. 3-55. - General purpose of authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this [article], the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving, and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and leasing or selling any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 25)
Sec. 3-56. - Fix and collect fees and charges.
The authority is authorized to prescribe and fix and collect rates, fees, tolls, and charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, and charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions, or subleases of its lands or facilities.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 26)
Sec. 3-57. - Duty to prescribe rules.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this [article], including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 27)
Sec. 3-58. - Supplemental and additional powers.
The foregoing sections of this [article] shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this [article] and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 28)
Sec. 3-59. - Liberal construction.
This [article], being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia, of Morgan County, and of the City of Madison, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this [article].
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 29)
Sec. 3-60. - Eminent domain.
Through the use and power of eminent domain, the authority shall have the right, power, privilege, and authority to condemn real property, rights-of-way, or easements for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this [article]. Such condemnation shall be conducted in accordance with the laws of this state.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 30)
Sec. 3-61. - Jurisdiction of property owned by authority.
All property the title to which shall vest in said authority shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the county wherein such property shall lie.
(1996 Ga. Laws (Act No. 899), p. 4409, § 31)
