ARTICLE IV. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-61. - Attendance and reporting requirements.
Each department head/elected official shall be responsible for the attendance of all persons in his or her department and each department head/elected official shall maintain a daily report or time sheet of the total number of hours worked by each employee of his or her department. At the end of each pay period, each employee and department head shall sign the time sheet declaring that the times and dates are a correct representation of the days and hours worked. Said report or time sheet shall be submitted to the personnel office no later than Monday noon following the last day of the pay period. This report shall be used in preparing the county payroll. Once the report or time sheet is received by the personnel office, the hours worked shall be deemed final. It is the responsibility of each department head or elected official to turn in true and correct time sheets.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(A))
Sec. 2-62. - Absences by department heads.
Departments heads shall notify the office of the chairman of the board of commissioners prior to any absence by the department head for leave time or other purposes such as schools or training. Said notice shall be in writing and shall identify the person in charge of the department while the department head is absent.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(B))
Sec. 2-63. - Absences by the Madison County Board of Commissioners Chairman.
The Chairman of the Madison County Board of Commissioners shall notify each member of the Madison County Board of Commissioners in writing five days in advance of any absences of greater than 24 hours and notify the Vice-Chairman of the Madison County Board of Commissioners of any actions that may be necessary during his absence. When five days' notice is not possible or practicable, as much notice as is possible and practicable shall be given.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(C))
Sec. 2-64. - Attendance at safety meetings.
Madison County receives a discount on its worker's compensation insurance premium for conducting a risk management program. Attendance by department heads at safety meetings held under the risk management program is required.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(D))
Sec. 2-65. - Vehicle repairs.
The sheriff shall have the authority to spend up to $500.00 for repairs to each vehicle without the approval of the board of commissioners. Note: This issue is also covered in the purchasing policy.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(E))
Sec. 2-66. - Beer and wine license renewals.
The county clerk is directed to mail out, during the last week of September of each year, renewal applications for the upcoming year to all current holders of beer and wine licenses.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(F))
Sec. 2-67. - Distribution of Madison County Policy.
The human resources director shall distribute to each department head a printed copy of the general policy and the personnel policy. The full text of each policy will also be available on the Madison County website ( www.madisoncountyga.us ), under the human resources departmental listing. Each employee shall sign an acknowledgment that he or she has reviewed and understands each policy.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(G); Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-68. - Leave time accrual dates.
Accumulation and adjustments to leave time are administered and approved by the human resources manager. Accruals shall inure on the first day of the month following the employee's employment anniversary date.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(H))
Sec. 2-69. - Health and life insurance benefits.
Employees are eligible for health, life, and dental insurance benefits, if and to the extent such benefits are provided, as of the first day of the month following the employee's sixtieth day of employment, or two months, whichever comes first.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(I))
Sec. 2-70. - Education and training.
Continuing education and training of county employees is encouraged and supported by the Madison County Board of Commissioners. Copies of certifications received upon completion of continuing education or training shall be submitted to the human resources manager; said certifications of continuing education or training shall be added to the employee's personnel record. Certain training or continuing education may carry an extended employment commitment. Violation may result in reimbursement for some or all of the expense.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 4(J); Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Secs. 2-71—2-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - GENERAL POLICY STATEMENTS

Sec. 2-81. - Business hours.
The Courthouse hours for each office shall be from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., with each office being open and manned by one employee during lunch hour of 12:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The transfer station and recycling center will be operated Wednesday through Saturday from 7:00 a.m. until 5:50 p.m.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(A))
Sec. 2-82. - Jury revisor's pay.
The jury revisor's pay is set at $50.00 per day.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(B))
Sec. 2-83. - Board of tax equalization pay.
The pay for the members of the board of tax equalization is set at $50.00 per day.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(C))
Sec. 2-84. - Designated bank depositories.
The board of commissioners may, in its discretion, designate one or more depositories for the funds and accounts of Madison County.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(D))
Sec. 2-85. - Planning and zoning commission pay.
The pay for a member of the planning and zoning commission is set at $150.00 per month. The pay for the chairman of the planning and zoning commission is set at $250.00 per month.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(E))
Sec. 2-86. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. adopted Feb. 6, 2017(1) repealed § 2-86 in its entirety. Former § 2-86 pertained to use of county vehicles and derived from Ord. adopted Jan. 9, 2012, § 5(F).
Sec. 2-87. - Zoning ordinance training sessions for the planning commission and the board of commissioners.
Newly-appointed members of the planning commission and/or newly elected members of the board of commissioners shall be required to attend training sessions to review the zoning ordinance and other applicable ordinances or regulations as determined by the county attorney. Training sessions shall be conducted and coordinated by the county attorney.
At the beginning of each calendar year, a training session to review the zoning ordinance and other applicable ordinances or regulations shall be attended by all members of the planning commission and the board of commissioners. Said training session shall be conducted and coordinated by the county attorney.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 5(G))
Secs. 2-88—2-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PUBLIC APPEALS PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-101. - Public appeals procedures.
(a)
Non-employees who wish to pursue grievances, complaints, or disagreements regarding any county employee shall complete and sign the citizen complaint form, in the form attached hereto as exhibit "A," and submit same to the County Clerk of Madison County.
(1)
Complaints must be filed with the county clerk within 30 days of the incident complained giving rise thereto. The county clerk's office shall have blank forms available for citizen use.
(2)
The county clerk shall forward the complaint form to the employee's department head, or if the employee is a department head, to the chairman of the board, who shall investigate the complaint and attempt to satisfy the complainant's concerns.
(3)
If the complainant remains dissatisfied after the process described in subsection (1) above is completed, he/she may appeal to the board of commissioners by requesting the county clerk to place him or her on the agenda of the next regular meeting for which the agenda deadline has not closed. The decision of the board shall be final.
(b)
Persons aggrieved by a decision of the building inspector (other than the issuance of a citation, which shall proceed in the manner prescribed for prosecution of citations) may appeal that decision by filing written notice of appeal with the director of building inspections within 30 days of such decision. Such appeal shall be heard by the board of appeals and adjustments. Persons aggrieved by a decision of the board of appeals and adjustments may appeal that decision by filing written notice of appeal with the county clerk within 30 days of such decision. Such appeal shall be heard by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 6(A), (B))
Secs. 2-102—2-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - STORM WEATHER PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-111. - Storm weather procedures.
Step 1. Road superintendent reports road conditions to chairman. If schools are open, then all county employees are expected to report for work.
Step 2. If schools are closed, the chairman decides the status of government operations; either closed all day or closed part of the day.
Step 3. Chairman notifies Fox 5 News and WSBTV.
Step 4. Employees are contacted by phone as follows:
(1)
The chairman notifies the county clerk, human resources manager, clerk of court, probate judge, magistrate judge, sheriff, EMS director, E-9-1-1 director, roads superintendent, and the tax commissioner.
(2)
The county clerk notifies the recreation department director, the registrar's office, IT director, finance director, security, the library, district attorney, and the senior center director.
(3)
The human resources manager notifies the chief tax appraiser, zoning administrator, building inspections director, solid waste director, maintenance supervisor, animal control, and the health department.
(4)
Each elected official or department head will be responsible for notifying his/her staff.
Employees will be compensated for closure hours on a case-by-case basis. Leave time, if available, may be taken for hours lost due to shutdown or partial closure if not compensated by the county. When the chairman determines that the courthouse and non-emergency departments are to remain open, employees in those departments should use their own judgment as to the road conditions and report to work as conditions warrant. However, each department and office should have designated employees who will open and staff their respective offices. When the courthouse and other departments are not officially closed, employees not reporting to work will be charged annual leave or compensatory time.
A maximum of 24 hours of "weather pay" for inclement weather will be allowed annually when the courthouse and other county offices are closed by official announcement of the chairman. The rate of compensation will be based on exempt or non-exempt status. Exempt employees do not receive overtime pay.
(1)
When an employee is not scheduled to work and does not work, the employee shall receive no pay.
(2)
When a non-exempt employee is not requested to report to work, the employee shall receive weather pay.
(3)
When a non-exempt employee is requested to report to work, the employee shall receive weather pay plus the hours that they worked.
(4)
When an exempt employee is requested to report to work, the employee shall receive his/her regular pay plus one hour compensatory time for each hour worked.
(5)
When an exempt employee is requested to report to work and does not work, the employee must use annual leave, holiday time or compensatory time to receive pay or time missed will be unpaid.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 7; Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Secs. 2-112—2-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - HARASSMENT POLICY

Sec. 2-121. - [Purpose.]
The Madison County Board of Commissioners is committed to maintaining a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. In keeping with this commitment, we will not tolerate harassing conduct that affects tangible job benefits, that interferes with an individual's work performance, or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment by anyone, including any supervisor, co-worker, vendor, client, or citizen.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8)
Sec. 2-122. - Harassment—Definition.
Harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age or disability constitutes discrimination in the terms, conditions and privileges of employment. Harassment is verbal, physical, or visual conduct that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an individual because of his/her race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age or disability, or that of his/her relatives, friends, or associates and that:
(1)
Has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
(2)
Has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance.
(3)
Otherwise adversely affects an individual's employment opportunities.
Harassing conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
Epithets, slurs, negative stereotyping, or threatening, intimidating, or hostile acts that relate to race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, or disability.
(2)
Written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an individual or group because of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, or disability and that is placed on walls, bulletin boards, or elsewhere on the employer's premises, or circulated in the workplace.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(A))
Sec. 2-123. - Same—Complaint procedures.
Employees encountering harassment should tell the offending person that their actions are inappropriate and offensive. The employee shall document all incidents of harassment in order to provide the fullest basis for investigation. In addition, the employee shall notify his or her supervisor of the harassment as soon as possible so that steps may be taken to protect the employee from further harassment, and appropriate investigative and disciplinary measures may be initiated.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(B))
Sec. 2-124. - Sexual harassment—Definition.
Sexual harassment deserves special mention. Inappropriate sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other physical, verbal, or visual conduct based on sex constitutes sexual harassment when:
(1)
Submission to such conduct is either explicitly or implicitly made a term or condition of an individual's employment.
(2)
Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as a basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
(3)
Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
Sexual harassment may include explicit sexual propositions, sexual innuendo, suggestive comments, sexual oriented "kidding" or "teasing", "practical jokes", jokes about gender-specific traits, foul or obscene language or gestures, displays or foul or obscene language or gestures, displays of foul or obscene printed or visual material, and physical contact, such as patting, pinching, or brushing against another's body.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(C))
Sec. 2-125. - Same—Complaint procedures.
All employees are responsible for helping to assure we avoid harassment, and have the responsibility for reporting any occurrence of harassment, or sexual harassment. If you feel that you have experienced or witnessed harassment you are to notify, either, your immediate supervisor, the human resources manager, the chairman of the board of commissioners, or the county clerk. Reports are to be made as soon as practicable, and within 24 hours unless extraordinary circumstances do not permit, and preferably in writing. Oral reports, however, will also be taken in the case of unusually sensitive circumstances. The Madison County Board of Commissioners' policy is to investigate all such complaints. To the fullest extent practicable, the Madison County Board of Commissioners will keep complaints and the terms of their resolution confidential. If an investigation confirms that harassment has occurred, the Madison County Board of Commissioners will take corrective action in accordance with the nature and extent of the offense. The Madison County Board of Commissioners also prohibits retaliation against any employee bringing a claim of sexual harassment.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(D))
Sec. 2-126. - Harassment and sexual harassment—False accusations procedure.
The Madison County Board of Commissioners recognizes that false accusations of harassment and sexual harassment can have a serious effect on innocent men and women. Individuals falsely accusing another of harassment or sexual harassment will be disciplined in accordance with the nature and extent of his or her false accusation.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(E))
Sec. 2-127. - Same—Employee inquiry procedure.
The Madison County Board of Commissioners encourages any employee to raise questions he or she may have regarding the harassment policy or sexual harassment, with his or her immediate supervisor, a higher-level manager, the human resources manager, the chairman of the board of commissioners, or the county clerk.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(F))
Sec. 2-128. - Workplace harassment issues quarterly meetings.
The Madison County Board of Commissioners will hold workplace harassment issues meetings for all department heads once each calendar quarter. Attendance by department heads is required.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(G))
Sec. 2-129. - Non-discrimination policy.
In accordance with the provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, Madison County does not exclude, deny benefits to, or otherwise discriminate against any person on the ground of race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, or religious creed in participation in or receipt of the services and benefits under any of its programs and activities, whether carried out by Madison County directly or through a contractor or any other entity with which Madison County arranges to carry out its programs and activities.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(H))
Sec. 2-130. - Non-discrimination coordinator.
The human resources manager is designated as the non-discrimination coordinator and charged with responsibility for assuring the county's compliance with the laws and regulations listed in the non-discrimination policy.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(I))
Sec. 2-131. - Publicity.
The name, title office address and phone number of the non-discrimination coordinator shall be made available to the public by listing same on the county's website and/or through such other means as the non-discrimination coordinator directs. The non-discrimination policy shall be included in the personnel policy and in recruitment materials.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 8(J))
Secs. 2-132—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - TECHNOLOGY USE POLICY

Sec. 2-141. - Overview.
Certain Madison County employees may be provided with access to the Internet to assist them in performing their jobs. The computer system belongs to Madison County, acting by and through its duly elected board of commissioners, and may only be used for county business purposes. The Internet can be a valuable source of information and research. In addition, e-mail can provide an excellent means of communicating with other employees, our customers and citizens, outside vendors, and other businesses. Use of the Internet, however, must be tempered with common sense and good judgment. If you abuse your right to use the Internet, this privilege may be revoked. In addition, you may be subject to disciplinary action, including possible termination, and civil and criminal liability.
Your use of the Internet is governed by this policy.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9)
Sec. 2-142. - Disclaimer of liability for use of the Internet.
Madison County is not responsible for material viewed or downloaded by users from the Internet. The Internet is a worldwide network of computers that contains millions of pages of information. Users are cautioned that many of these pages include offensive, sexually explicit, and inappropriate material. In general, it is difficult to avoid at least some contact with this material while using the Internet. Even innocent search requests may lead to sites with highly offensive content. In addition, you may receive e-mail containing offensive material. E-mail or pop-ups containing offensive material received on county computers shall be immediately reported to the department head or elected official who shall maintain a log of such occurrences. Users accessing the Internet do so at their own risk.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(A))
Sec. 2-143. - Employee's duty of care.
Employees should endeavor to make each electronic communication truthful and accurate. You should use the same care in drafting e-mail and other electronic documents as you would for any other written communication. Please keep in mind that anything created or stored on the computer system may and likely will, be reviewed by others. Any information stored on your computer constitutes a public record under the State Open Records Act.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(B))
Sec. 2-144. - Duty not to waste computer resources.
Employees must not deliberately perform acts that waste computer resources or unfairly monopolize resources to the exclusion of others. These acts include, but are not limited to, sending mass mailings or chain letters, spending excessive amounts of time on the Internet, playing games, engaging in online chat groups, printing multiple copies of documents, or otherwise creating unnecessary network traffic. Because audio, video and picture files require significant storage space, files of this sort may not be downloaded unless they are business related.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(C))
Sec. 2-145. - Internet access guidelines.
These guidelines set the standards for appropriate behavior of county employees when accessing the Internet using government resources. Remember that the county name goes with you as an electronic signature wherever you go on the Internet. County employees must exercise great care to protect the county reputation and ability to conduct business in all Internet activities. Activities of county Internet users are logged, including visits to inappropriate sites (erotica, hate groups, etc.), and reported to management as necessary.
The ability to "surf the web" (i.e., select links to unknown sites) carries with it new responsibilities for each user. Security problems with browser software, Netscape or Internet Explorer, are continually reported. These problems are potentially more serious for a large organization, such as Madison County, than for an individual user on his or her home machine. To protect county assets:
(1)
Never surf the web on a computer that has been identified as a computer that contains highly sensitive information, such as medical records or critical financial information.
(2)
Ensure your browser is kept up-to-date with the most current security patches.
(3)
Visit only known and trusted sites on the Internet. Monitor the URL (internet address) shown in the box at the top of your browser screen. These addresses typically take the form of http://www.site.com. If you are unsure about the safety of a site, contact your support group.
(4)
Be aware that selecting some links on web pages or in your e-mail will automatically download "applets" which are small programs that will automatically run on your computer. What the applet appears to be doing on your screen may not be all that is happening. Hostile applets can exploit security holes to gather information from the user's machine, such as user password files and critical network information.
(5)
Always close your browser when you have finished surfing the web.
"Netiquette" is the practice of good manners in a networked environment and is critical to successful county business practices. Each county Internet user is viewed as a representative of Madison County and must exercise good netiquette. You must use good judgment in assessing what form of communication is appropriate for particular information. If you have questions or concerns, consult your supervisor, or the relevant department for the particular issue.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(D))
Sec. 2-146. - Activities which may result in disciplinary action.
(a)
Using the computer system, including, but not limited to, accessing the Internet, for other than county business purposes.
(b)
Visiting inappropriate web sites (erotica, hate groups, etc.).
(c)
Unauthorized attempts to break into any computer whether it belongs to Madison County or another organization (cracking).
(d)
Sending or posting threatening messages.
(e)
Sending or posting racially and/or sexually harassing messages.
(f)
Sending or posting sexually suggestive or explicit messages.
(g)
Theft or copy of electronic files without permission.
(h)
Sending or posting confidential information that is not part of your job requirement.
(i)
Refusing to cooperate with a reasonable security investigation.
Failure to comply with these guidelines may be brought to the attention of management for appropriate action, which may result in loss of Internet privileges or disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Violations of applicable laws or regulations (e.g., Computer Security Act, export control laws, copyright laws) could result in criminal or civil prosecution.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(E))
Sec. 2-147. - No expectation of privacy.
The computers and the computer accounts given to county employees are to assist them in performance of their jobs. Employees do not have an expectation of privacy in anything they create, store, send or receive on the computer system. The computer system belongs to the county and may only be used for business purposes.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(F))
Sec. 2-148. - No privacy in communications.
Employees should never consider electronic communications to be either private or secure. E-mail may be stored indefinitely on any number of computers, including that of the recipient. Copies of your messages may be forwarded to others either electronically or on paper. In addition, e-mail sent to nonexistent or incorrect usernames may be delivered to persons that you never intended.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(G))
Sec. 2-149. - Monitoring of computer usage.
The county has the right, but not the duty, to monitor any and all aspects of its computer system, including, but not limited to, monitoring sites visited by employees on the Internet, monitoring chat groups and newsgroups, reviewing material downloaded or uploaded by users to the Internet, reviewing e-mail sent and received by users, and reviewing documents saved to the computer.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(H))
Sec. 2-150. - Blocking of inappropriate content.
The county may use software/hardware to identify inappropriate or sexually explicit Internet sites. Such sites may be blocked from access by county networks. Nonetheless, in the event you encounter inappropriate or sexually explicit material while browsing on the Internet, immediately disconnect from the site, regardless of whether the site was subject to county blocking software and immediately report the incident to your department head or elected official who shall maintain a log of such occurrences.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(I))
Sec. 2-151. - Prohibited activities.
Material that is fraudulent, harassing, embarrassing, sexually explicit, profane, obscene, intimidating, defamatory, or otherwise unlawful or inappropriate may not be sent by e-mail or other forms of electronic communication (bulletin board systems, newsgroups, e-groups, chat groups), downloaded from the Internet, or displayed on or stored on Madison County computers. Employees encountering or receiving this kind of material should immediately report the incident to their supervisors.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(J))
Sec. 2-152. - Unauthorized hardware or software.
Elected officials, department heads or employees may not install any hardware or software on any county computer without written permission from the chairman of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(K))
Sec. 2-153. - Games and entertainment software.
Employees may not use the county's Internet connection to download games or other entertainment software, including screen savers, or to play games over the Internet.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(L))
Sec. 2-154. - Illegal copying.
Employees may not illegally copy material protected under copyright law or make that material available to others for copying. You are responsible for complying with copyright law and applicable licenses that may apply to software, files, graphics, documents, messages, and other material you wish to download or copy. You may not agree to a license or download any material for which a registration fee is charged without first obtaining the express written permission of your department head.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(M))
Sec. 2-155. - Accessing the Internet.
To ensure security and avoid the spread of viruses, employees accessing the Internet through a computer attached to the Madison County network must do so through an approved Internet firewall. Accessing the Internet directly, by modem, is strictly prohibited unless the computer you are using is not connected to the county's network.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(N))
Sec. 2-156. - Virus detection.
Files obtained from sources outside the county, including disks brought from home; files downloaded from the Internet, newsgroups; bulletin boards, or other online services; files attached to e-mail; and files provided by customers or vendors, may contain dangerous computer viruses that may damage the county's computer network. Employees should never download files form the Internet, accept e-mail attachments from outsiders, or use disks from non-county sources, without first scanning the material with county-approved virus checking software. If you suspect that a virus has been introduced into the county's network, notify the information technology department immediately. Madison County maintains virus protection software for all county computers. Employees may not disable or alter the operation of virus protection software on any county computer.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(O))
Sec. 2-157. - Sending unsolicited e-mail (spamming).
Without the express permission of their supervisors, employees may not send unsolicited e-mail to persons with whom they do not have a prior relationship.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(P))
Sec. 2-158. - Alternating attribution information.
Employees must not alter the "From:" line or other attribution of origin information in e-mail, messages, or postings. Anonymous or pseudonymous electronic communications are forbidden. Employees must identify themselves honestly and accurately when participating in chat groups, making postings to newsgroups, sending e-mail, or otherwise communicating on-line.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(Q))
Sec. 2-159. - Standard footers for e-mail.
This footer should be appended to all e-mail sent outside the county:
Employee Name, Employee Title, Madison County, Georgia,
www.madisoncountyga.us,
And the Department phone number as shown in the example below:
EXPAND
Mr. _______,
___________.
John/Jane Doe
_______ Officer
Madison County, Georgia
www.madisoncountyga.us
706-795-_____
"If you are not the intended recipient or the person responsible for delivering the e-mail to the intended recipient, be advised that you have received this e-mail in error and that any use, dissemination, forwarding, printing, or copying of this e-mail is strictly prohibited. Please contact (Department Number) if you receive this e-mail in error."
  (Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(R))
Sec. 2-160. - Attorney-client communications.
E-mail sent from or to the county attorney or any other attorney representing the county should include this warning header on each page: "ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGED; DO NOT FORWARD WITHOUT PERMISSION". Communications from attorneys may not be forwarded without the sender's express permission.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(S))
Sec. 2-161. - Use of encryption software.
Employees may not install or use encryption software on any of Madison County's computers without first obtaining written permission from the chairman of the board of commissioners. You must not use passwords or encryption keys that are unknown to your department head or elected official and the information technology officer.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(T))
Sec. 2-162. - Export restrictions.
The federal government has imposed restrictions on export of programs or files containing encryption technology (such as e-mail programs that permit encryption of messages and electronic commerce software that encodes transactions). Software containing encryption technology is not to be placed on the Internet or transmitted in any way outside the United States.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(U))
Sec. 2-163. - Other policies applicable.
In their use of the Internet, users must observe and comply with all other county policies and guidelines.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(V))
Sec. 2-164. - Data backups.
Employees are responsible for making daily data backups.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(W))
Sec. 2-165. - Cleaning of county computers.
Employees who use county computers are responsible for keeping a clean and safe computer station. Computers should be kept cleaned and well maintained.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(X))
Sec. 2-166. - Amendments and revisions.
This policy may be amended or revised from time to time as the need arises. Users will be provided with copies of all amendments and revisions. Violations of this policy will be taken seriously and may result in disciplinary action under the county personnel policy, civil and criminal liability.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 9(Y))
Secs. 2-167—2-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - VEHICLE FLEET POLICY

Sec. 2-181. - Overview.
County employees who are on call 24 hours a day may take a county vehicle home. Said vehicles are for county use only and may not be used for personal business. As a driver of a county vehicle, the authorized driver has been given certain privileges. He/she assumes the duty of obeying all motor vehicle laws, maintaining the vehicle properly at all times and, otherwise, following the policies and procedures outlined in the following:
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10; Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-182. - Vehicle fleet purpose.
County vehicles are provided to support county activities and are to be used only by qualified and authorized employees. They are not to be considered a part of an employee's compensation and must not be used as an inducement for employment. In all cases, these vehicles are to be operated in strict compliance with motor vehicle laws of the jurisdiction in which they are driven and with the utmost regard for their care and cost efficient use.
(1)
County vehicles may not be used for activities of other counties.
(2)
County vehicles may not be driven to Mexico.
(3)
County vehicles may not be used for personal business. An incidental stop for personal business at a place along or within close proximity to an employee's route while on county business (for example, stopping for lunch if in transit on county business at lunchtime, or, for employees allowed to take county vehicles home with them overnight, stopping at a store on the way to work) will not be considered a violation of this policy; any other uses of county vehicles for personal business is and shall be considered a violation. As further exception, employees within departments of public safety, including, but not limited to, EMS, who remain on call during lunch and other break times during their shifts, shall be permitted to use their county vehicle for trips taken during such breaks. Any other uses of county vehicles for personal business is and shall be considered a violation.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(A))
Sec. 2-183. - Driver licensing.
Drivers and anyone authorized to drive the county's vehicles must have a valid Georgia driver's license for the class of the vehicle being operated and must be able to drive a vehicle. Obtaining a driver's license is a personal expense.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(B))
Sec. 2-184. - Driver qualifications.
Driver qualifications are as follows:
(1)
Authorized employee of county.
(2)
Must be at least 19 years of age, with an acceptable three year motor vehicle record.
(3)
Have at least one year of experience in the class of vehicle operated.
(4)
Must meet licensing requirements.
(5)
Will not qualify to operate a county vehicle if, during the last 36 months, the driver had any of the following experiences:
a.
Been convicted of a felony.
b.
Been convicted of sale, handling or use of drugs.
c.
Has automobile insurance canceled, declined or not renewed by an insurance carrier.
d.
Been convicted of an alcohol- or drug-related offense while driving.
e.
Had driver's license suspended or revoked.
f.
Been convicted of three or more speeding violations or one or more other serious violations.
g.
Been involved in two or more chargeable accidents.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(C); Ord. of 9-13-2021 )
Sec. 2-185. - Review of motor vehicle record.
State motor vehicle records (MVRs) will be used as the source for verifying driver history. MVRs will be obtained and reviewed at least annually. Driving privileges may be withdrawn or suspended and/or the county vehicles removed for any authorized driver not meeting the above requirements. In addition, appropriate disciplinary action may be taken.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(D))
Sec. 2-186. - Maintenance.
Authorized drivers are required to properly maintain their county vehicles at all times. Vehicles should not be operated with any defect that would inhibit safe operation during current and foreseeable weather and lighting conditions. Preventive maintenance such as regular oil changes, lubrication and tire pressure and fluid checks determine to a large extent whether you will have a reliable, safe vehicle to drive and support work activities. You should have preventive maintenance completed on your vehicle as required in the owner's manual. This service should be done at the Madison County Road Department.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(E))
Sec. 2-187. - Personal cars used on county business.
Employees should use a county vehicle when available and shall not use his/her personal vehicle for county business without authorization from his/her department head. The county does not assume any liability for bodily injuries or property damage the employee may become personally obligated to pay arising out of an accident occurring in connection with operation of his/her own car. You must have liability insurance as required by Georgia law. The county does not specify and assumes no responsibility for any other coverage employees carry on their own cars since this is a matter of individual status and preference.
Requests for reimbursement of personal vehicle mileage must be made within 30 days of the date the expense was incurred. Madison County will reimburse employees for all mileage incurred on county business in their personal vehicle at the current mileage reimbursement rate as may be determined by quarterly review and set by the chairman. A mileage expense report should be completed when requesting mileage for a personal vehicle.
Gas for county-owned vehicles can be obtained through the county road department. Out-of-town gas purchases for county vehicles may be obtained using a county credit card.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(F); Ord. of 2-22-2021(1) )
Sec. 2-188. - Traffic violations.
Fines for parking or moving violations are the personal responsibility of the assigned operator. The county will not condone nor excuse ignorance of traffic citations that result in court summons being directed to itself as owner of the vehicle.
Each driver is required to report all moving violations to their department head by the end of the work day. This requirement applies to violations involving the use of any vehicle (county, personal or other) while on county business. Failure to report violations will result in appropriate disciplinary action.
Please be aware that traffic violations incurred during non-business (personal use) hours will affect your driving status as well and are subject to review.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(G))
Sec. 2-189. - Accidents involving county vehicles.
In the event of an accident:
(1)
Do not admit negligence or liability.
(2)
Do not attempt settlement, regardless of how minor.
(3)
If possible, get the name, address and phone number of the other parties involved and witnesses.
(4)
Exchange vehicle identification, insurance, county name and policy numbers with the other driver.
(5)
Take a photograph of the scene of accident if possible.
(6)
Call the police if injury to others is involved. You may want to call police even if there are no injuries.
(7)
Complete the accident report in your vehicle.
(8)
Turn all information over to your department head.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(H))
Sec. 2-190. - Thefts.
In the event of the theft of a county vehicle, notify local police immediately.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(I))
Sec. 2-191. - Driver responsibilities.
Each driver is responsible for the actual possession, care and use of the county vehicle in their possession. Therefore, a driver's responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
Operation of the vehicle in a manner consistent with reasonable practices that avoid abuse, theft, neglect or disrespect of the equipment.
(2)
Obey all traffic laws.
(3)
The use of seat belts and shoulder harness is mandatory for driver and passengers.
(4)
Reserved.
(5)
Attention to and practice of safe driving techniques and adherence to current safety requirements.
(6)
Prohibiting and guarding against the use of the vehicle by persons other than the specific employee(s) assigned to the vehicle.
Failure to comply with any of these responsibilities will result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(J); Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-192. - Preventable accidents.
A preventable accident is defined as any accident involving a county vehicle — whether being used for county or personal use — or any vehicle while being used on county business that results in property damage and/or personal injury, and in which the driver in question failed to exercise every reasonable precaution to prevent the accident.
Classification of preventable accidents:
(1)
Following too close;
(2)
Driving too fast for conditions;
(3)
Failure to observe clearances;
(4)
Failure to obey signs;
(5)
Improper turns;
(6)
Failure to observe signals from other drivers;
(7)
Failure to reduce speed;
(8)
Improper parking;
(9)
Improper passing;
(10)
Failure to yield;
(11)
Improper backing;
(12)
Failure to obey traffic signals or directions;
(13)
Exceeding the posted speed limit;
(14)
[Driving] while intoxicated (DWI) or driving under the influence (DUI) or similar charges.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(K))
Sec. 2-193. - Drugs and alcohol.
No employee shall operate a county vehicle, or a personal vehicle on county business: (1) with any amount of alcohol in his or her system, (2) with any illegal controlled substance in his or her system, or (3) with any legal controlled substance or uncontrolled substance in his or her system which would impair motor function or judgment. No alcoholic beverage nor illegal controlled substance shall be transported, stored, or otherwise found present in any county vehicle. Violation of this rule will be met with the strictest consequences.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(L))
Sec. 2-194. - Personal property in county vehicles.
County vehicles are subject to search and inspection at any time by any person so authorized by the county, and county employees shall have no expectation of privacy in any personal items placed or transported in a county vehicle.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 10(K))
Secs. 2-195—2-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - TRAVEL POLICY

Sec. 2-201. - [Overview.]
A policy to establish rules and regulations pertaining to travel and related expenses for the elected officials, department heads, and employees of Madison County Government.
This policy is intended to provide guidance to department heads, elected officials, or employees whenever expenses are incurred while attending meetings, training sessions, conferences or other government-related functions. This document is also designed as a reminder that as stewards of public monies, we have an obligation to ourselves and to the people we serve to demonstrate the highest ethical and fiscal standards.
Specifically not covered by these policies are the expenses of witnesses appearing in the courts of Madison County.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11)
Sec. 2-202. - Authorized travel and expenses.
Travel and related expenses shall be authorized when a department head, elected official, or employee (approved by the department head or elected official) is engaged in the conduct of official government business and shall include the following:
(1)
Travel to and from the location of a conference, seminar, school, or training program, which is for education or training purposes directly related to the operations of the government and its official functions, provided that the program and expenses associated therewith are approved in advance in writing by the county finance director. The department head shall submit a request for written approval to the county finance director on behalf of himself/herself or any employee in his/her department at least 14 days in advance of the time that disbursement of funds for registration, reservations, or any other expense is necessary, and no disbursement shall occur prior to the granting of written approval.
(2)
Travel to and from any location to conduct operations of the government.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(A))
Sec. 2-203. - Registration.
Registration fees may be paid through accounts payable using an authorization for payment form or by charging to the county charge card, subject to the requirements of subsection 2-202(1) above. According to the purchasing policy, a purchase order is not required for the registration; however, a purchase order is preferred when using the county charge card. The registration fee of an employee's spouse will not be an allowable expense. Any part of a registration fee covering meals and/or lodging shall not otherwise be reimbursed in addition to the registration fee.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(B))
Sec. 2-204. - Transportation.
Employees should use a county vehicle when available and shall not use his/her personal vehicle for county business without authorization from his/her department head. The county does not assume any liability for bodily injuries or property damage the employee may become personally obligated to pay arising out of an accident occurring in connection with operation of his/her own car. You must have liability insurance as required by Georgia law. The county does not specify and assumes no responsibility for any other coverage employees carry on their own cars since this is a matter of individual status and preference.
Requests for reimbursement of personal vehicle mileage must be made within 30 days of the date the expense was incurred. Madison County will reimburse employees for all mileage incurred on county business in their personal vehicle at the current mileage reimbursement rate as may be determined by quarterly review and set by the chairman. A mileage expense report should be completed when requesting mileage for a personal vehicle.
Gas for county-owned vehicles can be obtained through the county road department. Out-of-town gas purchases for county vehicles may be obtained using a county credit card.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(C); Ord. of 2-22-2021(2) )
Sec. 2-205. - Lodging.
(a)
Lodging may be charged to the county's charge card, paid in advance (using an authorization for payment), or billed direct to the county. Should lodging need to be charged to a county credit card or paid in advance, it is expected that the employee will arrange to have these expenses handled directly by the county purchasing agent.
(b)
Meals served at a hotel or motel may be billed to the employee's room and expensed to the county provided they meet the set meal rates provided. Phone calls charged to the room that are directly related to county business may also be expensed to the county. One personal "safe arrival call" is allowed. No other personal phone calls shall be allowed as reimbursable by Madison County.
(c)
The following lodging-related items would not be allowed as reimbursable by Madison County:
(1)
Entertainment expenses.
(2)
Charges such as beach or pool rental items, movie rentals, or other "extra" services.
(d)
Should an employee choose lodging arrangements other than those provided as part of the training or conference, the county will not be responsible for lodging-related reimbursements unless approved in advance. In such cases, a partial reimbursement may be considered if presented in advance (Example: if an employee chooses to stay at a $100.00-per-night hotel as opposed to staying at an $80.00-per-night location that is offered as part of the conference package, the employee can request reimbursement for up to $80.00 per night. Such requests should have approval of the department head/elected official.) Should lack of availability with a conference package hotel cause the employee to have to choose other lodging, the county will pay these alternate arrangements. Authorized lodging fee is standard room rate. The appropriate "sales and use tax certificate of exemption" and "hotel/motel tax exemption request" will support all lodging arrangements. These forms may be found in the appendix section of this policy.
(e)
Parking fees shall be allowed as a reimbursable expense.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(D))
Editor's note— The above-referenced forms are adopted by reference and kept on file in the county offices.
Sec. 2-206. - Meals.
(a)
Rates.
(1)
Expenses for a day trip that does not involve an overnight stay. Cash meals will be reimbursed at the set meal rates only when supported by an itemized meal receipt. Meals that are paid with a credit card must have both the itemized and signed receipts for reimbursement. Tips are limited to a maximum of 15 percent of the meal expense. The base rate does not include tax or tips.
EXPAND
Meal Amount
Breakfast $13.00
Lunch $14.00
Dinner $23.00
  (2)
Expenses for travel meals that do require an overnight stay. Cash meals will be reimbursed at the set meal rates only when supported by an itemized meal receipt. Meals that are paid with a credit card must have both the itemized and signed receipts for reimbursement. Tips are limited to a maximum of 15 percent of the meal expense. The base rate does not include tax or tips.
EXPAND
Meal Amount
Per Diem $50.00
  (b)
Employees are expected to partake of pre-paid or complimentary dinners that are provided as part of the conference, training or meeting.
(c)
The county will not reimburse any expenses for alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(E); Res. of 2-28-2022(2), § 1)
Sec. 2-207. - Reimbursements of expenses.
Payment by the government shall be limited to the actual, allowable, expense incurred for authorized activities provided for in this policy. The allowable expense may be determined by the geographic location and other circumstances and the interpretation of allowable expenses shall be made by the department head/elected official and the county finance director (supported by availability of funds in the department budget).
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(F))
Sec. 2-208. - Use of county credit card.
(a)
When traveling on authorized county-related business, an employee may reserve a county credit card from the accounts payable/accounting office. When an employee checks out a county credit card, he/she assumes responsibility for all charges made on the card during the time it is in their possession. Only eligible expenses may be charged. Unauthorized charges should not be charged to the county credit card even if it is the intention to reimburse these expenses. Unauthorized charges or charges failing to meet the criteria set forth in these or other county policies will be the responsibility of the employee. The county reserves the right to deduct any unauthorized charges from the employee's wages.
(b)
Under no circumstances should an employee who has signed for a card allow another employee to use the card.
(c)
All receipts and other documentation to adequately justify expenses must be returned with the charge card. The card must be signed-in in the accounts payable/accounting office immediately upon return of the travel function.
(d)
An employee using a county credit card should have a county identification card provided by the human resources manager to attest that he/she is an employee of Madison County.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(G))
Sec. 2-209. - Travel/training pay.
Time spent traveling to and from training sites is considered compensatory time. An employee shall be compensated for time spent in class or training and are computed the same as a regular workday. (Title 29, Part 785, Sections 27-41, U.S. Department of Labor, Fair Labor Standards Act)
(1)
Local travel. An employee shall be compensated for travel time spent to and from the training destination, whether from home to destination or from work to destination.
(2)
Long distance travel (by auto). An employee shall be compensated for travel time spent to and from your destination, whether from home to destination or from work to destination. (If more than one day is required in travel time, an employee's travel time compensation ends at the place of lodging and begins when he/she commences the travel to home or work.)
(3)
Long distance travel (by plane/train/bus). An employee shall be compensated for travel time spent to and from the airport or depot, whether from home to destination or from work to destination. (If more than one day is required for travel time, an employee shall be compensated when he/she starts travel from the place of lodging to home or work.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(H))
Sec. 2-210. - Determination of allowable expense.
Economic conservatism and sound judgment must be exercised by all officials and employees in every expense incurred. In the event of a dispute of an allowable expense, the county finance director shall be authorized to make such determination based on this policy, reasonableness, and sound judgment.
Requests for reimbursements of personal vehicle mileage must be received within 30 days of the date the expense was incurred.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 11(I))
Secs. 2-211—2-220. - Reserved.
