ARTICLE III. - PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-41. - Holidays.
Named annual holidays:
New Year's Day. If January 1 falls on a Saturday, New Year's Day shall be observed on the Friday before. If January 1 falls on a Sunday, New Year's Day shall be observed on the following Monday.
Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
Good Friday;
Memorial Day;
Independence Day;
Labor Day;
Veterans Day;
Thanksgiving Day and the following day;
Christmas Day and the day before or after. If one of these two days falls on a Saturday or Sunday the holiday shall be observed on the Friday before or the following Monday.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 3(A); Ord. of 1-7-2013(2) ; Ord. of 1-6-2014(3) ; Ord. of 1-5-2015(3) ; Ord. of 1-4-2016(1) ; Ord. of 1-9-2017(1) ; Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) ; Ord. of 12-4-2017(1) )
Sec. 2-42. - Personnel appropriations.
Funds appropriated for personnel positions that are not used due to employee attrition, absenteeism or other causes shall be suspended and shall not be used for other purposes without approval of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 3(B))
Sec. 2-43. - Return to work policy.
Madison County participates in the loss control and safety incentive program of the ACCG Group Self-Insurance Workers' Compensation Fund, through which workers' compensation coverage is provided to county employees. In accordance with the requirements of that program, department heads and elected officials are directed/encouraged to make efforts to return injured workers to employment as soon as reasonable and practicable. In situations where the employee's treating physician has determined that temporary physical limitations do not permit the employee's return to his previous job, such efforts should include providing "transitional employment" (i.e., temporary duties that are less strenuous than the employee's normal job duties) where reasonable and practicable.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 3(C))
Sec. 2-44. - Telephone usage.
Employees provided with telephones for their primary benefit are responsible for the usage of those, and must receive authorization from their supervisor for any use which results in additional telephone charges, including, but not limited to, directory assistance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, employees may be authorized by their department head to incur reasonable long distance charges in the performance of their official duties without receiving authorization for each individual call. Any charges incurred in violation of this policy may be tracked to the telephone used and charged to the employee for whose primary benefit that telephone is provided.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 3(D))
Sec. 2-45. - Wellness policy.
With the rising onset of health problems and the top three being high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity, the chairman and board of commissioners have a growing concern for their employees' health and well-being. Therefore, Madison County is dedicated to helping employees reach optimal health and improve their quality of life.
Madison County recognizes the benefits, to both employees and employers, of programs that promote and support workplace health/wellness. The Madison County Health and Wellness Program is designed to provide employees with the tools they need to make positive lifestyle changes. The program's goals are to:
(1)
Provide educational resources that promote healthy lifestyles;
(2)
Develop activities to support the well-being of employees;
(3)
Address the primary components that lead to unhealthy lifestyles;
(4)
Create a culture of health awareness.
Madison County intends to promote these goals by supporting exercise programs and contests, holding educational seminars, sending monthly flyers and weekly e-mails with health tips, and providing rewards to those that reach their desired goals.
As part of the commitment to wellness, a health promotion leader has been appointed and a wellness committee formed who will monitor and encourage participation, keep a record of points earned by each employee for their participation, evaluate the success of each program and ensure that rewards are given at the end of each grant year.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 3(E))
Secs. 2-46—2-60. - Reserved.
