Chapter 66 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; water conservation in construction, § 14-161 et seq.; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 26; floods, ch. 30; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 38; solid waste, ch. 54; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waste management O.C.G.A. § 12-8-1 et seq.; regulations of county board of health governing sewage management systems, O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.1; codes relating to construction, livability, sanitation, equipment, occupancy, etc., of buildings, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; contracts to provide industrial wastewater treatment services, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 66-1—66-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - INSTALLATIONS IN ROAD OR STREET RIGHTS-OF-WAY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58.

Sec. 66-21. - Where permit required; exception.
(a)
This article governs the installation of telephone lines, gas lines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, electrical lines, fuel lines, steam lines, T.V. cables, open storm drainage, storm sewers and other utilities within county maintained road or street rights-of-way. New facilities or extensions of existing facilities within the rights-of-way shall require a written application and a permit issued by the board of commissioners. Service lines and maintenance and repair of existing facilities shall not require a permit unless a pavement cut is required, but all other requirements of this article shall apply to the activities, where applicable.
(b)
Emergency cuts without a permit may be made when required. Such cuts shall be followed by a written application or report to the board of commissioners within two working days thereafter. Repairs to the pavement and disturbed soil and all other applicable requirements of this article shall apply to such emergency cuts.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 1)
Sec. 66-22. - Authorization of county road superintendent.
The installation of the facility as authorized shall be subject to the inspection, direction and control of the county road superintendent or designated representative of the board of commissioners who shall be notified before work is commenced.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 2)
Sec. 66-23. - Drainage ditches.
The work shall be performed in a workmanlike manner and all installations shall be done by the utility owner in such a way as to leave free flows in drainage ditches, pipes, culverts or other surface water drainage facilities of the roadway or its connections. No part of any installation shall be attached to any portion of a bridge, culvert or other structure of the roadway without special authorization of the county road superintendent or designated representative of the board of commissioners after detailed information is furnished as the representative may require.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 3)
Sec. 66-24. - Breaking of pavement.
A request for breaking of pavement must be described in detail in the application. Where breaking of pavement has been approved a six-inch concrete slab will be poured over the backfilled trench and will rest on undisturbed soil. If the pavement is asphalt, the surface (at the six-inch concrete slab will be 1½ inches below the surface of the abutting pavement. The 1½-inch section will be paved with Type E, F, or H plant asphalt. The finished surface will be smooth and flush with abutting pavement.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 4)
Sec. 66-25. - Underground piping and wiring.
Underground piping and wiring will be installed to have at least a 30-inch cover. Telephone and cable T.V. lines shall have at least an 18-inch cover. Where underground piping parallels the roadway the excavated ditch edge nearest the pavement will be at least eight feet from the pavement edge, unless otherwise authorized in this article.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 5)
Sec. 66-26. - Trenches.
The facility trench shall be backfilled carefully after the facility has been installed, in accordance with the standard practice for installing culverts and minor structures. In crossing roadways the backfill will be made in six-inch layers and each layer firmly compacted. Where roadway grass is disturbed, satisfactory replacement will be accomplished including adequate seeding of new grass.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 6)
Sec. 66-27. - Costs.
The full and entire expense and cost of the facility installation and maintenance shall be borne by the utility owner and the utility owner shall make necessary arrangements for traffic over the point during such work as may be directed by the county road superintendent or designated representative of the board of commissioners. The utility owner shall place the necessary barricades, warning signs, signals, lights and, if necessary, watchmen for the protection of the traveling public, and further agrees by the acceptance of the permit to keep and hold the county harmless from any and all damages caused by negligence on the part of the utility owner, its agents, servants, officers or employees, or contractors, engaged in doing the work, or any injuries or damages suffered by anyone as a result thereof.
Sec. 66-28. - Widening or relocation of existing roads.
In case the board of commissioners should in the future decide to widen and/or relocate the existing road, the board of commissioners reserve the right to require the utility owner to take up and relay such sections of the facility within the right-of-way as may be necessary to take up and relay from an engineering standpoint due to such widening and/or relocating; the taking up and relaying to be at the expense of the utility owner. This work shall be completed within 60 working days after notification by the board of commissioners or within such other time as may be approved in writing by the county road superintendent or designated representative of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 8)
Sec. 66-29. - Notification of commencement of construction.
The owner shall notify the office of the board of commissioners, by telephone, of the date and time of the commencement of the construction and/or installation and location of the commencement of construction.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 9)
Sec. 66-30. - Water and sanitary sewer lines.
In the case of water lines and sanitary sewer lines, the applicant must submit three copies of a plan showing the proposed installation to the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall have 30 days to approve or deny issuance of such permit in accordance with this section.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 10)
Sec. 66-31. - Application for permit.
Application for permit for utility facility installation shall be made to the board of commissioners' office in the government complex building.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 11)
Sec. 66-32. - Department of transportation application and permit.
In those cases where a state department of transportation application and permit is required, a copy of the department of transportation application and permit along with the expected date of work commencement shall be provided to the board of commissioners and the copy shall satisfy the application and permit requirements in this article.
(Ord. of 8-16-1985, § 12)
Secs. 66-33—66-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Sec. 66-61. - Enactment.
In pursuance of authority under the Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I, entitled "Home Rule For Counties," and O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, and for the purposes of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county, the board of commissioners does hereby ordain and enact into law this article.
(Ord. of 8-4-1987, art. I)
Sec. 66-62. - Regulations.
The regulations promulgated by the environmental health section of the state department of human resources in the "Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems" are hereby adopted as the on-site sewage management regulations for the county.
(Ord. of 8-4-1987, art. III)
Sec. 66-63. - Procedure for enforcement of article.
The procedure for enforcement of this article shall be the procedure as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60—15-10-66. The maximum punishment to be imposed for a violation of this article shall be $500.00, or imprisonment for 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 8-4-1987, art. IV)
Sec. 66-64. - Inspection warrants.
(a)
As used in this article, the term "inspection warrant" means a warrant authorizing a search or inspection of private property where such a search or inspection is one that is necessary for the enforcement of this article.
(b)
The county sanitarian or the sheriff or one of his lawful deputies may obtain an inspection warrant under the conditions specified in this article. Such warrant shall authorize the sanitarian or the sheriff or one of his lawful deputies to conduct search or inspection of property, either with or without the consent of the person whose property is to be searched or inspected.
(c)
Inspection warrants shall be issued only by the magistrate court of the county.
(d)
The magistrate court of the county shall issue the warrant when the judge is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
(1)
The official seeking the warrant must establish under oath or affirmation that the property to be inspected is to be inspected as a part of a legally authorized program of inspection which includes that property or that there is probable cause for believing that there is a condition, object, activity, or circumstance which legally justifies such an inspection of that property;
(2)
The issuing judge determines that the issuance of the warrant is authorized under this article.
(e)
The inspection warrant shall be validly issued only if it meets the following requirements:
(1)
The warrant is attached to the affidavit required to be made in order to obtain the warrant;
(2)
The warrant describes, either directly or by reference to the affidavit, the property upon which the inspection is to occur and is sufficiently accurate that the executor of the warrant and the owner or possessor of the property can reasonably determine from it the property of which the warrant authorizes an inspection;
(3)
The warrant indicates the conditions, objects, activities, or circumstances which the inspection is intended to check or reveal; and
(4)
The warrant refers, in general terms, to the statutory or regulatory provisions sought to be enforced.
(Ord. of 8-4-1987, art. V; Ord. of 12-12-1989)
ARTICLE IV. - BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of 7-27-2021 , adopted on July 27, 2021, added provisions to the Code which were not specifically amendatory. At the direction of the City, those provisions have been included as set out herein.

Sec. 66-91. - Broadband ready community.
(a)
[Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Applicant means a person applying for a permit for a broadband network project.
Broadband network project means any deployment of broadband services.
Permit means any local permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar form of approval required by policy, administrative rule, regulation, ordinance, or resolution with respect to a broadband network project.
Political subdivision means a county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or local authority.
(b)
Single point of contact. Madison County, Georgia shall appoint a single point of contact for all matters related to a broadband network project:
(1)
The single point of contact documentation shall include;
Chairman
Madison County, Georgia
706-795-6300
www.madisoncountyga.us
(2)
The single point of contact shall be available for matters related to a broadband network project or a related liaison who may direct such inquiry in real time, with general scope and responsibilities to include permitting and right-of-way; and
(3)
The single point of contact information must be current to maintain designation, by updating with such change in contact information on web pages and associated sources, within 15 calendar days of change.
(c)
Application completeness review.
(1)
Madison County shall determine whether an application is incomplete and notify the applicant, by email, of the determination by Madison County within ten calendar days of receiving an application.
(2)
If Madison County does not respond to the applicant on whether the application is incomplete, within ten calendar days, the application shall be assumed to be complete on the 11 th day.
(d)
Notification of incomplete application.
(1)
If Madison County determines that an application is not complete, the notification by email to the applicant shall specify all required components of the submitted application that were considered 'incomplete';
(2)
Madison County's response shall include a checklist of sequenced items that resulted in the application being deemed 'incomplete' and the review timeline shall be as follows:
a.
The applicant has up to 40 calendar days from the date of notification of incompleteness to respond back with corrections; and
b.
If the applicant does not respond back within 40 calendar days, the application is deemed canceled.
(3)
If within ten calendar days Madison County does not respond to the applicant on whether the corrected application is incomplete, the application shall be assumed to be complete on the 11 th day; and
(4)
Madison County shall require a new submission and reset the process and application fees, should an application be deemed incomplete a second time.
(e)
Approval or denial notification. If, on or before the 11 th day as described in [section] (c)(2), an application is deemed complete, Madison County shall approve or deny an application within ten calendar days unless a joint meeting between the applicant and Madison County is deemed as necessary.
(1)
If a joint meeting is deemed necessary, the joint meeting must occur within 15 calendars days of notification of completion and the joint meeting shall include:
a.
Where applicant is going to conduct work,
b.
When the work will be conducted,
c.
What type of work will be done,
d.
Who the Madison County can contact for specific details or related questions, and
e.
Any permit seeking approval under application.
f.
Following a joint meeting between the applicant and the Madison County, the Madison County shall deny or approve the application within ten calendar days.
(2)
Upon final approval, any required permit permitted shall be deemed issued.
(f)
Related fees.
(1)
Any fee imposed by Madison County to review an application, issue a permit, or perform any other activity related to a broadband network project shall be reasonable, cost based, and nondiscriminatory to all applicants.
(2)
Any application fee that exceeds $100.00 shall be considered unreasonable unless Madison County can provide documentation justifying such fee based on a specific cost.
(g)
Other information.
(1)
Double fee: Madison County shall not require an application or permit(s) when already approved by an authorized state or federal jurisdiction. Provider shall notify and provide a copy of the approved permit to the single-point-of-contact at the city or county prior to access of right-of-way within the city or county jurisdiction.
(2)
Application validity timeline: Any approved application shall be valid for six months from the date of approval. Should a provider not commence the service request qualified in the approved application within six months, the application shall expire, and it shall require a new permit approval and any associated fees, as applicable.
(3)
Single service drop: Madison County shall not require a permit for a broadband service provider to perform an installation of broadband service at an individual customer's service address as long as the facility being utilized only transverses a deminimis portion of the public right-of-way to reach the customer's property. The provider must still comply with the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 25 of the O.C.G.A.
(h)
Madison County acknowledges:
(1)
A Georgia Certified Broadband Ready Community has an affirmative duty to notify the Georgia Department of Community Affairs of any changes to the information submitted as part of its application; and
(2)
Failure to notify Georgia Department of Community Affairs of changes may result in revocation of Madison County's Broadband Ready Certification, should the certification be granted.
(Ord. of 7-27-2021 )
