PART I - RELATED LAWS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 255), page 2667, as adopted by the General Assembly and effective on July 1, 1976. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. The words "chairman" and "chairperson" are indicated herein as enacted by the General Assembly.

Section 1. - [Board of commissioners.]
There is created a board of commissioners of Madison County to consist of five members and a chairman to be elected as provided in this Act. Each candidate for membership on the board shall be a resident of the commissioner district created by Section 2 of this Act which he offers to represent and shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters of such district voting in such election. Each candidate for chairman of the board of commissioners shall be a resident of Madison County and shall be elected by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the entire county voting in such election.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4692, § 1)
Section 2. - [Commissioner districts.]
(a)
For the purpose of electing the members of the board of commissioners, Madison County shall be divided into five commissioner districts. The districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as "Plan: madisonccsb-2012 Plan Type: Local Administrator: Madison Co User: Gina".
(b)
For purposes of such plan:
(1)
The term "VTD" shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a "VTD" heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(c)
Any part of Madison County which is not included in any such district described in subsection (b) of this section shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
Any part of Madison County which is described in subsection (b) of this section as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(e)
On and after the effective date of this Act, members of the board serving from former Commissioner Districts 1, 3, and 5 shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this section; the member of the board serving from former Commissioner District 2 shall be deemed to be serving from Commissioner District 4 as newly described under this section; and the member from former Commissioner District 4 shall be deemed to be serving from Commissioner District 2 as newly described in this section.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4692, § 1; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 648), page 4873, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 546), page 4428, § 1; 2012 Ga. Laws, (Act No. 358), page [to be determined], §§ 1, 2)
Section 3. - [Terms of office; elections.]
The chairperson and members in office on the effective date of this Act and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall complete the terms to which they were elected and until successors are elected and qualified as provided in this Act. At the general election in November, 2014, the successors to the members of the board of commissioners representing reconstituted Districts 3, 4, and 5 as provided in subsection (b) of Section 2 of this Act shall be elected to take office on January 1, 2015, for terms of four years. At the general election in November, 2012, the successors to the chairperson and members of the board of commissioners representing reconstituted Districts 1 and 2 as provided in subsection (b) of Section 2 shall be elected to take office on January 1, 2013, for terms of four years. Thereafter, all successors shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office and shall serve terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4692, § 1; 2008 Ga. Laws, (Act No. 648), page 4104; 2012 Ga. Laws, (Act No. 358), page [to be determined], §§ 1, 2)
Section 4. - [Residency.]
Members of the board of commissioners shall be citizens of this state who have been residents of their respective commissioner districts preceding their election and shall hold no other elective public office. The chairman shall be a citizen of this state who has been a resident of Madison County preceding his election and shall hold no other elective public office.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4692, § 1)
Section 5. - [Day and time of meetings.]
The board shall meet at least twice monthly, on a day and time to be determined by the board. Public notice shall be given of the time, place, and date of each such meeting. The board may hold special meetings at any time on the call of the chairperson or on the call of the majority of the members of the board; provided, further, no such special or called meeting shall be held for any purpose unless notice thereof has been given in writing to all members of the board at least 48 hours prior to the time set for said meeting. Said notice may be waived by the members of the board, provided the waivers are in writing and signed by all members of the board and made a part of the record. Proceedings of any meetings not held in conformity and in compliance with the foregoing shall be null, void, and of no effect.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 1; 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1070, page 4775, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 238), page 4095, § 1)
Section 6. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Res. of 06-05-2017(1) , adopted June 5, 2017, repealed § 6, which pertained to [executive or secret meetings] and derived from 1966 Ga. Laws 2667.
Section 7. - [Quorum.]
Three members of the board, not including the chairperson, shall constitute a quorum and no action shall be taken by the board without the concurring vote of at least three members. A majority vote of the entire board will control the determination of all policies on the board. All members of the board other than the chairperson shall be required to vote on all questions coming before the board unless a member shall be disqualified to vote thereon because of conflict of interest or other legal reason. The chairperson shall be the executive administrator of all policies of the board and shall be authorized to vote only to break a tie vote, unless the chairperson shall be disqualified to vote thereon because of conflict of interest or other legal reason. The chairperson shall have authority, with the concurrence and approval of a majority of the members of the board, to employ all personnel and county employees and such clerical help as is necessary, in their judgment, to conduct the affairs of the office properly, and at such salaries as they may deem proper.
(1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1044), page 4692, § 2; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 648), page 4873, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 238), page 4095, § 2)
Section 8. - [Chairman.]
The chairman shall act as county treasurer and shall have all the duties imposed by law upon the treasurer except such duties as may be in conflict with the duties specifically imposed herein, but no additional salary shall be allowed for such position as treasurer.
Section 9. - [Salary.]
(a)
[Generally.]
(1)
The chairperson of the board of commissioners of Madison County shall receive an annual salary in an amount equal to the annual salary now or hereafter received by the sheriff of Madison County; provided, however, that the chairperson shall receive an annual cost-of-living increase in salary as provided in this subsection notwithstanding the fact that such increase results in a salary higher than that of the sheriff. The salary of the chairperson shall be payable in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(2)
Members of the board other than the chairperson shall receive a salary of $7,200.00 per annum, plus an additional $25.00 per month for each full year of service as commissioner, not to exceed an additional $300.00 per month. Such salary shall be payable in equal monthly installments from county funds. Members of the board of commissioners other than the chairperson shall receive the increase in compensation set out in this paragraph only after performing the following procedures; the board of commissioners shall advertise, at least seven days in advance, a public hearing on the subject of the increase in compensation; at such public hearing or another meeting of the board of commissioners after due notice that the increase in compensation will be discussed, the board shall adopt, by majority vote, a resolution setting out the board's request for such increase in compensation. Failure or refusal to follow these procedures in full will make the increase in compensation set out in this paragraph void and of no effect.
(3)
Whenever the employees in the classified service of the state merit system receive a cost-of-living increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the salaries of the chairperson and other members of the board shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase received by the state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the salaries of the chairperson and other members of the board shall be increased by a percentage or an amount equal to the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. The periodic changes in the salaries of the chairperson and other members of the board shall become effective six months following the date that the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective.
(4)
The vice chairperson of the board of commissioners shall receive an additional $600.00 per year, payable in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(b)
[Travel expenses.] In addition to the salaries provided in subsection (a) of this section, each member of the board, including the chairman, may receive up to, but not in excess of, $1,000.00 per annum in travel expenses. Such travel expenses shall be paid only for out-of-county travel on county business at actual transportation cost while traveling by public carrier or actual miles traveled at the prevailing rate paid per mile by the State of Georgia for its employees when using a personal automobile. Each member shall be paid such travel expenses upon submitting to the clerk of the board a statement of such travel supported by proper vouchers. If a member of the board fails to incur $1,000.00 in travel expenses, such balance remaining shall not be carried over to the next calendar year.
(1967 Ga. Laws (Act No. 208, page 2515, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 2; 1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 854), page 3559, § 1; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 1; 1988 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1070), page 4775, § 2; 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 280), page 4716, § 1; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 927), page 4509, § 1)
Editor's note— See also provisions pertaining to expenses in section 10.
Section 9A. - Reserved.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 3; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 1; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 238), page 4095, § 3)
Section 10. - [Reimbursement of expenses.]
In addition to the salaries set forth in section 9 of this Act, the chairman and each member of the board shall, upon submission of an expense voucher, be reimbursed for expenses as follows:
(1)
A sum not to exceed $300.00 per month for general expenses, including without limitation office supplies; postage; telephone service; transportation within the county or to and from locations not more than 50 miles from the county boundaries, reimbursed at the rate of $0.25 per mile; and other general expenses incurred in the exercise of the duties of office; and
(2)
In addition to the amount provided by paragraph (1) of this section, a sum not to exceed $500.00 per month for expenses related to travel to locations more than 50 miles from the boundaries of the county, including without limitation meals, lodging, and transportation incurred in the exercise of the duties of office, reimbursed at the rate of $0.25 per mile.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 4; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 480, § 2; 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 280), page 4716, § 2)
Editor's note— See also provisions pertaining to expenses in section 9.
Section 10A. - [Reports.]
The board shall make a semiannual report evidencing the assets, liabilities, revenues received and expenditures relative to Madison County. The report shall also show where county funds are deposited. The report shall be in resume form, signed by the members of the board and published in the official organ of Madison County. A resume of the auditor's report may serve as one of such reports.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 5)
Section 10B. - [Compensation.]
The board of commissioners shall be authorized to compensate the clerk of the superior court, judge of the probate court, sheriff, tax commissioner, county attorney, or any department head in the Madison County government or the designee of any of the above officers for out-of-county travel expenses in the performance of official duties. Each office or department shall be limited to $1,000.00 per annum travel expenses including actual miles traveled when using a personal automobile at the prevailing rate paid by the State of Georgia to its employees; provided, however, that the board by a majority vote of its members may waive the $1,000.00 maximum limitation with respect to extraordinary travel expenses incurred by the sheriff's office in the performance of official duties. Travel expenses shall be paid upon the submission of a statement of travel supported by proper vouchers. If an office or department fails to incur $1,000.00 in travel expenses, such balance remaining shall not be carried over to the next calendar year.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 3)
Section 11. - [Policies.]
At the first meeting in January of each year the board shall hold, in addition to its regular meeting, a meeting to determine the policies of the board as to its employees, their salaries and duties, and what disciplinary measures shall be taken against employees who have been or are derelict in their duties. In addition to the policies relating to the employees, the board shall also determine its policies as to the building or construction of roads and bridges, not including state or federal highways, and policies as to the repair and upkeep of said roads and bridges. After the adoption of said policies as hereinbefore stated, the same may not be changed or altered in any respect except at a regular meeting of the board at which at least three members are present. The chairman shall deliver all orders and instructions to all employees of the county in accordance with the aforesaid policies, and said orders and instructions may not be countermanded by any other member or members of the board except at a regular meeting as aforesaid. Willful disobedience of an order of the chairman shall be grounds for dismissal of any employee of the county, and the board shall not have the authority to reinstate said employee except with the consent and approval of the chairman.
Section 12. - [Duties.]
The board shall be charged with the entire fiscal responsibility of the county, and shall have the general duty to see that all fines, bond forfeitures, cash bonds, tax collections and other fees, and all other county income and county funds are properly and promptly remitted to the county treasurer. The board shall be obligated to pay all salaries or other lawful claims against the county from the funds of the county.
Section 13. - [Powers.]
The board shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters to wit: In managing and controlling all property of the county as they may deem it for the best interest of the county according to law; in levying general taxes for general purposes and special taxes for special purposes, according to law; in establishing, maintaining or abolishing all roads, bridges, and ferries, according to law; in having an accounting with all county officers charged with receipt and disbursement of county funds, and bringing them to a settlement; in establishing or abolishing or changing election precincts or militia districts; in providing for the paupers of the county; the promotion of the health of the county, in accordance with law; in examining the tax digests of the county and the correction of errors therein; in regulating and fixing license fees as may be provided by law; in supplying by appointment all vacancies in county offices and ordering elections to fill the same; in examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county; in electing and appointing all officers and employees of said county, whose election is not provided for by law, and in fixing their duties and compensation and in making all rules and regulations covering the scope and duty of such officer [sic] and employees; and to have and exercise all the powers heretofore vested by law in the ordinaries of the counties of Georgia when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise all other such powers as are granted by law, or as may be indispensable to their jurisdiction over county matters or county finances, including the power to administer oaths, subpoena witnesses and punish for contempt. The enumeration of powers and duties hereinbefore made shall not be construed as a limitation of the powers of the board to such powers expressly enumerated. The board is hereby expressly given complete power, authority, and control relative to county matters in Madison County.
Section 14. - [Bond.]
The chairman shall be placed under a bond of $50,000.00 payable to the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Madison County, conditioned upon his performance of his duties in accordance with law, the premium for such bond to be paid by the county.
Section 15. - [Clerk of the board of commissioners.]
The chairman shall have authority to employ a clerk of the board of commissioners of Madison County who shall serve at the pleasure of the chairman, except as further provided in this Act. The clerk shall be required to have accounting and bookkeeping experience. The clerk shall be required to record the minutes of all meetings, to countersign all county warrants, and to perform such other duties as may be required by this Act or the chairman. The clerk shall be placed under a bond of $50,000.00 payable to the board of commissioners of Madison County, the premiums to be paid by the county. The clerk shall be compensated in an amount to be determined by the board of commissioners and shall be paid in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1210), page 3647, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1226), page 3287, § 1; 1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 850), page 2733, § 6; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 4)
Section 15A. - [Federal community development block grants; services; contracts.]
(a)
Supplementary to any existing authority granted by law, the board of commissioners of Madison County shall be authorized to expend public funds and participate in community development block grant programs and other federal programs to provide services or construct facilities to carry out the following purposes:
(1)
Providing day care services primarily to the children of persons of low and moderate income;
(2)
Providing services to elderly persons;
(3)
Providing health education, literacy and English language instruction, mental health and handicap services, legal assistance, emergency food, and medical assistance to low and moderate income persons; and
(4)
Any combination of services authorized in this paragraph.
(b)
The board of commissioners of Madison County is further authorized to carry out the purposes of this Code section by contracting with public agencies and nonprofit entities described in O.C.G.A. § 36-87-2 (a)(2).
(c)
Any contracts, programs, projects, or expenditures of public funds authorized by this Code section which were entered into, carried out, undertaken, or made prior to the effective date of this Code section are validated and confirmed.
(1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1226), page 3287, § 2; 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 5; 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1013), page 4520, § 1)
Section 16. - [Vice-chairman.]
The board shall have the authority to appoint one of its members as vice-chairman of the board. In the absence of the chairman or in the event of his incapacity, or in the event of his failure to perform his duties for any cause, then the vice-chairman shall act as chairman of the board and shall have all the duties, powers and responsibility of the chairman. The absence of the chairman from his office for a continuous period of two calendar months will authorize the board, in its discretion, to declare the office of the chairman to be vacant, and they shall proceed to fill said vacancy, by appointment, until such time as the ordinary can proceed to call and conduct an election to fill the vacancy.
Section 17. - [Chairman to be full-time employee.]
The chairman shall be a full-time employee of Madison County.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 6)
Section 18. - Reserved.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 7)
Section 19. - [Contracts and purchases.]
(a)
The board of commissioners shall adopt, and may amend from time to time as it deems appropriate, a county policy governing the manner and method of county purchases and contracts for goods and services.
(b)
The county policy adopted by the board of commissioners shall grant the chairman of the board authority to make purchases and contracts below a specified threshold without the necessity of obtaining board approval nor following preliminary steps such as seeking bids or quotations. The specified threshold shall be no less than $10,000.00 and nor more than $100,000.00, except in the case of emergency purchases as defined by the board in its policy.
(Res. of 6-29-2020 )
Section 20. - [Audits.]
An independent auditor shall make an annual audit of the books and records of the board as of December 31 in each year. The ordinary of the county shall appoint said independent auditor on or before December 1 of each year. The report of said independent auditor shall be published in the official gazette of Madison County as soon as said report has been completed.
Editor's note— The duties of the ordinary have been transferred to the judge of the probate court.
Section 21. - [Act of 1914 repealed.]
Upon the effective date of this Act entitled "An Act to create the office of commissioner of roads and revenues for the county of Madison; to provide for the election of such officer thereof by the qualified voters of said county; to fix his salary, define his powers and duties; and for other purposes," approved August 17, 1914, (1914 Ga. Laws, page 316), as amended, is hereby repealed.
Section 22. - [Effective dates.]
The provisions of this Act, except as to the provisions relating to the election of the initial members of the board other than the chairman, shall become effective 15 days after said members are elected to the board. The initial election for the members to the board other than the chairman shall be conducted by the ordinary of Madison County. The date of such election shall be fixed by the ordinary so as to coincide with the first county-wide election which is conducted in Madison County after the approval of this Act. In the event no county-wide election is conducted in Madison County in the year 1965, prior to the first day of September thereof, it shall be the duty of the ordinary to fix the date of such election to be held no later than October 1, 1965. Those candidates elected to the board shall take office 15 days following their election and shall serve until December 31, 1968. Thereafter, successors to the present commissioner of roads and revenues of Madison County, who shall become chairman of the board created herein upon the effective date of this Act, and the members of the board shall be elected at such time as other county officers are elected and shall serve for a term of office of four years and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Editor's note— The duties of the ordinary have been transferred to the judge of the probate court.
Section 23. - [Hours of operation of county offices.]
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-1-12, the hours of operation of all county offices, including the offices of clerk of the superior court, probate court, tax commissioner, and board of commissioners of Madison County shall be from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday with the exception of holidays set by the board of commissioners in their policy.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 8; 1997 Ga. Laws (Act No. 238), page 4095, § 4)
Section 24. - Reserved.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 8; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 542), page 3552, § 1)
Section 25. - [Uniform work regulations.]
The board of commissioners shall have the authority to adopt uniform work regulations for all county employees.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 8)
Section 26. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 469), page 4802, § 8)
