ARTICLE III. - NOISE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-76. - Authority.
This article is adopted pursuant to the authority delegated to the board of commissioners under Ga. Const. art. IX, § 2, ¶ 3 and other applicable laws, statutes, ordinances and regulations of the state.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 102)
Sec. 34-77. - Purpose and intent.
The board of commissioners, finding that excessive levels of sound are a nuisance and are disturbing to the physical, mental and social well-being of the citizens of the county as well as to their comfort, living conditions, general welfare and safety, declares to be the policy of the board of commissioners to prohibit such excessive sounds generated from or by all sources as specified in this article.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 103)
Sec. 34-78. - Jurisdiction.
(a)
The provisions in this article shall be applicable in the unincorporated area of the county. This article shall govern any unnecessary or excessive sounds within the county's jurisdiction, except as preempted by state or federal law.
(b)
Any person within the limits of the unincorporated area of the county shall conform to the minimum requirements set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 104)
Sec. 34-79. - Administration, interpretations.
(a)
It is the responsibility of the county manager or his designee to administer the provisions of this article to abate any excessive sound existing in the county, whether or not such excessive sound is specifically recognized by this article.
(b)
The board of commissioners, upon written request, shall provide interpretations concerning provisions of this article that are unclear or in dispute.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 105; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 34-80. - Enforcement and penalties.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the county manager or his designee to enforce this article and to bring to the attention of the sheriff any violations or lack of compliance with this article. Citations for violations of this article shall be issued by the sheriff or his lawful deputies, and such citations shall be tried in the magistrate court under the rules of practice and procedure in that court.
(b)
Violations of the provisions of this article shall be deemed a misdemeanor, punishable as provided by law with each day such violations continue constituting a separate offense. Any person who fails to comply with or violates this article shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000.00 for each offense and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the prosecution of the violation. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by law or in equity to prevent any violations of this article, and these remedies shall be in addition to such penalties.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall prohibit the abatement of any loud and unnecessary noise as a nuisance under state law or local ordinance.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 106; Ord. of 5-28-2013)
Sec. 34-81. - Conflict with other laws.
If this article is found to be in conflict with any other applicable law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations that impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 107)
Sec. 34-82. - Amendments.
When necessary to further its purposes, this article shall be amended by the board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. I, § 108)
Sec. 34-83. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ambient noise level means the all-encompassing noise level associated with a given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources, excluding the alleged excessive sound, at the location and approximate time at which the alleged offensive noise is to be made.
A-weighted sound level means the sound pressure level in decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is designated dBA.
Building means any structure having a roof, supported by columns or by walls and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal or goods. Where roofed structures are separated from each other by party walls having no opening for passage, each portion so separated shall be considered a building.
Construction means any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair, alteration, demolition or similar action.
Continuous sound means a sound the intensity of which remains essentially constant during a given period of time. Continuous sound shall be measured by the slow response setting of a sound level meter.
Cumulative period means an accumulative period of time composed of individual time segments, which may be continuous or impulsive.
Decibel (dB) means a unit of sound intensity. The faintest audible sound is arbitrarily assigned a value of 0 dB, and the loudest sounds that the human ear can tolerate are about 120 dB. The difference in decibels between any two sounds is equal to 10 log 10 (P 1 /P 2 ), where P 1 and P 2 are the two power levels.
Daytime means the local time of day between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and local legal holidays.
Emergency means any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage that demands immediate action.
Emergency machinery, vehicle, work or alarm means any machinery, vehicle, work or alarm used, employed, performed or operated in an effort to protect, provide or restore safe conditions in the community or for its citizenry, or work by private or public utilities when restoring utility service.
Emergency signal device means any audible warning device, such as a whistle, siren or any air horn or any similar device.
Frequency means the number of complete cycles of a periodic process occurring per unit of time.
Hertz means a unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second.
Impulsive sound means a sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound include explosions and the discharge of firearms.
Intruding noise level means the total sound level, in decibels, created, caused, maintained or originating from an alleged offensive source at a specified location while the alleged offensive source is in operation.
Lot means a parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal building or use and any accessory building and uses customarily incident to it, and including open spaces not less in extent that those required in connection therewith by the subdivision, zoning, land development or other county regulations pertaining to land development.
Lot lines means the property lines bounding the lot.
(1)
Front lot line means, in the case of a lot abutting upon a public street, the line separating such lot from such street right-of-way.
(2)
Rear lot line ordinarily means that lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line of the lot. In the case of an irregularly shaped lot, the county planner shall designate the rear lot line.
(3)
Side lot line means any lot line that is not a front or rear lot line.
Mobile source means any moving sound source on a public right-of-way or on property used by or open to use by the public.
Nighttime means those hours excluded from the definition of "daytime."
Noise means sound or a sound that is loud, unpleasant, unexpected, or undesired and affects or tends to affect the mental well-being of humans.
Noise disturbance means any sound that:
(1)
Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
(2)
Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities;
(3)
Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
(4)
Exceeds the applicable maximum permissible sound levels as they appear in the table in section 34-107.
Right-of-way means a strip of land owned and used by the general public, railroads or utility companies for transportation or other special use. For land platting purposes, every right-of-way established and shown on an approved final plat is to be separate and distinct from adjoining lots or parcels and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for transportation and utilities shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
Sound means a vibratory disturbance (including an oscillation) in the pressure and/or density of a liquid or gas in the particular displacement of a solid or liquid. Such disturbance takes place at a rate between approximately 20 and 20,000 hertz and the physiological perception of such a vibration of displacement.
Sound amplifying equipment means any machine or device for the amplification of the human voice, music or any other sound. Sound amplifying equipment shall not be construed as including a standard automobile radio when used and heard only by occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on other vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes.
Sound level means that which is measured with the "A" weighting network on a sound level meter unless otherwise specified.
Sound level meter means the instrument, meeting the requirements of ANSI S1.4-1971 type II rating, used for making sound level measurements.
Sound pressure means the instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by sound energy.
Sound pressure level means the intensity in decibels of a sound.
Stationary source means any sound source operating or occurring on any public or private property, not including a public right-of-way.
Vibration means any movement of earth, ground or other similar surface created by a temporal and spatial oscillation of displacement, velocity or acceleration in any mechanical device or equipment located upon, attached, affixed or in conjunction with that surface.
Weekday means any Monday through Friday that is not a legal holiday.
Zoning district means the scheme of land use classification contained in chapter 70.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. II, § 202)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 34-84—34-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 34-106. - Loud and unnecessary noises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, assist in making, permit, continue, cause to be made or continued or permit the continuance of loud or unnecessary noise that annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the unincorporated area of the county.
(Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. III, § 301)
Sec. 34-107. - Measurement and control of noise.
(a)
Any decibel measurement made pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be based on a reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals as measured with a sound level meter using the "A" weighted network scale at slow response.
(b)
The location selected for measuring exterior noise levels shall be at any point on the affected property. Interior noise measurements shall be made within the affected unit. The measurements shall be made at a point at least four feet from the wall, ceiling or floor nearest the noise source with windows in an open position depending on the normal seasonal ventilation requirements.
(c)
The zoning districts of the county are assigned the following maximum permissible sound levels from stationary sources:
EXPAND
Zoning
District Time of Day Continuous
Sound (dB) Impulsive
Sound (dB)
AG-1 Any time 90 120
R-1L, R-3L Daytime
Nighttime 70
50 110
80
R-1, R-2, R-3, MHP Daytime
Nighttime 60
50  80
70
C-1, C-2, C-3 Daytime
Nighttime 65
60  90
80
I-1, I-2 Any time 70 110
  (Ord. of 4-23-1997, art. III, § 302)
Secs. 34-108—34-200. - Reserved.
