[ARTICLE VIII. - PARKS AND RECREATION AUTHORITY][9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Act No. 658, §§ 1—21, of the Georgia General Assembly, passed by the House on March 19, 2004, passed by the Senate on March 31, 2004, and approved by the Governor on May 17, 2004. The provisions of said Act have been codified as article VIII, sections 1—21, at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 1. - Title.
This division shall be known and may be cited as the "Lee County Parks and Recreation Authority Act."
(Act No. 658, § 1, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 2. - Created.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Lee County Parks and Recreation Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation. By that name, style, and title, said body may contract and be contracted with; sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents, and employees. The authority shall not be a state institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall be an instrumentality of the state, a mere creation of the state, having a distinct corporate entity and being exempt from the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 50, ch. 17, art. 2, the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act." The authority shall have its principal office in the county and its legal situs or residence for the purposes of this division shall be the county. The scope of the authority's operation shall be limited to the territory embraced within the county. The authority is granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now granted to cities and counties for the operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the authority as provided under the provisions of this division.
(b)
The authority shall consist of five members appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of the county, any of whom may be members of such governing authority, and the county manager, who shall be an ex officio, nonvoting member of the authority. Members of the county parks and recreation authority shall be appointed for terms of two years, and members may succeed themselves in office. If a member of a governing authority is appointed as a member of the authority, his or her term shall terminate at the end of his or her term of office on the governing authority or upon his or her ceasing to be a member of the governing authority. Such person may be reappointed as a member of the authority.
(c)
The members of the authority shall enter upon their duties immediately upon the next scheduled meeting following their appointment.
(d)
(1)
Any vacancy on the authority shall be filled in the same manner as was the original appointment of the member whose termination of membership resulted in such vacancy, and the person so selected and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(2)
Any member of the authority may be removed from office by a majority vote of the appointing entity for failure to perform his or her duties as a member of the authority. Such failure shall include without limitation absence from four consecutive meetings of the authority, unless excused by reasonable grounds as determined by a majority of the members of the authority. Any office so vacated shall be filled within 60 days by appointment as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection. The new appointee shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term to which he or she is appointed.
(e)
Each January, the authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson, one of its members as vice chairperson, and one of its members as secretary and treasurer. Such officers shall serve terms of one year.
(f)
Three members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(g)
The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government according to Robert's Rules of Order. It shall have perpetual existence.
(h)
No member or employee of the authority shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority.
(i)
All meetings of the authority shall be open to the public as provided in O.C.G.A tit. 50, ch. 14.
(Act No. 658, § 2, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this division, the term:
(1)
Authority shall mean the Lee County Parks and Recreation Authority created in section 2 of this division.
(2)
Cost of the project shall encompass the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof; the cost of all machinery and equipment and financing charges and interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal services and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; the cost of administrative services and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this division; and the cost of the acquisition and construction of any project and the placing of such project into operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this division for such project.
(3)
Project shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, and operation of a golf course and related facilities and athletic and recreation centers, facilities, and areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, swimming and wading pools, hiking, camping, and picnicking areas and facilities, lakes, tennis courts, athletic fields and courts, club houses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, youth centers, senior citizen centers, stadiums, related buildings, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities; the acquisition of parking facilities or parking areas in connection therewith; the acquisition of the necessary property thereof; both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real or personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such recreational facilities and areas deemed by the authority to be necessary, convenient, or desirable.
(4)
Revenue bonds, bonds and obligations shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3, the "Revenue Bond Law," and which may be issued by the authority as authorized under the Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall mean obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this division.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including the anticipated revenues and earnings from the lease of any project, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of acquiring, operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(Act No. 658, § 3, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 4. - Powers.
(a)
The authority shall have the following powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of the same, or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall then be in the state, the governor is authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties to such conveyance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to acquire and construct any project on any lands, the title to which shall be in the name of the county board of commissioners or any municipality incorporated in that county, such entity is authorized to convey title to such lands to the authority upon the receipt of such lawful consideration as may be determined by the parties of such conveyances or upon payment for the credit of the general funds of such county or municipalities of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by mutual consent of such county or municipality and the authority or by an appraiser to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of such county or municipality and the chairperson of the authority;
(4)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for the acquisition and construction of projects and leases of projects and contracts with respect to the use of projects which the authority causes to be erected or acquired, including contracts for acquiring, constructing, renting, and leasing of its projects for the use of the county or any municipality in the county, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character; any and all persons, firms, and corporations and the state and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authorization is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts and lease and sublease agreements with the state or any agencies or departments thereof relative to parks and recreational centers, areas, and facilities and relative to any property which such departments or agencies of the state have now or may hereafter obtain by lease from the United States government or any agencies or departments thereof, and the authority is specifically authorized to convey title in fee simple to any and all of its lands and any improvements thereon to any persons, firms, corporations, municipalities, the state or the United States government, or any agencies or departments thereof, subject to the rights and interest of the holders of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this division and by the resolution or trust indenture of the authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in this division;
(5)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in this division, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the authority or from such proceeds or other funds or any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(6)
To accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality thereof may impose;
(7)
To accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the state or any agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the state or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof may impose;
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidence of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from the funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(9)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions which is not in conflict with the Constitution or laws of this state;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes from any bank, banks, or other lending institutions and to execute evidence of such indebtedness and to secure the same by assigning all rights to and pledging all funds to be received by the authority from a lease or leases entered into by the authority as the lessor and the county or a municipality within it as the lessee;
(11)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this division; and
(12)
To make recommendations to the county board of commissioners on land acquisition, facilities development, and other matters relating to the provision of recreation and recreational opportunities to the citizens of the county and the municipalities within it.
(b)
The authority is specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real and personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the authority was created.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this division to the contrary, any loan to the authority exceeding $10,000.00 shall be approved by a majority vote of the county board of commissioners prior to such loan becoming effective.
(Act No. 658, § 4, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 5. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this division, shall have power and is authorized at one time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this division of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided for in this division for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated and shall bear interest at such rate or rates as determined by the authority, payable on such dates as determined by the authority. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3, the "Revenue Bond Law," and all procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in the Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto. The authority shall not issue any such revenue bonds unless such issuance is first approved by majority vote of the county board of commissioners; provided, however, that such approval shall not be construed to cause such political subdivision to have any liability for the repayment of such bonds.
(Act No. 658, § 5, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 6. - Same—Public and governmental purpose of; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this division are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation by the state.
(Act No. 658, § 6, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 7. - Same—Sale; purpose.
The authority may sell such revenue bonds in such manner and for such prices as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority, and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(Act No. 658, § 7, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 8. - Same—Issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this division and O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3, the "Revenue Bond Law." Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this division shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members, subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. tit. 50, ch. 14, governing open and public meetings. Before the vote to issue any revenue bonds, the authority must advertise in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county at least once for three consecutive weeks the intent to vote on the issuance of such bonds. The advertisements shall be a minimum of one-eighth of a page in size and shall list all details of the proposed revenue bond issue, including the date, time, and place of such vote.
(Act No. 658, § 8, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 9. - Same—Not to constitute a debt of state or county.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this division shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the state or the county or a pledge of the faith and credit thereof; but such bonds shall be payable solely from the rentals, revenues, earnings, and funds of the authority as provided in the resolution or trust agreement or indenture authorizing the issuance and securing the payment of such bonds. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any political subdivision thereof, including the county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. However, the county or any other political subdivision of the state contracting with the authority may obligate itself to pay the amounts required under any contract entered into with the authority from funds received from taxes to be levied and collected for that purpose to the extent necessary to pay the obligations contractually incurred under this section and from any other source; and the obligation to make such payments shall constitute a general obligation and a pledge of the full faith and credit of the obligor but shall not constitute a debt of the obligor within the meaning of Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia. When such obligation is made to make such payments from taxes to be levied for that purpose, then the obligation shall be mandatory to levy and collect such taxes from year to year in an amount sufficient to fulfill and fully comply with the terms of such obligation. Without limiting the obligations of any political subdivision of the state contracting with the authority in accordance with this division, it shall be required that prior to entering into any such contract, the authority or the political subdivision with which such contract will be executed shall prepare or cause to be prepared a feasibility study including a projection of revenues for the project which is the subject of such contract. The political subdivision entering into a contract with the authority shall, prior to entering into the contract, properly advertise its intention and call at least one public hearing on the subject at least three weeks prior to the date on which the political subdivision plans to vote to approve the signing of the contract.
(Act No. 658, § 9, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 10. - Revenues; payment of bonds.
The revenues, rents, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects and any and all revenue, rents, and earnings received by the authority, regardless of whether such revenues, rents, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged, may be pledged by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as may be provided in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust indenture pertaining to such bonds. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which may include funds received from one or more or all sources, may be set aside at regular intervals into sinking funds for which provision may be made in any such resolution or trust indenture and which may be pledged to and charged with the payment of the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall become due; the principal of the bonds as the same shall mature; the necessary charges of any trustee or agent of paying such principal and interest; and any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase. The use and disposition of any sinking fund may be subject to such regulation as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture securing the payment of the same.
(Act No. 658, § 10, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 11. - Exercise of powers.
The exercise of the powers conferred upon the authority in this division shall constitute an essential governmental function for a public purpose, and the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments upon any of the property acquired by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation and maintenance of property acquired by it or of buildings erected or acquired by it or any fees, rentals, or other charges for the use of such property or buildings or other income received by the authority. The tax exemption provided in this division shall not include an exemption from sales and use tax on property purchased by or for the use of the authority.
(Act No. 658, § 11, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 12. - Immunity and exemption from liability.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the state, and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority, when in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity from liability for torts and negligence as officers, agents, and employees of the state. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligation of the authority. The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process.
(Act No. 658, § 12, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 13. - Action to protect or enforce rights.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this division or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the superior court of the county, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this division shall likewise be brought in that court which shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of such actions.
(Act No. 658, § 13, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 14. - Validation of bonds.
Bonds issued by the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 82, art. 3, the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the state or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality of the state or the United States government or any department or agency of the United States government, if subject to being sued and if consenting to same, which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as part of the basis of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the authority.
(Act No. 658, § 14, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 15. - Interest and rights of bond holders.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this division shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this division shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(Act No. 658, § 15, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 16. - Funds received in trust.
All funds received pursuant to the authority of this division, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds or as loans, revenue, rents, fees, charges, or other earnings or as grants, gifts, or other contributions shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied by the authority solely as provided in this division, and the bondholders entitled to receive the benefits of such funds shall have a lien on all such funds until the same are applied as provided for in any such resolution or trust indenture of the authority.
(Act No. 658, § 16, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 17. - Budget.
(a)
The authority shall prepare a budget for each operating year. Funding for the authority shall be provided by the county board of commissioners.
(b)
The county parks and recreation authority shall develop a financial and program work plan for both capital and operational requirements for the authority's activities for each fiscal year. Such plan shall be known as the "Annual Operating and Capital Budget of the Lee County Parks and Recreation Authority." The plan shall be adopted on or before June 30 of any given year, with an effective date of July 1. All projected revenues and estimated expenditures shall be clearly outlined as to source and expenditure classification and purpose. The proposed budget shall not become effective until it has been approved by the county board of commissioners. The authority shall make no expenditure in excess of $10,000.00 unless such expenditure is itemized in an approved budget or is otherwise approved by such governing authority. The authority shall balance its budget at the end of each fiscal year.
(c)
Each year the county parks and recreation authority shall have made an independent audit and examination of the authority's financial records and transactions. Said audit shall be made in accordance with established national audit and accounting standards. Copies of said audit shall be available for public review and provided to each participating jurisdiction.
(Act No. 658, § 17, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 18. - Officers, agents and employees.
The authority is authorized to appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees and adopt rules and regulations governing their services and fix their respective compensations and terms of employment.
(Act No. 658, § 18, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 19. - Liberal construction of division.
This division and any other law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of the purposes of the authority.
(Act No. 658, § 19, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 20. - Dissolution of authority.
When the authority for any reason is dissolved after full payment of all bonded indebtedness incurred under the provisions of this division, both as to principal and interest, title to all property of any kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall be conveyed to the county; or title to any such property may be conveyed prior to such dissolution in accordance with provisions which may be made therefor in any resolution or trust indenture relating to such property, subject to any liens, leases, or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at the time of such conveyance.
(Act No. 658, § 20, eff. 5-17-04)
Sec. 21. - Resolution to activate authority; appointment of members.
The authority shall not become active until the county board of commissioners approves a resolution to that effect and appoints all members.
(Act No. 658, § 21, eff. 5-17-04)
