ARTICLE IV. - UTILITIES AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1992 Ga. Laws, page 6419, which created the Lee County Utilities Authority. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.
State Law reference— Code of ethics for members of boards, commissions and authorities, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-3.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Lee County Utilities Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Lee County Utilities Authority.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Lee County Utilities Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of seven members, each of whom shall be a citizen of Lee County and two of whom may, but shall not be required to, be members of the board of commissioners of Lee County. Each member of the authority shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Lee County for a term of one year and until his or her successor shall be appointed and seated; except that each person serving as an appointed member of the authority on July 1, 2006, shall continue to serve the remainder of his or her then current term and until a successor shall be appointed by majority vote of the board of commissioners of Lee County. The members of the authority shall be eligible for reappointment. The authority shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson from among its members; and such officers may, but shall not be required to, be members of the board of commissioners of Lee County. The authority shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, who may or may not be members of the authority. Four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the power of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. Each member of the authority who is not a member of the board of commissioners of Lee County shall be entitled to compensation for their services at the rate of $100.00 per month, and all members of the authority shall be reimbursed for the actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The office of any member of the authority shall be declared vacant upon a determination by the members of the board of commissioners of Lee County that such authority member has been, while in office, arrested for or convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature, or a crime involving moral turpitude or is found by the board of commissioners of Lee County to have moved such member's residence from the unincorporated area of Lee County during such member's term of office. The board of commissioners of Lee County shall be authorized to remove any member of the authority from office by a two-thirds vote of the board of commissioners of Lee County in the event that such member of the authority is found by the board of commissioners of Lee County to be guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance in office, is found by the board of commissioners of Lee County to have failed to attend three or more successive regular meetings of the authority without a reasonable excuse approved by a resolution of the authority, or who is found by the board of commissioners of Lee County to have engaged in actions or activities which are determined by the board of commissioners of Lee County to have been detrimental to the carrying out of the duties and obligation of the authority.
(1995 Ga. Laws, page 3518; 1998 Ga. Laws, page 4143; 2005 Ga. Laws, Act No. 194, § 1; Ga. Laws, Act No. 887, § 1, 5-5-2006)
Sec. 3. - Definitions.
As used in this act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
"Authority" shall mean the Lee County Utilities Authority created by section 2 of this act.
(2)
"Cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction; and for one year after completion of construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses, the cost of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this act, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act for such project.
(3)
"Project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition and construction of all necessary and usual water facilities useful and necessary for the obtaining of one or more sources of water supply; the treatment of water and the distribution and sale of water to users and consumers, including counties and municipalities for the purpose of resale, within and outside the territorial boundaries of Lee County; and the operation, maintenance, additions, improvements, and extensions of such facilities so as to assure an adequate water utility system deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of such type of undertaking; the acquisition, construction, equipping, operation, and maintenance of sewerage facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment ponds, plants, and lagoons and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities within and outside the territorial boundaries of Lee County so as to assure an adequate sewerage system, the distribution and sale of cable television services and natural gas to individuals, private concerns, and municipal corporations.
(4)
"Revenue bonds" and "bonds" mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., as now or hereafter amended, known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the authority as authorized under said "Revenue Bond Law" and any amendments thereto and, in addition, shall also mean obligations of the authority the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this act.
(5)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
Sec. 4. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its name by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real or personal property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority. The authority shall be under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this act except from the funds provided under this act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned. No property shall be acquired under the provisions of this act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists unless, at the time such property is so acquired, a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any other lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the governor is authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state, title to such lands to the authority upon payment to the State of Georgia for the credit of the general fund of the state treasury of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governor and the chairperson of the authority;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and without limiting the generality of the above, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations and counties and to the authority to enter into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings relative to the furnishing of water, sewer, cable television, and natural gas and related services and facilities by the authority to such municipal corporations and counties for a term not exceeding 50 years;
(6)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in this act, the cost of any such projects to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(7)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, including the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality, including the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, may impose;
(8)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(9)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the constitution and laws of this state; and
(10)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this act.
(1995 Ga. Laws, page 3518)
Sec. 4.1. - Additional powers.
In addition to those powers enumerated in section 4 of this act, the authority shall have the power:
(1)
To provide standards, regulations, and other requirements for the construction of water and sewer systems by persons and entities other than the authority, and to condition the authority's approval of subdivisions and other developments upon compliance with such standards, regulations, and requirements;
(2)
To require as a condition for the authority's approval of any subdivision development or other development of real property or real property in Lee County that all internal water and sewer systems constructed in such development be deeded to the authority and be connected to and served by the water and sewer facilities of the authority; and
(3)
To require that all persons and entities using water and sewer in Lee County be required to connect to the water and sewer systems owned and operated by the authority under such terms, conditions, and circumstances as provided by the authority.
(1996 Ga. Laws, page 4111)
Sec. 5. - Revenue bonds.
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created by this act, shall have power and is authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this act of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of bonds.
Sec. 6. - Same; form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest.
Sec. 7. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the authority and the official seal of the authority shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the authority. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such person and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the authority by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the delivery date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
Sec. 8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
Sec. 9. - Same; sale; price.
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority.
Sec. 10. - Same; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of such deficit, which unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which said bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided in this act for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
Sec. 11. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
Sec. 12. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
Sec. 13. - Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this act. In the discretion of the authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
Sec. 14. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Lee County or a pledge of the faith and credit of Lee County, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this act and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment thereof, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
Sec. 15. - Same; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
Sec. 16. - Same; to whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank, or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes of this act, subject to such regulations as this act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
Sec. 17. - Same; sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
The necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest; and
(4)
Any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this act.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. 18. - Same; remedies of bondholders.
Except to the extent of the rights provided in this act, any holder of revenue bonds or any of the coupons appertaining thereto issued under the provisions of this act and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture and may either at law or in equity or by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted by this act or under such resolution or trust indenture and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. 19. - Same; refunding bonds.
The authority is authorized to provide by resolution for the issue of revenue refunding bonds of the authority for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. 20. - Same; venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Lee County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. 21. - Same; validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the "Revenue Bond Law," O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the water system or other utilities for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and such municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality, contracting with the said Lee County Utilities Authority.
Sec. 22. - Same; interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
Sec. 23. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this act.
Sec. 24. - Purpose of the authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this act, the general purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, operating, and maintaining self-liquidating projects embracing sources of water supply and the distribution and sale of water and related facilities to individuals, private concerns, and municipal corporations; the acquisition, construction, equipping, operation, and maintenance of sewerage facilities useful and necessary for the gathering of waste matter, and the treatment of sewage of any and every type, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and construction of treatment ponds, plants, and lagoons and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities within and outside the territorial boundaries of Lee County so as to assure an adequate sewerage system, to operate and maintain the distribution and sale of cable television services and natural gas to individuals, private concerns, and municipal corporations; but such general purpose shall not restrict the authority from selling and delivering such utilities directly to consumers in the unincorporated areas of Lee County.
Sec. 25. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The authority is authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges and to revise from time to time the same for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this act to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvements, betterment, or extension of the water utility system and other utilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. 26. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this act, including the basis on which water service and other utilities and facilities shall be furnished.
Sec. 27. - Tort immunity.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Lee County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Lee County when in the performance of their public duties or work of the county.
Sec. 28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 29. - Liberal construction of act.
This act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this act.
Sec. 30. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
The provisions of this act are severable and, if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decisions of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
Sec. 31. - Repeal.
This act does not in any way take from Lee County or any municipality located therein the authority to own, operate, and maintain utility systems or issue revenue certificates as is provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq., the "Revenue Bond Law." All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are repealed.
