Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(11) Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
(11) State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or possess, for the purpose of sale, any alcoholic beverages where such person does not have a license from the city to sell or possess for the purpose sale, such beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
Sec. 6-2. - Discretion of the city.
The mayor and council, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application, or the proposed location of a business concerning the sale of alcoholic beverages. If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of said alcoholic beverage license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
Sec. 6-3. - Applications for license; false statement on license applications; effect.
Applications for licenses to sell alcoholic beverages shall be made of forms prescribed therefor by the mayor and council and shall be made in person at the office of the city clerk. The making of any statement on an application for alcoholic beverage license which shall later be found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of said license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3; Ord. No. 2006-1, § 1, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-4. - Selling to minors, etc., prohibited.
No retailer shall give, sell, or offer to sell any alcoholic beverage to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to said retailer. At any time a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-4)
Sec. 6-5. - Employing minors.
No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business for the selling of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
Sec. 6-6. - Churches and schools.
No retail alcoholic beverage license shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street, or highway.
(Prior Code, § 3-6)
Sec. 6-7. - Alcohol regulations relative to business hours.
(a)
Applicability of section. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to every licensee, agent, servant and employee, and any and all other persons affected.
(b)
Hours of sales generally. Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any licensee or other person to sell, offer for sale, or furnish to others any alcoholic beverages between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any day of the week excepting Sundays. The retail package sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits by the holders of licenses for the package sale of said beverages, but not the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, shall be lawful and permitted on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(c)
Beer and wine package sales. Licensees whose sales of alcoholic beverages consist of beer and/or wine by the package may sell such beverages at any time except on Sundays. Such sales on Sunday shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Business hours for package sales. No retail dealer or licensee for package sales of distilled spirits shall be in his place of business or open his place of business or furnish, sell, or offer for sale any distilled spirits at any time prior to 8:00 a.m. or after 11:45 p.m. For purposes of this section, establishments will be considered "open" if at any time past 11:45 p.m. there are persons inside the establishment other than regular employees who are engaged in activities to close, clean, or stock the establishment, or if the doors to the establishment are unlocked. The only exception to the above may be caused by emergency repairs to equipment and/or facilities.
(e)
Business hours for consumption on the premises. Licensees for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises shall not keep such establishments open between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day of the week, nor at any time on Sundays, except as herein provided. Licensees shall not sell alcoholic beverages between midnight on Saturday and 8:00 a.m. on Monday; provided, however, that licensees may be open but not sell alcoholic beverages from midnight on Saturday until 2:00 a.m. on Sunday. For purposes of this section, establishments will be considered "open" if at any time past 2:00 a.m. there are any persons inside the establishment other than regular employees who are engaged in activities to close, clean, or stock the establishment, or if the doors to the establishment are unlocked. The only exception to the above may be caused by emergency repairs to equipment and/or facilities.
(f)
Holidays. Licensees for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises may sell, offer for sale, or furnish to others alcoholic beverages between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on New Year's Eve and 2:00 a.m. on January 2 unless any of those hours occur on Sunday or Christmas Day. No sales of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall take place at any time on Sunday, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
(g)
Food and restaurant establishments. Notwithstanding the above, licensees of food and restaurant establishments may rent separate and distinct rooms for private parties to be held on Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day. In such event, the licensee shall not sell or serve any alcoholic beverages. Nothing contained in this section shall allow areas commonly regarded as lounges or bars to be open for any reason on Thanksgiving Day or on Christmas Day.
(h)
Elections. Pursuant to the delegation of authority granted to the mayor and council by Act No. 750 (House Bill No. 247) approved April 10, 1985, amending O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20 (b)(B), the sale, both wholesale and retail of alcoholic beverages, to wit: distilled spirits, wine and malt beverages shall be lawful during the polling hours of any election; provided, however, nothing herein shall authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established during such time as the polls are open.
(Prior Code, § 3-7; Ord. No. 2006-1, § 2, 1-10-2006; Ord. No. 2006-13, § 1, 12-28-2006; Ord. No. 2011-6, § 1(1)—(3), 8-23-2011)
Editor's note—
Section 1(4) of Ord. No. 2011-6, adopted Aug. 23, 2011, states "Notwithstanding any other provision of Chapter 6 of the Code of Ordinances, or any other provision of the Code, no sales of alcoholic beverages shall occur in the City of Unadilla on Sunday except as expressly permitted by the provisions of paragraph (1)[(b)] of this section."
Sec. 6-8. - Inspection of business premises authorized.
The business premises of the holder of a retail license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be open to inspection at all times during operation by officers or officials of the city authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Prior Code, § 3-8)
Sec. 6-9. - License to be displayed.
Licenses under this chapter shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which said license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-9)
Sec. 6-10. - Licensed location.
Any business operated under the terms of this chapter must be conducted on the location specified in the license and may not be moved to any other location.
(Prior Code, § 3-10)
Sec. 6-11. - Transfer of license.
No license issued under the terms of this chapter shall be transferable, under any condition whatsoever, and all operations of businesses licensed hereunder shall be directed and controlled by the licensee as the principal party in interest. When the interest of the licensee in the licensed business shall cease, the said license shall be then immediately surrendered to the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 3-11)
Sec. 6-12. - Procedure for revocation and suspension of alcoholic beverage licenses.
(a)
Generally. Any alcoholic beverage license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city may be suspended or revoked for due cause as hereinafter defined after a hearing held for the purpose of considering such suspension or revocation. At least three days prior written notice of time, place, and purpose of such hearing shall be given to the holder of such license, which notice shall contain a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held.
(b)
Due cause defined. "Due cause" for the suspension or revocation of any license shall consist of any of the following:
(1)
The violation of any law, ordinance, or regulation made pursuant to lawful authority for the purpose of regulating such business.
(2)
The change in circumstances of any licensee in such way that had such circumstances existed when the application was filed the license would not have been granted.
(3)
Any recurrent breaches of the peace, disturbances, or altercations occurring on licensed premises, or the failure of the licensee or his employee promptly to report to the city and to the police department any violation of the laws or ordinances governing the licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages, of which he has knowledge.
(4)
The existence of any other condition which would make the continued operation of the licensee's establishment detrimental, harmful, or undesirable to the community.
(Prior Code, § 3-12)
Sec. 6-13. - Responsibility for knowledge of chapter.
All holders of a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall keep a copy of this chapter in their premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof, and each licensee or his agents selling any alcoholic beverage shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this chapter or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-13)
Sec. 6-14. - Compliance of licensee to the law.
No person shall engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this chapter. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this chapter shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the mayor and council. In addition to the rules and regulations hereinabove set out, each licensee doing business in the city under this chapter shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages in the state, and any violation of same shall subject said licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail license and also shall subject such licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-14)
Sec. 6-15. - Reapplication within one year prohibited.
When any license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages is rejected or revoked by the city, the city shall not accept or consider any application from the same applicant for license within 12 months from the time of such rejection or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 3-15)
Sec. 6-16. - Suspension in the event of disorder.
The city is hereby authorized to suspend the sale of alcoholic beverages under any license issued for any emergency situation such as civil disorders or natural disasters or in any situation that the city deems such immediate suspension necessary for the protection of the health and welfare of the citizens of the city. Such suspension may be made effective immediately and shall remain in force until the city determines the emergency is over or until the next meeting of the mayor and council, at which time the suspension shall cease unless the same is extended by affirmative action of the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 3-16)
Sec. 6-17. - Separate retail license; completed building required.
A separate retail license shall be required for each place of business wherein alcoholic beverages are sold. No license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 3, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-18. - Adult businesses.
(a)
Prohibitions.
(1)
No business for which a license is required pursuant to the city ordinance regulating adult businesses shall be licensed to sell, serve, or dispense alcoholic beverages or malt beverages and wine for consumption on such premises within the incorporated area of the city.
(2)
The following types of entertainment, attire, and conduct are prohibited upon any premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages or malt beverages and wine for consumption on such premises within the incorporated area of the city.
a.
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in connection with the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or malt beverages and wine while such person is exposing any of his or her "specified anatomical areas" as defined in the city ordinance regulating adult businesses, section 18-91
b.
Live entertainment where any person appears in the manner described in subsection (1) of this section or where any person performs, or simulates the performance of, any "specified sexual activity" as defined in the city ordinance regulating adult businesses, section 18-91
c.
The holding, promotion, sponsoring, or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night, event, or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (1) and (2) above.
d.
The operation of any business for which a license is required pursuant to the city ordinance regulating adult businesses, whether or not such business has applied for or received a license pursuant to the city ordinance regulating adult businesses.
(3)
No license shall be issued to any business located within 1,000 feet of any adult business for which there is a license issued by the city or for which a license is required pursuant to the city ordinance regulating adult businesses. Measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects from the premises from which an adult business would be operated to the nearest point on the property line of such other adult business located within the city.
(b)
Exception. Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the premises of any mainstream performance house. For the purposes of this section, "mainstream performance house" shall mean any establishment excluded from the definition of "adult entertainment business" in the city ordinance regulating adult businesses, by section 18-91 thereof.
(c)
Violation. A violation of any of the prohibitions described in subsection (a) above at any establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages or malt beverages and wine shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of such license subject to the procedure set forth in the city's alcohol ordinance, section 6-12
(Ord. No. 2008-1, § 2, 1-22-2008)
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 2008-1, § 2, adopted Jan. 22, 2008, enacted provisions intended for use as § 6-17. To preserve the style of this Code, and at the discretion of the editor, said provisions have been redesignated as § 6-18
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18, adult entertainment establishments, § 18-90 et seq.
Secs. 6-19—6-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 6-41. - Definitions.
The following words where used in this article, unless context requires otherwise, shall be deemed to have the following meanings:
Club means a private organization having at least 25 adult members and organized and operating on a nonprofit basis for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages. Said organization, to qualify as a club hereunder, must have a meeting of its members at least once each quarter and must not operate in an illegal manner or for an illegal purpose.
Container means the can or bottle in which any malt beverage is placed and shall not mean the case or carton in which said can or bottle is packed.
Retail sale means a sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-20)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-42. - Authority to issue licenses.
All applications for malt beverage retail license shall be presented to the mayor and council for approval and, if approved, shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of the required fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-21)
Sec. 6-43. - Retail licensee qualifications.
(a)
The retail licensee selling malt beverages in the city must be a person of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(b)
Licensee shall be of legal age and shall also be a resident of the county or designate a resident of the county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(c)
The licensee shall not have been convicted, within five years of the date of his application, of a felony nor any violation of this state or any other state relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(d)
The licensee shall be responsible for the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(e)
Any misstatement or concealment of facts in the application shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued and shall make the applicant liable to prosecution for perjury under the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-22; Ord. No. 10-2, § 1, 4-13-2010)
Sec. 6-44. - Application for retail license.
Applications for a malt beverage retail license shall be made in person to the mayor and council of the city and shall contain the following information:
(1)
The name, age, and address of such person or persons seeking a retail license;
(2)
The citizenship of all persons named on the application and their place of birth;
(3)
The location and description of the premises or place of business which is to be operated under such license; and
(4)
A statement that the application will comply with all of the terms and conditions of this chapter and any rules and regulations propounded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 3-23)
Sec. 6-45. - Retail licenses issued.
Licenses for the retail sale of malt beverages in the city shall be issued to such persons in such locations and in such manner as may be, from time to time, decided by the mayor and council under the following terms and conditions:
(1)
The retail license fee shall be in an amount determined by the mayor and council for each location selling malt beverages. No portion of said fee shall be refundable should the license be surrendered or revoked prior to its normal expiration date.
(2)
Places where dancing is allowed (except clubs duly licensed) shall not be eligible for a license for the sale of malt beverages.
(3)
Sale of malt beverages shall be on a packaged basis only, and drinking same on the licensed premises shall be prohibited except for cafes, those establishments having a club license, or any establishment licensed pursuant to article IV of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-24)
Sec. 6-46. - Malt beverage tax.
There is hereby levied and imposed, upon all wholesale dealers selling malt beverages within the city, a specific excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12-ounce container or proportion thereof of malt beverages sold by each wholesale dealer within the corporate limits of the city as follows:
EXPAND
7 ounces 2.92 cents/container $0.70/case of 24
8 ounces 3.33 cents/container 0.80/case of 24
12 ounces 5.00 cents/container 1.20/case of 24
14 ounces 5.83 cents/container 1.40/case of 24
16 ounces 6.67 cents/container 1.60/case of 24
32 ounces 13.33 cents/container 1.60/case of 12
½ barrel (15½ gallons) 6.00
1 barrel (31 gallons) 12.00
  The excise tax provided for hereinabove shall be in addition to any license fee, tax, or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-25)
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 58.
Sec. 6-47. - Reports required.
Each wholesale dealer selling malt beverage within the city shall file a report by the tenth day of each month showing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container, constituting a beginning and ending inventory for the month sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made the amount of excise tax due in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-26)
Sec. 6-48. - Compensation for collection prohibited.
No licensed wholesale beer dealer shall accept or take from any municipality or county any fee, discount, rebate, or compensation of any nature for the collection or reporting of the city and/or county beer taxes specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-27)
Sec. 6-49. - Failure to make reports or remittance.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to 20 percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due and a further penalty of ten percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Prior Code, § 3-28)
Secs. 6-50—6-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISTILLED SPIRITS AND WINE

Sec. 6-81. - Definitions.
The following words where used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, shall be deemed to have the following meaning:
Alcohol means the product of distillation of any liquid, whether rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and shall include synthetic ethyl alcohol.
Retailer or retailer distributor means any person, firm, or corporation engaged in selling at retail, any distilled spirits or alcohol, for beverage purposes, in unbroken packages.
Spirituous liquors or distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage containing alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, cordials, or other spirituous liquors by whatever name called, to include fortified wines as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration, but nothing in this article shall prohibit the sale of wines from natural fermentation of fruits, berries, and other products. Hereinafter in this ordinance the word "liquor" will be used to mean spirituous liquors, distilled spirits and alcoholic beverages as described in this section.
Wholesaler or wholesale distributor means any person, firm, or corporation engaged in distribution or selling to retailers of the purpose of resale any of the distilled spirits or alcohol, as defined in this article.
(Prior Code, § 3-35)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-82. - Retail licensee qualifications.
No retail liquor license shall be granted to any person (as defined herein) unless such person is of legal age and has been a resident of said county for a minimum of one year prior to filing an application for such license; same requirements apply to corporations.
(Prior Code, § 3-36)
Sec. 6-83. - Retail license regulations.
(a)
Generally. Only one retail liquor license shall be issued to any person in the city and no person who holds a retail liquor license in any other county or municipality of the state, shall be eligible to receive a retail liquor license. Persons as used in this section shall include all members of such licensee's family, and "family" shall be deemed to include any person related to the holder of such license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as computed according to the civil law.
(b)
City employees ineligible for license. No employee of the city shall be eligible to receive a retail liquor license.
(c)
Scale drawings. Each application for retail liquor license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this chapter with reference to this section.
(d)
Separate licenses required. A separate retail liquor license shall be required for each place of business.
(e)
Building requirements; plan. No retail liquor license shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of said building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner, and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the building inspector. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of said building. Each applicant for a retail liquor license shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(f)
Sale in original packaging; minimum container size. All licensed retailers shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only and shall sell no package containing less than one-half pint.
(g)
Limitation on products or commodities sold. No retailer shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock, at his place of business where liquor is offered for sale, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines, when properly licensed.
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits. No beverages of any kind may be opened, precooled, or consumed in said place of business.
(h)
Sale and delivery at place of business. No retailer shall sell or deliver any liquor to any person except in said retailer's place of business.
(i)
Limitation on number of licenses. There shall be no more than two retail liquor licenses issued within the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-37)
Sec. 6-84. - Notice to minors.
The holder of a license to sell liquor shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: "SALE OF LIQUOR TO MINORS STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Prior Code, § 3-38)
Sec. 6-85. - Inventory of stock other than licensed place of business prohibited.
No licensed retailer shall keep any liquor stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby liquor ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of liquor at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for liquor shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business.
(Prior Code, § 3-39)
Sec. 6-86. - Application for retail liquor license.
Application for a retail liquor license shall be made on forms furnished by the mayor and council as follows:
(1)
For the remainder of the current year applications will be considered anytime.
(2)
A retail liquor license shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before July 15 of the preceding year.
(3)
In addition to the completion and submission of application form as required by the city, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(4)
Before any retail liquor license is granted, applicant must post with the mayor and council, along with his application, a personal performance bond; said bond to be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this chapter. Upon the violation of this ordinance or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the seriousness of the violation as determined by the mayor and council after a hearing is held by the mayor and council after a three-day written notice is given the violator. Said bond is to be payable to the city in the amount of $500.00, said bond to be approved by the mayor and council and shall be executed in a form to be furnished.
(Prior Code, § 3-40)
Sec. 6-87. - Applicant qualifications.
(a)
Character. Any applicant for a retail liquor license must be of good character, and all mangers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or application will not be considered. Corporation applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(b)
Criminal record. No applicant for a license who has a criminal record (except minor traffic offenses) shall be granted a license.
(c)
Extenuating circumstances. The mayor and council, in their discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If in their judgment circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(d)
Presentation of applications. All applications for a retail liquor license shall be presented in person.
(Prior Code, § 3-41)
Sec. 6-88. - Falsifying application for license.
The making of any statement on an application for license to sell liquor which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of said license.
(Prior Code, § 3-42)
Sec. 6-89. - Games of chance; prohibited.
There shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punch boards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by licensee and any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of license.
(Prior Code, § 3-43)
Sec. 6-90. - License fees, tax, etc.
The annual fee for a retail liquor license shall be an amount determined by the mayor and council per annum and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license, said fee to accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check.
(1)
A retailer liquor license for any portion of the current year shall be an amount determined by the mayor and council. Said fee shall accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check. When and if an application is submitted for the current year by an applicant paying an amount determined by the mayor and council for the remainder of the fiscal year, said applicant will be given credit on the following year's retail license fees based and prorated on the number of months the retail liquor license was in use the previous year, using as a basis for computation an amount determined by the mayor and council for each month the retail liquor license was in use. In the event a person does not apply for a new retail liquor license for the following year, or in the event such person is not issued a retail liquor license for the next year, said person will receive no refund for the current year. The license year begins August 1 of each year and ends July 31 of the following year.
(2)
There is hereby levied an annual retail wine license fee of an amount determined by the mayor and council plus an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.80 per wine gallon which shall be paid to the mayor and council on all liquors sold, displayed or stored in said city. Said tax shall be paid to the mayor and council by the wholesale distributor on all liquors sold to retailers in the city as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering liquor to any retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following. The $0.80 per wine gallon shall be prorated down on half pints, pints, fifths, half gallons, etc., and wine gallons so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.80 per wine gallon. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship, or deliver in any manner any liquor to a retailer without having collected said tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display, or sell any liquor on which such tax has not been paid. Each wholesaler shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected as reimbursement for collection of said tax.
(3)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the mayor and council a summary of all purchase invoices for liquor sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchases. Said invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-44)
Sec. 6-91. - Financial responsibility of applicant.
Any applicant for a retail liquor license must show, to the satisfaction of the mayor and council, financial responsibility. Financial statements must be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the mayor and council. Forms of financial statements are to be furnished by the mayor and council along with or included in application forms for license.
(Prior Code, § 3-45)
Secs. 6-92—6-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SALES OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS BY THE DRINK

FOOTNOTE(S):
(12) Editor's note— Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, adopted Jan. 10, 2006, amended Art. IV in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. IV, §§ 6-121—6-136, pertained to sales of distilled spirits by the drink, and derived from the prior Code, §§ 3-50—3-65.
Sec. 6-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Eating establishment means an establishment which is licensed to serve prepared food with a full service kitchen (a full service kitchen will consist of a four-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the county health department and the city fire department) prepared to serve food every hour they are open and where these establishments are permitted to seat fifty (50) or more persons pursuant to the applicable building, fire and safety codes in effect for the City of Unadilla and which derive at least sixty (60) percent of its total annual gross revenue from the sale of products other than alcoholic beverages.
Intoxicating liquor means any distilled or fermented liquid containing consumable alcohol, mixed with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, vodka, cordials, or other spirituous liquors by whatever name called, and including fortified wines as defined by the Federal Alcohol Administration and shall include malt liquors, beer and ale.
License means the permit granted to licensee for the operation of an establishment for the sale of intoxicating liquors by the drink.
Licensee means any person engaged in selling, at retail or wholesale, any intoxicating liquors by the drink.
Licensor means the mayor and council of the city or other authority having control of the fiscal affairs of the city.
Person as used in this article shall include the licensee, his father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, or the spouse of any such person or relation.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-122. - Qualifications for liquor by the drink license.
No license shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age, is a legal resident of the county for one-year period prior to filing an application for such license and has a license for an eating establishment as defined in section 6-121 above.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-123. - License not transferable or assignable; manager change.
No city intoxicating liquor by the drink license shall be transferable or assignable; and in the event that a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender such license to the city clerk. However, if the license was issued in the name of a manager of a licensed business and said manager is replaced by said business, the mayor, after investigation of the new manager has been made by the police department, shall have the right to transfer the license to the new manager upon written application from the new manager and provided that the new manager otherwise meets all requirements to be a licensee. If a transfer of the license is allowed, the licensee shall pay a transfer fee of $25.00.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-124. - Business location.
No license shall be granted to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the sale of intoxicating liquors by the drink in any area prohibited by law or by valid zoning ordinance; nor shall any license be granted to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the sale of intoxicating liquors by the drink in connection with the sale of drugs or pharmaceutical supplies.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-125. - License not to be issued to persons convicted of a felony, etc.
(a)
When contrary to the public interest and welfare no license to sell intoxicating liquors by the drink of any kind shall be issued by the city to:
(1)
Any person as determined by the city, by reason of such person's business experience, financial standing, trade associations, personal associations, record of arrests, or reputation in any community in which he has resided, who is not likely to maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state, or local laws.
(2)
Any person who has been convicted under any federal, state, or local law of any felony involving moral turpitude.
(3)
Any person who has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any felony, not involved in moral turpitude, within ten years next preceding the filing of application for such license.
(4)
Any person convicted under any federal, state, or local law of a misdemeanor, particularly, but not limited to, those involving intoxicating liquors by the drink, gambling, or tax law violations, if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant will not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal, state or local laws.
(b)
No license shall be granted to any person for the operation of an establishment involving the sale of intoxicating liquors by the drink who retains an employee, in the operation of such establishment, who has been convicted of a felony.
(c)
A consent statement shall be signed by the applicant providing that all necessary investigation reports on the applicant and any employees in the applicant's establishment including, but not limited to, credit reports and reports from law enforcement agencies, may be obtained. Any information in such reports may be furnished to the licensor; and the applicant will be responsible for the cost thereof. If so requested, applicant shall also obtain such consent forms from each employee, who will be employed in applicant's establishment. Licensor may, at its option, require fingerprinting and/or photographs of applicant and applicant's employees for the purpose of conducting its investigation.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-126. - Extenuating circumstances involving applicant.
In determining the question of the granting or refusal of the license provided for hereunder, licensor shall consider: the location of the establishment; the uses of the surrounding property; the integrity of the applicant and his employees; the approval, or disapproval, of the surrounding neighbors and/or businesses; the question of whether or not applicant holds a license for the sale of intoxicating liquors by the package; and other relevant factors deemed by licensor to have a reasonable relationship to the desirability of the issuance of a license to applicant for the establishment provided for in this article.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-127. - Annual license fees; excise tax.
(a)
Annual license fee. The annual license fee for the license provided for in this article shall be an amount determined by the mayor and council. Such licenses shall run for a calendar year and be renewed annually, and the fee shall be paid between December 1 and December 15 of each year, for the succeeding year, or paid with the application. Such license fees shall not be prorated if granted after January 1 of any year.
(b)
Excise tax. In addition to the annual retail license fee required, an excise tax computed at the rate of three percent of the charge to the public for the beverages shall be paid to the city.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
Sec. 6-128. - Copy of regulations to be kept on premises.
All holders of a license for the sale of distilled spirits or intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes by the drink shall keep a copy of these regulations on his or her premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to the terms hereof, and each licensee or his agents selling drinks shall at all times be familiar with the terms hereof.
(Ord. No. 2006-1, § 4, 1-10-2006)
