ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

FOOTNOTE(S):
(5) Editor's note— The city compiles and publishes separately additional administrative regulations in its manual of personnel policies and procedures. In addition, sundry ordinances and resolutions have been adopted to provide for employee benefits through the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, a retirement program administered pursuant to section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Georgia Municipal Association Deferred Compensation Program. Official copies of all documentation are on file in the office of the city clerk.
(5) Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-11(4); chief of police—Appointment; duties, § 38-1.
(5) State Law reference— Expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21(a); personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers for official acts, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2).; authority to establish retirement systems for municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(4); authority to provide insurance, retirement and pension benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; county manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22; Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; Public Employee Hazardous Chemical Protection and Right to Know Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 45-22-1 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.; social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.; Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; reserved; authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14).
Sec. 2-81. - Duties of city clerk.
The city clerk under the direction of the mayor and the assistant to the mayor will supervise the operation of the city office and in his capacity as municipal clerk have the following duties:
(1)
Attend all meetings of the mayor and council and keep correct and full minutes of mayor and council proceedings together with all ordinances or resolutions passed by the mayor and council.
(2)
Insert all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the mayor and council to make the same a part of the city's Code of Ordinances when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form.
(3)
Extract from said Code of Ordinances all provisions which, from time to time, may be repealed by the mayor and council.
(4)
Receive all applications or petitions made to the city and place them before the mayor and council at the meeting of the mayor and council next succeeding the receipt thereof.
(5)
Carefully preserve the records and documents belonging to the city and maintain a proper index of all such records and documents so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
(6)
Issue all licenses and permits authorized by the mayor and council and keep an accurate record thereof.
(7)
Maintain a proper registration book of all persons qualified to vote in any municipal election of the city.
(8)
Receive signed and dated receipts of purchases for items of $50.00 or less and approve payment for the same. All purchase requests in excess of $50.00 shall be signed and dated by the department head prior to being approved by the mayor and council.
(9)
Keep a current book of accounts showing all money received on behalf of the city and the source and disposition thereof and furnish the council with quarterly statements detailing all receipts and payments of funds at the end of each quarter of the fiscal year.
(10)
Establish and maintain accurate personnel records of all municipal employees detailing accumulation and use of leave time, commendations, or disciplinary actions received.
(11)
Perform all other duties relative to maintaining the city office or as from time to time requested by the mayor and council.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
Sec. 2-82. - Duties of department heads.
Each department head shall perform all duties required of his office by state and federal laws, the city Charter, and this Code, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may be required by the mayor and council and shall also:
(1)
Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and inaugurate, with the approval of the mayor and council, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the city and general public.
(2)
Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of departmental activities and to form a basis for periodic reports as may be requested by the mayor and council.
(3)
Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and equipment used in their respective departments.
(4)
Establish and maintain accurate personnel records for employees under his general supervision and forward notice of employees taking leave time to the city clerk two days prior to each pay period.
(5)
Be immediately responsible to the mayor and council for the effective administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
Sec. 2-83. - Employment limitation.
No employee of the city shall serve as mayor or council member unless he shall first have resigned from such position with the city, and no member of the mayor and council shall be employed by said city while acting in their official capacity as mayor or council member.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)
Secs. 2-84—2-110. - Reserved.
