ARTICLE 9. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS

Sec. 1-89. - Creation.
There is hereby created in each county of this state having a population of not less than 183,000 and not more than 216,000 according to the United States Decennial Census of 1990, or any such future census, a board of elections which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections and the registration of electors in such counties.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 1; Ga. Laws 1982, p. 4321; Ga. Laws 1992, p. 1224, § 1)
Sec. 1-90. - Membership—Composition; election.
The board of elections in such counties shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county, and who shall be selected in the following manner:
(a)
Two members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidates, at the last preceding general election, received the largest number of votes in this state for members of the general assembly, and two members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidates at such election received the next largest number of such votes. The initial appointments of such members shall be made by each party for two and four years, respectively. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of four years and until their successors are duly appointed.
(b)
The fifth member shall be appointed from a list of three names submitted by the members of the general assembly representing such counties to the governing authority of each such county for a term of office of four years and until his successor is duly appointed. The member appointed by the governing authority shall be the chairman of the board of elections.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 2)
Sec. 1-91. - Same—Qualifications.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 3)
Sec. 1-92. - Same—Appointment.
The appointment of each member shall be made by the respective appointing authority filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court, no later than 30 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such member to the secretary of state and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members and chairman, within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 4)
Sec. 1-93. - Same—Resignation; removal.
Each member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself for one term and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the respective appointing or electing authority and to the clerk of the superior court, and shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 5)
Sec. 1-94. - Same—Oath.
The first members of the board under this act shall take office on April 1, 1973. Before entering upon his duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 5)
Sec. 1-95. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of his term, by removal, death or resignation, or otherwise, the respective appointing authority shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and record and certify such appointments, in the same manner as the regular appointment members.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 6)
Sec. 1-96. - Powers and duties—Generally.
Each board of elections shall:
(a)
With regard to the preparation for conduct and administration of primaries and elections, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the ordinary pursuant to title 21 of the Code of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, and/or any other provision of law.
(b)
With regard to the registration of electors, succeed to and exercise all of the powers, duties and responsibilities granted to and incumbent upon the board of registrars in such counties pursuant to title 21 of the Code of Georgia, as now or hereafter amended, or any other provision of law.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 8)
Sec. 1-97. - Employees.
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment and training of poll workers in elections; and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided the board by the county executive committee of each political party. The board shall be authorized to employ not less than two full-time employees and such other employees as the governing authority shall approve. There shall also be authorized a full-time executive director whose initial appointment shall be made by the governing authority. Subsequent appointment of the executive director shall be made by the board of elections.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 9)
Sec. 1-98. - Ordinary and board of registrars relieved from powers and duties.
Upon the effective date of this act, the ordinary and the board of registrars in such counties shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections succeeds by the provisions of this act and they shall deliver thereafter to the chairman of the board, upon his written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties. Also, at such time, the board of registrars in such counties shall be abolished.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 10)
Sec. 1-99. - Chairman.
The chairman of the board of elections shall be the chief executive officer of the board of elections and shall generally supervise, direct and control the administration of the affairs of the board of elections pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board of elections. The board of elections shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 11)
Sec. 1-100. - Compensation.
The compensation of the executive director, clerical assistants and other employees of the board shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority. The members of the board of elections, not including the chairman, shall receive for each day of service the sum of $10.00. The chairman shall receive the sum of $20.00 for each day of service for the board. No member of the board shall receive pay for more than 60 days' service every two years, such period of time to be calculated from April 1, 1973, and for every two-year period thereafter. Such compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 12)
Sec. 1-101. - Offices.
The governing authority of the county shall provide the board with proper and suitable offices.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 13)
Sec. 1-102. - Authority to contract.
(a)
The board of elections shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within the county for the holding of any primary or election by the board to be conducted within the municipality.
(b)
In all counties of this state having a population of not less than 183,000 and not more than 216,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, municipal elections in any municipality having a population in excess of 40,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1980 or any future such census and lying wholly within such counties shall be conducted by the county board of elections. With reference to any such election, such municipality shall pay the county all costs incurred in conducting such elections.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 4; Ga. Laws 1983, p. 402, § 1)
Sec. 1-103. - Definitions.
The words election, elector, political party, primary, public office, special election, and special primary, shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by code section 21-2-2 of the Code of Georgia, as amended, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this act.
(Ga. Laws 1973, p. 2283, § 15)
