ARTICLE 4. - COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES—GENERALLY

Sec. 1-15. - Election; term; compensation.
(a)
The clerk of the superior court, judge of the probate court, sheriff, tax receiver, tax collector, and tax commissioner, where such office has replaced the tax receiver and tax collector, shall be elected by the qualified voters of their respective counties for terms of four years and shall have such qualifications, powers and duties as provided by general law.
(b)
County officers listed in subsection (a) of this section may be on a fee basis, salary basis, or fee basis supplemented by salary, in such manner as may be directed by law. Minimum compensation for said county officers may be established by the general assembly by general law. Such minimum compensation may be supplemented by local law or, if such authority is delegated by local law, by action of the county governing authority.
Note— (1) Effective January 1, 2006, the Coroner shall receive an annual salary of $70,304.00.
Note— (2) Beginning May 1, 2006 through April 30, 2007, the following officials of Richmond County, Georgia, shall receive an annual salary, payable from the funds of Richmond County, Georgia, as follows:
EXPAND
(A) Clerk of superior court and state court $90,000.00
(B) Solicitor of the State Court  90,000.00
(C) District Attorney  35,000.00
(D) Judge of the Superior Court  34,000.00
(E) Chief Judge of the Superior Court  36,000.00
(F) Sheriff 105,000.00
  Note— (3) Beginning May 1, 2007, and thereafter, the following officials of Richmond County, Georgia, shall receive an annual salary, payable from the funds of Richmond County, Georgia, as follows:
EXPAND
(A) Clerk of Superior Court and State Court $97,000.00
(B) Solicitor of the State Court  97,000.00
(C) District Attorney  38,000.00
(D) Judge of the Superior Court  40,000.00
(E) Chief Judge of the Superior Court  42,000.00
(F) Sheriff 110,000.00
  Note— (4) The compensation provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
(c)
The general assembly may consolidate the offices of tax receiver and tax collector into the office of tax commissioner.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 1, ¶ 3).
Sec. 1-16. - Civil service systems.
The general assembly may by general law authorize the establishment by county governing authorities of civil service systems covering county employees or covering county employees and employees of the elected county officers.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 1, ¶ 4).
Sec. 1-17. - Reserved.
Sec. 1-18. - Bribery.
(a)
A person commits bribery when:
(1)
He or she gives or offers to give to any person acting for or on behalf of the state or any political subdivision thereof, or of any agency of either, any benefit, reward or consideration to which he or she is not entitled with the purpose of influencing him or her in the performance of any act related to the functions of his or her office or employment; or
(2)
A public official, elected or appointed, or an employee of this state or any agency, authority, or entity of the state, or any county or municipality or any agency, authority, or entity thereof, directly or indirectly solicits, receives, accepts, or agrees to receive a thing of value by inducing the reasonable belief that the giving of the thing will influence his or her performance or failure to perform any official action. A thing of value shall not include:
a.
Food or beverage consumed at a single meal or event;
b.
Legitimate salary, benefits, fees, commissions, or expenses associated with a recipient's nonpublic business, employment, trade, or profession;
c.
An award, plaque, certificate, memento, or similar item given in recognition of the recipient's civic, charitable, political, professional, or public service;
d.
Food, beverages, and registration at group events to which all members of an agency, as defined in paragraph (1) subsection (a) of Code Section 21-5-30.2, are invited. An agency shall include the Georgia House of Representatives, the Georgia Senate, committees and subcommittees of such bodies, and the governing body of each political subdivision of this state;
e.
Actual and reasonable expenses for food, beverages, travel lodging, and registration for a meeting which are provided to permit participation or speaking at the meeting;
f.
A commercially reasonable loan made in the ordinary course of business;
g.
Any gift with value less than $100.00;
h.
Promotional items generally distributed to the general public or to public officers;
i.
A gift from a member of the public officer's immediate family; or
j.
Food, beverage, or expenses afforded public officers, members of their immediate families, or others that are associated with normal and customary business or social functions or activities; provided, however, that receiving, accepting, or agreeing to receive anything not enumerated in subparagraphs (a) through (j) of this paragraph shall not create the presumption that the offense of bribery has been committed.
(b)
A person convicted of the offense of bribery shall be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000.00 or by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than 20 years, or both. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-2.)
Sec. 1-19. - Violation of oath by public officer.
Any officer who willfully and intentionally violates the terms of his oath as prescribed by law shall, upon conviction thereof be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-1.)
Sec. 1-20. - Receiving funds for enforcement of penal laws or regulations.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, any officer or employee of the state or any agency thereof who receives from any private person, firm or corporation funds or other things of value to be used in the enforcement of the penal laws or regulations of the state is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, any officer or employee of a political subdivision who receives from any private person, firm, or corporation funds or other things of value to be used in the enforcement of the penal laws or regulations of the political subdivision of which he is an officer or employee is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c)
Nothing contained within this Code section shall be deemed nor construed so as to prohibit any law enforcement officer of the state or any political subdivision thereof:
(1)
From being employed by private persons, firms or corporations during his off-duty hours when such employment is approved in writing by the chief or head, or his duly designated agent, of the law enforcement agency by which such law enforcement officer is employed; or
(2)
From soliciting for or accepting contributions of equipment or of funds to be used solely for the purchase of equipment to be used in the enforcement of the penal laws or regulations of this state or any political subdivision thereof when such acceptance is approved in writing by the chief or head, or his duly designated agent, of the law enforcement agency by which such law enforcement officer is employed. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-3.)
Sec. 1-21. - Improperly influencing legislative action.
Any officer or employee of the state or any agency thereof who asks for or receives anything of value to which he is not entitled in return for an agreement to procure or attempt to procure the passage or defeat the passage of any legislation by the General Assembly, or procure or attempt to procure the approval or disapproval of the same by the Governor shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-4(a).)
Sec. 1-22. - Officer or employee improperly influencing another officer or employee.
Any officer or employee of a political subdivision who asks for or receives anything of value to which he is not entitled in return for an agreement to procure the passage or defeat the passage of any legislation by the legislative body of the political subdivision of which he is an officer of employee shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-4(b).)
Sec. 1-23. - Officer or employee selling to political subdivision.
(a)
Any employee, appointive officer or elective officer of a political subdivision (hereafter employing political subdivision), or agency thereof who, for himself or in behalf of any business entity, sells any real or personal property to:
(1)
The employing political subdivision;
(2)
An agency of the employing political subdivision;
(3)
A political subdivision for which local taxes for education are levied by the employing political subdivision;
(4)
A political subdivision which levies local taxes for education for the employing political subdivision;
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.
(b)
Subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to:
(1)
Sales of personal property of less than $200.00 per calendar quarter;
(2)
Sales of personal property made pursuant to sealed competitive bids made by the employee, appointive officer or elective officer, either for himself or herself or on behalf of any business entity; or
(3)
Sales of real property in which a disclosure has been made:
a.
To the judge of the probate court of the county in which the purchasing political subdivision is wholly included, or if not wholly included in any one county, to the judge of the probate court of any county in which the purchasing political subdivision is partially included and which shall have been designated by the purchasing political subdivision to receive such disclosures, provided that if the sale is made by the judge of the probate court, a copy of such disclosure shall also be filed with any superior court judge of the superior court of the county;
b.
At least 15 days prior to the date the contract or agreement for such sale will become final and binding on the parties thereto;
c.
Which shows that an employee, appointive officer or elective officer of an employing political subdivision or agency thereof has a personal interest in such sale, which interest includes without being limited to any commission, fee, profit or similar benefit and which gives the name of such person, his or her position in the political subdivision or agency, the purchase price, and the location of the property.
Sec. 1-24. - Conspiracy to defraud state or political subdivision.
(a)
A person commits the offense of conspiracy to defraud the state when he conspires or agrees with another to commit theft of any property which belongs to the state or to any agency thereof or which is under the control or possession of a state officer or employee in his official capacity. The crime shall be complete when the conspiracy or agreement is effected and an overt act in furtherance thereof has been committed, regardless of whether the theft is consummated. A person convicted of conspiracy to defraud the state shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.
(b)
A person commits the offense of conspiracy to defraud a political subdivision when he conspires or agrees with another to commit theft of any property which belongs to a political subdivision or to any agency thereof or which is under the control or possession of an officer or employee of a political subdivision in his official capacity. The crime shall be complete when the conspiracy or agreement is effected and an overt act in furtherance thereof has been committed, regardless of whether the theft is consummated. A person convicted of the offense of conspiracy to defraud a political subdivision shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-21.)
Sec. 1-25. - Conspiracy in restraint of free and open competition.
(a)
A person who enters into a contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or in restraint of free and open competition in any transaction with the state or any agency thereof, whether the transaction is for goods, materials, or services, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than five years. The crime of conspiracy in restraint of free and open competition in transactions with the state shall be complete when the contract, combination, or conspiracy is effected and an overt act in furtherance thereof has been committed.
(b)
A person who enters into a contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or in restraint of free and open competition in any transaction with a political subdivision or any agency thereof, whether the transaction is for goods, materials, or services, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one not more than five years. The crime of conspiracy in restraint of free and open competition in transactions with political subdivisions shall be complete when the contract, combination, or conspiracy is effected and an overt act in furtherance thereof has been committed.
(c)
A person who is convicted of or who pleads guilty to a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section as a result of any contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or in restraint of free and open competition in any transaction which was entered into or carried out, in whole or in part on or after July 1, 1985, shall be ineligible to submit a bid on, enter into, or participate in any contract with any department, agency, branch, board, or authority of the state or any county, municipality, board of education, or other political subdivision thereof for a period of five years following the date of the conviction or entry of the plea. (O.C.G.A. § 16-10-22.)
Sec. 1-26. - Malpractice in office.
Any elected county officer, including the judge of the probate court, clerk of the superior court, tax receiver, tax collector, and tax commissioner, where the office has replaced the tax receiver and tax collector, any member of any Board of Commissioners, or any Mayor or member of any municipal governing authority, presently or formerly holding such office, who shall be charged with malpractice, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office; or with using oppression or tyrannical partiality in the administration or under the color of his office; or, when required by law, with willfully refusing or failing to preside in or hold his court at the regular terms thereof, or when it is his duty under the law to do so; or with using any other deliberate or illegal means to delay or avoid the due course or proceeding of law; or with any other illegal conduct in the performance or administration of the office which is unbecoming the character of a public officer; or who shall willfully and knowingly demand more cost than he is entitled to by law in the administration and under color of his office my [may] be indicted. The indictment shall specially set forth the merits of the complaint against the accused public officer. A copy of the indictment shall be served on the accused public officer at least 15 days before it is presented to the grand jury. The accused shall have the right to appear before the grand jury to make such sworn statement as he shall desire at the conclusion to the presentation of the state's evidence. The accused shall not be subject to examination, either direct or cross, and shall not have the right individually or through his counsel to examine the state's witnesses. The accused and his counsel shall have the right to be present during the presentation of all evidence and alleged statements of the accused on the proposed indictment, presentment, or accusation, after which he and his counsel shall retire instanter from the grand jury room to permit the grand jury to deliberate upon the indictment. If a true bill is returned by the grand jury, the indictment shall, as in other cases, be published in open court and shall be placed on the superior court criminal docket of cases to be tried by a petit jury. If the accused is convicted, he shall be punished by a fine or by imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of the court; and if still in office, he shall be removed from office. (O.C.G.A. § 45-11-4.)
