ARTICLE 1. - HOME RULE

Sec. 1-1. - Scope of County legislative power.
(a)
The governing authority of each County shall have legislative power to adopt clearly reasonable ordinances, resolutions or regulations relating to its property, affairs and local government for which no provision has been made by general law and which is not inconsistent with this constitution, or any local law applicable thereto. Any such local law shall remain in force and effect until amended or repealed as provided in subparagraph (b). This, however, shall not restrict the authority of the general assembly by general law to further define this power or to broaden, limit or otherwise regulate the exercise thereof. The general assembly shall not pass any local law to repeal, modify or supersede any action taken by a county governing authority under this section except as authorized under subparagraph (e) hereof.
(b)
Except as provided in subparagraph (c), a county may, as an incident of its home rule power, amend or repeal the local acts applicable to its governing authority by following either of the procedures hereinafter set forth:
(1)
Such local acts may be amended or repealed by a resolution or ordinance duly adopted at two regular consecutive meetings of the county governing authority not less than seven nor more than 60 days apart. A notice containing a synopsis of the proposed amendment or repeal shall be published in the official county organ once a week for three weeks within a period of 60 days immediately preceding its final adoption. Such notice shall state that a copy of the proposed amendment or repeal is on file in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The clerk of the superior court shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment or repeal. No amendment or repeal hereunder shall be valid to change or repeal an amendment adopted pursuant to a referendum as provided in (2) of this subparagraph or to change or repeal a local act of the general assembly ratified in a referendum by the electors of such county unless at least 12 months have elapsed after such referendum. No amendment hereunder shall be valid if inconsistent with any provision of this constitution or if provision has been made therefor by general law.
(2)
Amendments to or repeals of such local acts or ordinances, resolutions or regulations adopted pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof may be initiated by a petition filed with the judge of the probate-court of the county containing, in cases of counties with a population of 5,000 or less, the signatures of at least 25 percent of the electors registered to vote in the last general election; in cases of counties with a population of more than 5,000 but not more than 50,000 at least 20 percent of the electors registered to vote in the last general election; and, in cases of a county with a population of more than 50,000, at least 10 percent of the electors registered to vote in the last general election, which petition shall specifically set forth the exact language of the proposed amendment or repeal. The judge of the probate court shall determine the validity of such petition within 60 days of its being filed with the judge of the probate court. In the event the judge of the probate court determines that such petition is valid, it shall be his duty to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting such amendment or repeal to the registered electors of the county for their approval or rejection. Such call shall be issued not less than 10 nor more than 60 days after the date of the filing of the petition. He shall set the date of such election for a day not less than 60 nor more than 90 days after the date of such filing. The judge of the probate court shall cause a notice of the date of said election to be published in the official organ of the county once a week for three weeks immediately preceding such date. Said notice shall also contain a synopsis of the proposed amendment or repeal and shall state that a copy thereof is on file in the office of the judge of the probate court of the county for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The judge of the probate court shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment or repeal. If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the amendment or repeal, it shall become of full force and effect; otherwise it shall be void and of no force and effect. The expense of such election shall be borne by the county, and it shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to hold and conduct such election. Such election shall be held under the same laws and rules and regulations as govern special elections, except as otherwise provided herein. It shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election. It shall be his further duty to certify result thereof to the secretary of state in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph (g) of this paragraph. A referendum on any such amendment or repeal shall not be held more often than once each year. No amendment hereunder shall be valid if inconsistent with any provision of this constitution or if provision has been made therefor by general law.
In the event that the judge of the probate court determines that such petition was not valid, he shall cause to be published in explicit detail the reasons why such petition is not valid; provided, however, that in any proceeding in which the validity of the petition is at issue, the tribunal considering such issue shall not be limited by the reasons assigned. Such publication shall be in the official organ of the county in the week immediately following the date on which such petition is declared to be not valid.
(c)
The power granted to counties in subparagraphs (a) and (b) above shall not be construed to extend to the following matters or any other matters which the general assembly by general law has preempted or may hereafter preempt; but such matters shall be the subject of general law or the subject of local acts of the general assembly to the extent that the enactment of such local acts is otherwise permitted under this constitution:
(1)
Action affecting any elective county office, the salaries thereof, or the personnel thereof, except the personnel subject to the jurisdiction of the county governing authority.
(2)
Action affecting the composition, form, procedure for election or appointment, compensation and expenses and allowances in the nature of compensation, of the county governing authority.
(3)
Action defining any criminal offense or providing for criminal punishment.
(4)
Action adopting any form of taxation beyond that authorized by law or by this constitution.
(5)
Action expending the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission beyond that authorized by local or general law or by this constitution.
(6)
Action affecting the exercise of the power of eminent domain.
(7)
Action affecting any court or the personnel thereof.
(8)
Action affecting any public school system.
(d)
The power granted in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall not include the power to take any action affecting the private or civil law governing private or civil relationships, except as is incident to the exercise of an independent governmental power.
(e)
Nothing in subparagraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) shall affect the provisions of subparagraph (f) of this paragraph [section 1-1-2 of this chapter].
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 1).
Sec. 1-2. - Salary of county employees; how fixed.
The governing authority of each county is authorized to fix the salary, compensation and expenses of those employed by such governing authority and to establish and maintain retirement or pension systems, insurance, workers' compensation and hospitalization benefits for said employees.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 1(f)).
Sec. 1-3. - Filing and publication of amendment or revision of local act.
No amendment or revision of any local act made pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this section [section 1-1-1(b)] shall become effective until a copy of such amendment or revision, a copy of the required notice of publication, and an affidavit of a duly authorized representative of the newspaper in which such notice was published to the effect that said notice has been published as provided in said subparagraph, has been filed with the secretary of state. The secretary of state shall provide for the publication and distribution of all such amendments and revisions at least annually.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 1(g)).
Sec. 1-4. - Supplementary powers.
(a)
In addition to and supplementary of all powers possessed by or conferred upon any county, municipality or any combination thereof, any county, municipality or any combination thereof may exercise the following powers and provide the following services:
(1)
Police and fire protection.
(2)
Garbage and solid waste collection and disposal.
(3)
Public health facilities and services, including hospitals, ambulance and emergency rescue services, and animal control.
(4)
Street and road construction and maintenance, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights, and devices to control the flow of traffic on streets and roads constructed by counties and municipalities, or any combination thereof.
(5)
Parks, recreational areas, programs and facilities.
(6)
Stormwater and sewage collection and disposal systems.
(7)
Development, storage, treatment, purification and distribution of water.
(8)
Public housing.
(9)
Public transportation.
(10)
Libraries, archives, and arts and sciences programs and facilities.
(11)
Terminal and dock facilities and parking facilities.
(12)
Codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes.
(13)
Air quality control.
(14)
The power to maintain and modify heretofore existing retirement or pension systems, including such systems heretofore created by general laws of local application by population classification, and to continue in effect or modify other benefits heretofore provided as a part of or in addition to such retirement or pension systems and the power to create and maintain retirement or pension systems for any elected or appointed public officers and employees whose compensation is paid in whole or in part from county or municipal funds and for the beneficiaries of such officers and employees.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided by law:
(1)
No county may exercise any of the powers listed in subsection (a) of this section or provide any service listed therein inside the boundaries of any municipality or any other county except by contract with the municipality or county affected; and
(2)
No municipality may exercise any of the powers listed in subsection (a) of this section or provide any service listed therein outside its own boundaries except by contract with the county or municipality affected.
(c)
Nothing contained within this section shall operate to prohibit the general assembly from enacting general laws relative to the subject matters listed in subsection (a) of this section or to prohibit the general assembly by general law from regulating, restricting or limiting the exercise of the powers listed therein; but it may not withdraw any such powers.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this section, the general assembly shall act upon the subject matters listed in subsection (a) of this section only by general law.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 3).
Sec. 1-5. - Planning and zoning.
The governing authority of each county and of each municipality may adopt plans and may exercise the power of zoning. This authorization shall not prohibit the general assembly from enacting general laws establishing procedures for the exercise of such power.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 4).
Sec. 1-6. - Eminent domain.
The governing authority of each county and of each municipality may exercise the power of eminent domain for any public purpose.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 5).
Sec. 1-7. - Special districts.
As hereinafter provided in this section, special districts may be created for the provision of local government services within such districts; and fees, assessments and taxes may be levied and collected within such districts to pay, wholly or partially, the cost of providing such services therein and to construct and maintain facilities therefor. Such special districts may be created, and fees, assessments or taxes may be levied and collected therein by any one or more of the following methods:
(a)
By general law which directly creates the districts.
(b)
By general law which requires the creation of districts under conditions specified by such general law.
(c)
By municipal or county ordinance or resolution, except that no such ordinance or resolution may supersede a law enacted by the general assembly pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 6).
Sec. 1-8. - Community redevelopment.
(a)
The general assembly may authorize any county, municipality or housing authority to undertake and carry out community redevelopment, which may include the sale or other disposition of property acquired by eminent domain to private enterprise for private uses.
(b)
In addition to the authority granted by subsection (a) of this section, the general assembly is authorized to grant to counties or municipalities for redevelopment purposes and in connection with redevelopment programs, as such purposes and programs are defined by general law, the power to issue tax allocation bonds, as defined by such law, and the power to incur other obligations, without either such bonds or obligations constituting debt within the meaning of section V of this article (see article I-A of this chapter], and the power to enter into contracts for any period not exceeding 30 years with private persons, firms, corporations, and business entities. Notwithstanding the grant of these powers pursuant to general law, no county or municipality may exercise these powers unless so authorized by local law and unless such powers are exercised in conformity with those terms and conditions for such exercise as established by that local law. The provisions of any such local law shall conform to those requirements established by general law regarding such powers. No such local law, or any amendment thereto, shall become effective unless approved in a referendum by a majority of the qualified voters of the county or municipality directly affected by that local law.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 7).
Sec. 1-9. - Limitation on the taxing power and contributions of counties, municipalities and political subdivisions.
The general assembly shall not authorize any county, municipality or other political subdivision of this state, through taxation, contribution or otherwise, to appropriate money for or to lend its credit to any person or to any nonpublic corporation or association except for purely charitable purposes.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 8).
Sec. 1-10. - Immunity of counties, municipalities and school districts.
The general assembly may waive the immunity of counties, municipalities and school districts by law.
(1983 Ga. Constitution, Article 9, § 2, ¶ 9).
