Chapter 3 - SUBDIVISION OF LAND
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-3-1. - Incorporation of subdivision regulations.
The Land Subdivision regulations for the former City of Augusta and former unincorporated Areas of Richmond County, Georgia, as adopted on November 1, 1971, and subsequently revised, consisting of all articles inclusive of the Subdivisions Regulations, are included as an Appendix to the AUGUSTA, GA CODE and are hereby incorporated in this section as if set out in full herein. Said Appendix (the Subdivisions Regulations) is maintained by the Planning & Development Department and filed in the Office of the Clerk of Commission.
( Ord. No. 7373 , exh. B, 12-5-2012)
ARTICLE 2. - PLATS

Sec. 8-3-2. - Prerequisites to approval of final plat; completion of improvements.
Prior to approval of a final subdivision plat by the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, the subdivider shall complete all improvements required by the Subdivision Regulations, as amended, to the Commission. All improvements shall be completed in a manner satisfactory to the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission and the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer. Final plat approval shall not be granted until the deed of dedication for such improvements has been submitted to the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer.
Sec. 8-3-3. - Guarantee in lieu of completion.
In lieu of requiring completion of all improvements prior to granting final plat approval, the Augusta-Richmond County Commission may, at its discretion, enter into a contract with the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall guarantee the completion of all required improvements in a manner satisfactory to the Planning Commission and the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer. To secure this contract, the subdivider shall obtain a security bond from a security company authorized to conduct business in the State or a letter from a chartered state or national bank or savings and loan institution with the State, confirming the benefit of Augusta-Richmond County, or a letter of credit from a chartered state or national bank or savings and loan institution within the State. If a bond is provided, it shall be payable to the Augusta-Richmond County Commission and shall be in an amount sufficient to cover the entire cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer, of installing all required improvements. The duration of the bond, escrow account, or letter of credit shall be as specified in Section 8-3-4.
Sec. 8-3-4. - Time limit.
Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the subdivider and the Augusta-Richmond County Commission shall agree upon a deadline for the completion of all required improvements, such deadline not to exceed one (1) year from the date of final plat approval. The Commission may extend that deadline for one (1) additional year where the subdivider can present substantial reason for doing so.
Sec. 8-3-5. - Inspection, certification and acceptance of improvements.
The Augusta-Richmond County Engineer shall regularly inspect for defects in the construction of required improvements. Upon completion of these improvements, the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer shall file with the Augusta-Richmond County Commission a statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed in accordance with applicable regulations or listing the defects in those improvements. Upon completion of the improvements, the subdivider shall file with the Commission a statement stipulating the following:
(a)
That all required improvements are complete;
(b)
That these improvements are in compliance with the minimum standards specified;
(c)
That the subdivider knows of no defects from any cause, in those improvements; and
(d)
That these improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or lien.
The subdivider shall also file with the Augusta-Richmond County Commission an agreement dedicating such improvements to Augusta-Richmond County. If the Augusta-Richmond County Engineer has certified that the required improvements are complete and free of defects, then upon receipt of the other statements and agreements detailed above, the Commission shall accept dedication of those improvements.
Sec. 8-3-6. - Release.
Upon acceptance, in accordance with Section 8-3-5, of the dedication of the required improvements, the Augusta-Richmond County Commission shall authorize the release of any improvement guarantees and approval of the final plat.
Sec. 8-3-7. - Forfeiture.
If any portion of the required improvements shall fail to be accepted for dedication in accordance with Section 8-3-5 within the allocated time limit, either for reason of incompletion or for reason of substandard construction, then the Augusta-Richmond County Commission shall declare the guarantee pledged under Section 8-3-3 to be forfeited. Upon receipt of the secured funds, the Commission shall use them to finance the completion of required improvements or the rebuilding of such improvements to proper specification. Unused portions of the bonded amount shall be returned to the surety company.
