ARTICLE 13. - MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES

Sec. 3-5-96. - Driving on sidewalk.
No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized driveway.
Sec. 3-5-97. - More than three persons in front seat.
(a)
No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(b)
No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
Sec. 3-5-98. - Opening vehicle doors and interfering with traffic.
No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
Sec. 3-5-99. - Following or parking within five hundred feet of fire truck or other emergency vehicle.
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm or any other emergency vehicle closer than five hundred (500) feet and shall not drive or park such vehicle within five hundred (500) feet of any fire apparatus stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
Sec. 3-5-100. - Crossing fire hose.
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department when laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire without consent of the Fire Department official in command.
Sec. 3-5-101. - Operating unauthorized vehicle with blue lights.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any motor vehicle with flashing or revolving blue lights except motor vehicles owned or leased by any federal, state or local law enforcement agency.
Sec. 3-5-102. - Without or expired emergency light permit.
All emergency vehicles shall be designated as such by the state board of public safety. The board shall so designate each vehicle a permit to operate flashing or revolving emergency lights of the appropriate color. Such permit shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
Sec. 3-5-103. - Unauthorized vehicle with red/amber lights.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate any motor vehicle with flashing or revolving red or amber lights except motor vehicles owned or leased by any federal, state or public safety or emergency agency or other entity authorized to use same.
Sec. 3-5-104. - Illegal use of siren, whistle or bell.
No vehicle, except an authorized emergency vehicle, shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a vehicle any siren, whistle or bell. No vehicle shall be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it can be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
Sec. 3-5-105. - Wearing device which impairs hearing or vision.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing a headset or headphone which would impair such person's ability to hear, nor shall any person while operating a motor vehicle wear any device which impairs such person's vision. This section shall not apply to hearing aids or instruments for the improvement of defective human hearing, eyeglasses, or sunglasses; nor shall it apply to authorized fire or law enforcement personnel.
Sec. 3-5-106. - Use of lights required at specific times.
Every vehicle upon a highway, street or road within Augusta-Richmond County shall display lights, including headlights at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any time when it is raining in the driving zone and at any other time when there is not sufficient visibility to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of five hundred (500) feet ahead.
Sec. 3-5-107. - Failure to dim lights.
(a)
Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an upcoming vehicle within five hundred (500) feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
(b)
Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within two hundred (200) feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing, such driver shall dim his headlights.
Sec. 3-5-108. - No brakes.
Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, when operated upon a highway, street or road, shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle. Every motorcycle and motor-driven cycle manufactured after January 1, 1974, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped with at least two (2) brakes which may be operated by hand or foot.
Sec. 3-5-109. - Excessive noise and/or excessive smoke.
Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with an exhaust system in good working order and in constant operation so as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with any muffler system which causes excessive or unusual noise or annoying smoke.
Sec. 3-5-110. - Operating a vehicle with altered suspension system.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to alter the suspension system of any private passenger motor vehicle which may be operated on any public street or highway more than two (2) inches above or below the factory recommendation for any such vehicle.
(b)
It shall be unlawful to operate any private passenger motor vehicle upon any highway, roadway or street if the suspension system of such vehicle has been altered more than two (2) inches above or below the factory recommendation for such vehicle.
(c)
It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any highway, roadway or street if the springs relative to the suspension system are broken.
Sec. 3-5-111. - Driving unsafe or improperly equipped vehicle.
No person shall drive or move on any highway, street or road any motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer or pole trailer, or any combination thereof, unless the equipment upon any and every such vehicle is in good working order and adjustment, and the vehicle is in such safe mechanical condition as not to endanger the driver or other occupant or any person upon the highway.
Sec. 3-5-112. - Driving on wrong side of road.
Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
(a)
When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction under the rules governing such movement;
(b)
When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of the center of the highway, provided that any person so doing shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed portion of the highway within such a distance as to constitute an immediate hazard;
(c)
Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under the rules applicable thereon; or
(d)
Upon a roadway restricted to two-way traffic.
Sec. 3-5-113. - Slower drivers must stay in right lane.
Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or driveway.
Sec. 3-5-114. - Impeding normal flow of traffic by driving side-by-side.
No two (2) vehicles shall impede the normal flow of traffic by traveling side-by-side at the same time while in adjacent lanes, provided that this section shall not be construed to prevent vehicles traveling side-by-side in adjacent lanes because of congested traffic conditions.
Sec. 3-5-115. - No passing on shoulder of road.
(a)
The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
(1)
When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn; or
(2)
Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving vehicles in the direction being traveled by the overtaking vehicle.
(b)
If otherwise authorized, the driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the right only under such conditions permitting such movement in safety. Such movement shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
Sec. 3-5-116. - Passing on hill or curve.
No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of a roadway designed and authorized for traffic traveling in opposite directions, when approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
Sec. 3-5-117. - Passing within one hundred (100) feet of intersection or railroad crossing.
No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of a roadway designed and authorized for traffic traveling in opposite directions when approaching within one hundred (100) feet of or traversing any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
Sec. 3-5-118. - Passing on solid yellow line.
No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the roadway when such portion of the roadway is clearly defined as a no-passing zone by means of a solid barrier yellow line placed on the right-hand element of a combination stripe along the center or lane line.
Sec. 3-5-119. - Improper lane change.
Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent with this chapter, shall apply:
(a)
A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
(b)
Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes, and provides for two-way movement of traffic, with two (2) lanes in one (1) direction, a vehicle being driven in a continuous or center lane shall have the right of way when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction.
(c)
Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for making a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control devices or road striping.
Sec. 3-5-120. - Improper backing.
(a)
A driver shall not back a vehicle unless such movement can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(b)
A driver of a vehicle shall not back a vehicle upon any shoulder or roadway of any controlled-access highway.
Sec. 3-5-121. - Improper passing.
The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
Sec. 3-5-122. - Following too closely.
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
Sec. 3-5-123. - Crossing median in divided highways.
Every vehicle driven on a divided highway shall be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or law enforcement officers. No vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any dividing space, barrier or section separating the roadways of a divided highway; except that a vehicle may be driven through an operating in such physical barrier or dividing space or at an established crossover or intersection unless specifically prohibited by an official sign, signal or traffic-control device.
Sec. 3-5-124. - Driving on highway closed to public.
No person shall, without lawful authority, drive around or through or ignore any official traffic-control device so as to go onto an officially closed highway or road or onto a section of highway or road before it has been officially opened to the public. This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties, to individuals domiciled or making their livelihood within the affected area, or to any person authorized to be in the affected area by the appropriate law enforcement officer.
Sec. 3-5-125. - Refusal to comply with deputy directing traffic.
No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any deputy Sheriff or fireman invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
Sec. 3-5-126. - Reserved.
