Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 1. - COMMISSION

Sec. 1-2-1. - Seal.
A seal shall be prepared of and for the Commission for such uses as may be properly made thereof, the same to be of a circular form bearing a representation of the City Hall of the City of Augusta as of 1859 and bearing on the circumference thereof on the top the words Augusta-Richmond County and on the bottom Georgia.
Note— (1) The seal is required to be used in all contracts, deeds, ordinances and official resolutions where otherwise legally required.
Sec. 1-2-1-1. - Service mark.
The service mark was submitted and approved by the United States Patent and Trademark Office on July 18, 2006, certificate of registration 3,115,752 for a ten (10) year initial term to be renewed on July 18, 2016, consists of the stylized script "Augusta" with the words "Georgia" spaced below and across the old Government House (1736) oval presentation watermark.
Note— (1) The service mark is used for proclamations, letterheads and other documents where the seal is not required.
Sec. 1-2-2. - Repealed.
( Ord. No. 7171 , § 1(exh. B), 4-1-2010; Ord. No. 7165 , § 1(exh. B), 8-3-2010; Ord. No. 7434 , (exh. B), 9-17-2013; Ord. No. 7464 , 9-16-2014; Ord. No. 7537 , (exh. A), 6-21-2016)
Sec. 1-2-3. - Repealed.
( Ord. No. 6772 , § 1, 1-15-2005; Ord. No. 7554 , § 1(exh. A), 12-20-2016)
Sec. 1-2-4. - Meetings—Minutes.
The minutes of meetings of the Commission shall, at a minimum, briefly describe all statements made and shall record the actions taken by the Commission. Any statement shall be recorded in full at the request of a member of the Commission. A member of the Commission may incorporate an additional statement when the minutes are read. The minutes shall be read before they are approved as soon as is possible or feasible but in no case later than the next regular meeting of the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-5. - Ordinances—Required readings.
(a)
The caption of each ordinance shall be read previous to the adoption of the ordinance. All readings of every ordinance shall be by reading the caption of such ordinance only, unless some member of the Commission shall then and there demand that the entire ordinance be read. Upon such demand being made, the Clerk shall read the entire ordinance. Except as provided in paragraph (b) hereof, all ordinances shall be read twice before final adoption.
(b)
Except for emergency ordinances or ordinances amending the Zoning Map for Augusta-Richmond County, or upon a unanimous vote of the Commission, no ordinance shall be adopted until it has been read or presented in written form at two (2) meetings held not less than one (1) week apart.
(c)
A resolution may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
(d)
The affirmative vote of at least six (6) members of the Commission shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance or resolution. The passage of all ordinances or resolutions shall require the recording of "ayes" and "nays" and the names of the members of the Commission voting for and against each proposed ordinance or resolution or amendment thereto shall be entered in the minutes of the proceedings of the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-6. - Announcement of Commission action.
All communications to persons, firms or corporations affected by actions taken at a called or regular meeting of the Commission shall be made by the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County, informing them of the action taken.
Sec. 1-2-7. - Vacancies.
Any appointment to fill an expired or a new term on any Board or Commission, which appointment is made by the Commission, shall not have less than six (6) votes of approval.
Sec. 1-2-8. - Procurement policy.
(a)
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall have the authority to approve all purchases requiring a bid or written quote when the following conditions have been met:
(1)
The item(s) have been previously approved in the budget adopted by the Commission;
(2)
All State and ordinances and regulations relative to procurement have been complied with; and
(3)
The low bid meeting specifications is selected and does not exceed the budgeted amount by ten (10) percent and not exceeding twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
(b)
Purchases under the following conditions must be approved by the Commission in open meeting:
(1)
When other than the low bid is recommended for approval unless the low bid fails to meet specifications; or
(2)
When the recommended bid exceeds those funds budgeted for the purchase with the exception of subsection (a)(3) above.
(c)
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall submit a list of all bid items that have been approved to the Commission as soon as practical at the end of each month.
( Ord. No. 6774 , § 1, 3-1-2005)
Sec. 1-2-9. - Mayor and Commissioners prohibited from holding other office, contract, etc., with Augusta-Richmond County; exceptions.
It shall be unlawful for the Mayor or any member of the Commission to hold any office, appointment or contract under the Commission, during the term for which he was elected, whereby such Mayor or member of the Commission may derive any profit or emolument from Augusta-Richmond County, except such office, appointment, or contract specifically authorized by the Commission. Such office, appointment or contract, not so authorized, shall be declared void, and no funds whatever from Augusta-Richmond County treasury shall be paid thereon. All funds received or collected by the Mayor or any member of the Commission from any such office, appointment or contract, not so authorized, shall be demanded from such Mayor or member of the Commission, and if not paid, suit shall be brought to collect the same in any court having jurisdiction thereof; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the Mayor or any member of the Commission from contracting with Augusta-Richmond County based upon sealed bids or proposals.
Sec. 1-2-10. - Use of employees for personal benefit.
It shall be unlawful for any official, officer or employee of the Commission who has the control or direction of any employees or laborers of the Commission, to use any such employee or laborer for his own personal benefit or profit. Any person violating the terms of this section shall be punished as provided in Section 1-6-1 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to suspension or discharge by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-11. - Vacancies on agencies, boards, commissions created by Commission.
(a)
The office of any member of any Agency, Board or Commission created by the Commission for which the terms and conditions of office are not prescribed by State law shall be declared vacant upon such member of any Agency, Board or Commission qualifying in a general primary or general election, or a special primary or special election, for any State, County or municipal office or qualifying for the House of Representatives or Senate of the United States. A vacancy created in any such office shall be filled by the governing authority of the County, or by the entity that otherwise is responsible for appointment of the position vacated.
(b)
This section shall not apply to the existing term of any member of an Agency, Board or Commission created by the Commission, but shall apply to all future appointments made by the Commission to any Agency, Board or Commission created by the Commission for which the terms and conditions of office are not prescribed by State law.
Sec. 1-2-12. - Publication of Ordinances, notices, etc.
It shall be the duty of the Mayor to have published in the official gazette or newspaper of Augusta-Richmond County the Ordinances of the Commission, the proclamations of the Mayor and all other official notices of either the Commission or the Mayor ordered to be published by them, respectively; also, such other matters as the Mayor may deem advisable to publish. The Ordinances of the Commission shall be published one (1) time; all other matters shall be published such number of times as the Commission or the Mayor may direct. The Mayor shall have published in such official gazette or newspaper only the captions of the Ordinances of the Commission and shall not have the bodies of such Ordinances published.
Sec. 1-2-13. - Rules of Procedure—Appendix A.
OPERATIONAL PROCEDURE
1.02
Meeting—Time and place; committees.
1.02.01
Except for the months of April and July, Regular Commission meetings shall be held on the first and third Tuesday of each month at 2:00 p.m. in the Commission Chambers on the second floor of the Municipal Building. Except as otherwise provided by law, all meetings of the Commission shall be public meetings.
1.01.01(a)
The first meeting in April of each year shall be held on the last week of the preceding March.
1.01.01(b)
The first meeting in July of each year shall be held on the last week of the preceding June.
1.01.08
Regular Commission meetings for Executive Session matters and matters requiring urgent approval shall be held on the second and last Tuesday of every month at 11:00 a.m. in the Commission Chambers on the second floor of the Municipal Building.
1.01.02(a)
Executive Session meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Georgia Open Meetings Act.
1.01.09
Except for the months of April and July, all regular committee meetings shall be held on the second and last Tuesday of every month in the Lee N. Beard Commission Chamber beginning at 1:00 p.m. with the Public Services Committee starting first every time followed by an alphabetic rotation of the following committees Administrative Services. Engineering Services, Finance, Public Safety on a two-month rotation cycle.
1.01.03(a)
The last committee meetings in March of each year shall be cancelled and all items on such committees shall be forwarded to the last Commission meeting in March.
1.01.03(b)
The last committee meetings in June of each year shall be cancelled and all items on such committees shall be forwarded to the last Commission meeting in June.
1.01.10
Other called meetings of the Commission and Committees and the subject, dates and time of these meetings may be scheduled as needed and notification of such meetings shall be provided to the public in advance as required by law.
1.01.11
If there is a necessity to change the time and date of the regular meeting of the Commission or Committees or of any specially called meetings or any executive session meeting, this shall be done by request of the Mayor or a majority of the members of the Commission, provided a majority of the Commissioners can attend the meeting which shall be held on a different day. Notice of the time and date change shall be provided to the Mayor and Commission.
1.01.12
The Commission may hold such additional meetings as shall be deemed necessary when called by the Mayor or a majority of the members of the Commission, provided all members shall have been notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the special meeting. Provided, further, that a majority of the Commission may convene the same in extraordinary session for emergency business, such a natural disaster or civic disturbance, whenever in their judgment it may be necessary.
1.01.13
An adjourned meeting is a continuation of the meeting immediately preceding, whether a regular or special meeting.
1.01.07(a)
If a scheduled meeting of the Commission is not completed due to time constraints or emergency, the meeting shall be adjourned to the following day or to a specific day scheduled by the Commission to allow for the completion of pending business.
1.01.07(b)
In an adjourned meeting (regular or special), only business which would have been proper to consider at the immediately preceding meeting may be considered and acted upon at the adjourned meeting.
1.01.07(c)
Adjourned meetings resume business under the same rules, limitations and rights as the immediately preceding meeting.
1.02.08
Any action taken at any committee meeting (other than to postpone the agenda item to the next, or a future, committee meeting) shall be placed on the agenda of the regular meeting, regular called meeting, or special meeting of the full Commission for approval of the action of the committee. In the event there is no quorum at a committee, all such items on such agenda shall be placed on the agenda of the next regular meeting of the full Commission.
1.03
Quorum.
1.03.01
Seven (7) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for any meeting of the Augusta, Georgia Commission.
1.03.02
If a quorum is not present thirty (30) minutes following the scheduled hour for convening the meeting, the Chairman-Mayor or the Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore, or in their absence, the Administrator (or his/her designee), may adjourn the meeting until the next day. By unanimous consent of those Commissioners present, the meeting may be adjourned to another hour and day.
1.02.03
If during the meeting there ceases to be a quorum, all business must stop except that the Commission, by majority vote to be recorded in the minutes (naming those present at the time of the vote) may:
1.02.03(a)
fix another day at which to reconvene;
1.02.03(b)
adjourn and return at the next regular meeting;
1.02.03(c)
recess to determine if a quorum will be present within a short period of time.
1.04
Chairman-Mayor.
1.03.01
The Chairman-Mayor shall have the rights and privileges of the other Commissioners with respect to debate, but shall have the right (but is not obliged) to vote on any matter (excluding appointment of any Commissioner to a committee and excluding voting as a member of any Committee as provided in the Consolidation Act) only to break a tie or to create a tie. Additionally, his/her duties during meetings shall include:
1.03.01(a)
presiding over meetings of the Commission;
1.03.01(b)
calling the meeting to order at the scheduled hour;
1.03.01(c)
determining that a quorum is present;
1.03.01(d)
preserving decorum and order at all meetings.
1.03.01(e)
making the Commissioners aware of the substance of each motion;
1.03.01(f)
calling for each vote;
1.03.01(g)
announcing the results of each vote;
1.03.01(h)
calling for a recess at such times as deemed advisable.
1.03.02
The Chairman-Mayor shall exercise such other duties as prescribed in Consolidation Act or by ordinance.
1.04
Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore. A Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore shall be elected from among the district Commissioners at the first regular meeting in January of each odd-numbered year as provided in the Consolidation Act. The Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve for a period of two years and shall have all rights, privileges and duties of the chair in the absence of the chair (excluding the right to vote to create or break a tie), and in addition shall have the right to make motions and vote on any issue, including matters coming before any Committee of which he is a member. The Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore may succeed himself/herself, subject to the two consecutive term limitation contained in the Consolidation Act.
1.05
Absence of Chairman-Mayor and Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore. In the absence of the Chairman-Mayor and Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore, the Administrator shall determine whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the Administrator shall call for the election of a temporary chair. The temporary chair shall preside over that meeting or until the conclusion of the business immediately pending at the time the Chairman-Mayor or Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore arrives.
1.06
Minutes.
1.06.01
All actions of the Commission, except for actions described in O.C.G.A. § 50-14-3 and § 50-14-4, (or as these sections may be amended from time to time), shall be accurately recorded by the Clerk (or his/her designee) in the minutes which minutes shall include:
1.06.01(a)
all main motions, exactly as worded when adopted (including amendments or stipulations);
1.06.01(b)
the name of the maker of all important motions;
1.06.01(c)
disposition of all main motions. Whether
1.06.01(c)(1)
adopted;
1.06.01(c)(2)
defeated;
1.06.01(c)(3)
referred to committee or to staff for further information or recommendations;
1.06.01(c)(4)
held until a definite time;
1.06.01(c)(5)
the vote of each Commissioner; and 1.06.01(c)(6) comments of Commissioners verbatim.
1.06.02
The minutes of meetings of the Commission shall, at a minimum, briefly describe all statements made and shall record the actions taken by the Commission. Any statement shall be recorded in full at the request of a member of the Commission. A member of the Commission may incorporate an additional statement when the minutes are read. The minutes shall be read before they are approved as soon as is possible or feasible but in no case later than the next regular meeting of the Commission.
1.06.03
The responsibility for correcting and approving the minutes shall be vested only in the members of the Commission. The minutes of each meeting shall indicate their subsequent approval/correction. The minutes may be corrected whenever an error is noticed upon approval of the Commission regardless of the time which has elapsed since recording of the minutes.
1.06.04
The minutes shall be attested to by the Clerk or his/her designee.
1.07
Regular agenda.
1.07.01
All agenda items shall include all supporting documentation and such shall be submitted to the Clerk for inclusion on the agenda for all meetings of the Commission.
1.07.02
Subject to the limitation of Rule 1.07.08, the Administrator, any elected official and any member of the Commission shall have the right to have an item placed on the regular agenda of the Commission provided said item is submitted to the Clerk of Commission no later than 9:00 a.m. on the Thursday prior to the Tuesday of the regular Commission meeting or any regular Committee meeting. An item may be added to the regular agenda after the 9:00 a.m. Thursday deadline with the unanimous consent of the commission members in attendance. Unanimous consent of the committee members present shall be required to add and item to a committee agenda after the 9:00 a.m. Thursday deadline.
1.07.03
The Clerk shall be responsible for assembling the agenda and distributing it to all Commissioners no later than Friday in advance of the scheduled meeting.
1.07.04
An item may be removed from the agenda after 9:00 a.m. on the Thursday prior to the Tuesday of the regular Commission meeting with unanimous approval of the members of the Commission attending the regular meeting.
1.07.05
An item may be removed from the agenda prior to 9:00 a.m. on the Thursday prior to the Tuesday of the regular Commission meeting upon the request of the individual who was responsible for placing the item on the agenda.
1.07.06
No item pertaining to alcoholic beverage application shall be placed on the agenda within one (1) year from the date of the denial of the application by the Commission.
1.07.07
No item pertaining to zoning shall be placed on the agenda for the same zoning classification within one (1) year from the date of the denial of the application by the Commission.
1.07.08
If an item has appeared on the Commission Agenda and been defeated, or if no action is taken on an item, it shall not be considered again by the Commission until it has been discussed at the committee level.
1.08
Consent agenda.
1.08.01
All items contained in the consent agenda may be voted on en gross. Prior to the vote on the consent agenda, any Commissioner may withdraw an item from the consent agenda so that it shall be voted on individually.
1.08.02
A non-agenda item shall be defined as that which is deemed by a Commissioner to require urgent attention, but which has not been placed on the published agenda.
1.08.02(a)
If a Commissioner requests that a non-agenda item be added to the consent agenda, he/she must provide the specific item, and the reasons immediate attention is required, to the Commission.
1.08.02(b)
The unanimous consent of the Commissioners present at the meeting shall be required to add an item to the consent agenda.
1.09
Voting.
1.09.01
All votes shall be taken by raised hand, except those which the chair handles through unanimous consent (i.e., "If there are no objections … "), and unless there is a request for a roll-call vote. A single objection will require that a counted vote be taken. An affirmative vote of at least six (6) members of the Commission shall be required to adopt a motion, except where otherwise indicated.
1.09.02
Any Commissioner shall have the right to request a roll call vote on any issue, in which event the chair shall direct the Clerk to call the roll in alphabetical order, except that the Chairman-Mayor's name shall be called last and only when his vote will create or break a tie. As each Commissioner's name is called, such Commissioner shall vote either "yes" or "no" to the question presented. To verify the vote and to correct possible errors, the Clerk repeats the vote after each member responds to his name. At the conclusion of the roll call, the Chairman-Mayor can ask if anyone entered the room after his name was called. Changes of the vote are also permitted before the result is announced.
1.09.03
When an entire agenda "tab" has been moved to be voted upon by an en gross vote (see Section 3.01.05 herein), a Commissioner may, without discussion state that he/she is voting in the affirmative on all of the agenda items on that "tab" except certain ones which he/she will name by number. In such cases, the votes of the Commissioner(s) will be recorded as negative for the items named, unless the Commissioner abstains as provided in Section 1.09.06.
1.09.04
If a motion has been voted on without discussion and a Commissioner feels that it is necessary to explain his/her vote, he/she may have no more than one minute to give public reasons for his/her vote. The chair will not allow the Commissioner to repeat discussion that has already taken place at the same meeting, however.
1.09.05
A tie vote shall cause all procedural motions to be defeated. A tie vote on a main motion shall keep the motion as pending before the Commission and the motion shall be rescheduled for another time; Provided, however, the Chairman-Mayor shall have the right to vote to create or break a tie.
1.10
Public participation in Commission meetings.
1.10.01
Persons wishing to address the Commission shall do so during the Public Comment portion of the agenda.
1.10.02
Subject to the limitations provided for herein, speakers will be allowed to appear before the Commission at the public comment session prior to the regular agenda with each speaker allotted a maximum of five (5) minutes for their presentation.
1.10.02(a)
Persons seeking to complain about the performance or lack thereof of an employee of Augusta, Georgia shall submit such requests to the Administrator for resolution. Such requests for public comment will not be heard by the Commission or any committee.
1.10.02(b)
Persons or businesses seeking to do business with Augusta, Georgia shall submit such requests to the Administrator for consideration in accordance with the requirements of the Procurement Code. Requests to make presentations for products or services will not be heard by the Commission or any committee except as permitted by the Procurement Code.
1.10.03
Each speaker must submit a request in writing, including his/her address, which will state the topic of discussion, to the Clerk's office no later than 9:00 a.m. on the Thursday preceding the next regularly scheduled Commission.
1.10.04
An extension of the five (5) minute limit per person may be granted upon the affirmative vote of six (6) members of the Commission.
1.10.05
If deemed advisable by the Chairman- Mayor, a written response to a speaker may be provided by the appropriate County staff within thirty (30) days. The Commission may respond verbally at the completion of any speaker's presentation.
1.10.06
After each individual speaker's remarks have concluded, the Chairman Mayor may, but shall not be required to, briefly respond, either personally or through another member of the Commission whom the Chairman-Mayor shall designate. In addition, when a request for special action or a grievance has been heard the matter will be referred to the Administrator (or his/her designee) who will prepare a response to the matter. If necessary, action on the matter for consideration of the Commission will be placed on the agenda for the second regular meeting following the date of the comment.
1.10.07
No speaker will be allowed to return on public comment on the same issue within a period of ninety (90) days; however a sneaker may return on another issue following the policy and procedure.
1.10.08
All speakers, other than salaried members of the Augusta, Georgia staff, shall address the Commission in the following manner:
1.10.08(a)
Stating name and address (address is required only if individual has not previously provided address to Clerk).
1.10.08(b)
Stating whether he/she is speaking for himself/herself or for another;
1.10.08(c)
Stating if he/she represents an organization and whether he/she is being compensated by the organization for whom he/she speaks;
1.10.08(d)
Stating whether he/she or any member of his/her immediate family has a personal interest in the pending matter.
1.10.08(e)
Stating his/her comments.
1.10.09
All remarks shall be to the Commission as a body and addressed through the chair. Remarks shall not be made to a particular Commissioner.
1.10.10
Questions from Commissioners, the Administrator, and/or the Augusta Richmond County Attorney may be made for clarification. However, no person shall be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the Commission, without permission of the chair.
1.10.11
All remarks must be related to the issue on which the speaker has requested to be heard. No person shall be allowed to make impertinent, derogatory, offensive or slanderous remarks while addressing the Commission.
1.10.11(a)
A person may be barred from further speaking before the Commission in that meeting if his/her conduct is deemed "out of order";
1.10.11(b)
Once barred for improper conduct, a speaker shall not be permitted to continue or again address the Commission in that meeting unless a majority vote of the Commission allows;
1.10.11(c)
In the event a speaker who is barred fails for improper conduct to obey the ruling, the chair may take such action as is deemed appropriate, including the removal of such person from the assembly;
1.10.111(d)
The Commission may bar a person from addressing Commission meetings for up to sixty (60) days for improper conduct. A person barred by the Commission for this period may request a hearing by written request to the chair, which request shall state the reason(s) for a reversal of the decision. All requests for hearings shall be placed on the agenda and heard by the Commission. An affirmative vote of six (6) members of the Commission shall be required to overturn the previous decision to bar the persons.
1.10.11(e)
If not otherwise recognized by the Chair, upon motion and the affirmative vote of six (6) members of the Commission, the Commission may allow public comment on an agenda item at the time the item is being considered by the Commission. These comments must be limited to the subject that is being debated. Members of the public may speak for five minutes and may only speak once. These limits can be waived by the affirmative vote of six (6) members of the Commission.
1.10.11(f)
The Commission may schedule public hearings for the purpose of soliciting public comment on any subject of interest to the Commission. Hearings may be held immediately prior to or following a meeting of the Commission or at such other places and times as the Commission may determine. No official action shall be taken at any such public hearing.
1.11
Appointments by the Commission.
1.11.01
Appointments shall be made as necessary. When it is has been determined, by the Consolidation Act or other rule or manner, that it is the "right" or "turn" of a particular Commissioner to nominate a candidate for a position, such nominee must be elected by a majority of the Commission. If any nominee, however nominated, fails to receive a majority vote, alternate candidate(s) may be nominated until the position is filled by majority vote.
1.11.02
Any appointment to fill an expired or a new term on any board or commission, which appointment is made by the Commission, shall not have less than six (6) votes of approval.
2.00
Decorum of debate. The following practices shall be followed in debate on motions and matters presented to the Commission.
2.01
Adherence to agenda.
2.01.01
In discussion, the remarks made by the Commissioners shall be confined to the motion or matters immediately before the Commission.
2.01.02
All Commissioners must conduct themselves in a professional and respectful manner. All remarks should be directed to the Chairman-Mayor and not to individual Commissioners, staff or citizens in attendance. Personal remarks are inappropriate. A Commissioner may not speak at a meeting until he or she has been recognized by the Chairman-Mayor unless speaking to make a motion. Any voting member (i.e., Commissioner) can make a motion at any point without needing recognition by the chair. All comments made by a Commissioner shall address the motion that is being discussed.
2.01.03
During these remarks a Commissioner must observe the same rules of decorum as those set forth in Section 2.02 below, and may be called to order by the Chairman-Mayor or another Commissioner if there is a breach of those rules.
2.01.04
A Commissioner may not interrogate another Commissioner, staff or citizens. No one shall attempt to enter into discussion with a Commissioner who has chosen to avail himself/herself of this opportunity to share his/her opinions with the public.
2.02
Discussion of the issue. In discussion, a Commissioner may condemn the nature of likely consequences of the proposed measure in strong terms, but must avoid a discussion of personalities, and under no circumstances may he/she attack or question the motives of another Commissioner or staff. The issue, and not a person, shall be the item under discussion. Any Commissioner wishing to discuss an issue shall be allowed to do so; however, discussion of any particular issue by any particular Commissioner shall be limited to two (2) minutes of discussion and one (1) minute of rebuttal, unless debate is extended by the chair or by motion as provided in Section 3.04.05 hereof.
2.03
Call to order; remarks. The chair shall immediately call as "out of order" any remarks made outside the issue being addressed. Additionally, another Commissioner may call this breach of procedure to the attention of the chair and other Commissioners. In either case, the speaking Commissioner shall be required to continue with his/her remarks confined to the issue.
2.04
Discussion through the Chair. All discussion shall be made through the chair, and one Commissioner may not interrogate another Commissioner or person speaking from the public except through the chair (or with the permission of the chair).
2.05
Disruptions. During discussion or voting, no Commissioner shall disturb the other Commissioners in any way that may be considered disruptive to the proceedings or that may hamper the transaction of business by the Commission.
2.06
Call to order; action. The chair may rule as "out of order" any action deemed inappropriate or dilatory and may interrupt a speaker for reasons deemed necessary by the chair. The Chairman-Mayor shall say. "Commissioner/speaker, those remarks are out of order. Please cease this line of comment and make appropriate comment to the issue.
2.07
Call of "out of order".
2.07.01
If a member of the Commission refuses to comply with these Rules of Procedure the following procedure shall be used:
2.07.01(a)
The Commissioner shall be "called to order" by the chair, who shall say, "Commissioner [using name], you are now out of order. If you persist a reprimand will be entered into the record."
2.07.01(b)
If a Commissioner defies the ruling of the chair, the Chairman Mayor shall state, "Commissioner, you are personally out of order. Let the record indicate a reprimand against Commissioner. Commissioner you have a right at this time to appeal the ruling of the chair by asking that a roll call vote of the Commissioners present be taken and a statement by each Commissioner be recorded as to why he/she is for or against the ruling of the chair. A majority vote of the members of the Commission present shall govern."
3.00
Procedure in meetings.
3.01
Motions.
3.01.01
In order for the Commission to take any official action on any subject, a Commissioner must propose a Main Motion or there must be a Recommended Main Motion, as provided in Section 3.01.02(a). A proposed Main Motion must be seconded before there will be discussion on the motion. A second does not require the Commissioner seconding the motion to support the motion. A Commissioner may withdraw a Main Motion that he has made as provided in Section 3.01.04 hereof, at any time before the Commission has voted on that motion. Prior to taking a vote, the chair shall state the motion (or resolution) or its substance, or he/she may call upon the Clerk or secretary to do so.
3.01.02
If the motion presented contains two (2) or more parts capable of standing as separate motions, a Commissioner may move to "Divide the Motion." This motion shall require a second and discussion shall be allowed only on why it should or should not be divided. A majority vote shall be required to adopt the motion to "divide the motion."
3.01.03
If a main motion is in the form of a resolution or document containing several paragraphs or sections which are not separate motions but could be discussed more efficiently if discussed in sections, a motion to Discuss by Paragraphs. Sections, or Numbered Agenda Items under a "tab." may be made. A second shall be required and discussion shall be brief as to the necessity for the action. A majority vote shall be required to "consider by paragraphs, sections, or numbered agenda items under a 'tab'."
3.01.04
Once a motion has been moved and seconded, it belongs to the entire Commission and not to the maker of the motion; therefore, if a Commissioner wishes to Withdraw a motion that is officially before the Commission, action of the Commission must be taken in either of the following ways:
3.01.04(a)
The chair may ask the Commission if there are any objections to the motion being withdrawn. If there are no objections, the motion shall be withdrawn by unanimous consent, without the need for the seconder to withdraw his/her second;
3.01.04(b)
If there is an objection to the motion being withdrawn, then the chair shall take an official vote on the "motion to withdraw the motion", a second being required. A majority vote shall be required to adopt the motion to "withdraw the motion."
3.01.05
If a Commissioner feels that time could be saved by acting on all of the agenda items under a "tab," he/she may move that it be "Considered en Gross," (See Section 1.08.02.)
3.01.06
When several alternatives need to be considered (such as staff recommendations that propose various options for the Commission to consider), unlimited choices may be considered by "Filling the Blank" in the motion:
3.01.06(a)
No Commissioner may suggest more than one proposal for filling the blank without unanimous consent from the other Commissioners;
3.01.06(b)
Each proposal shall be debatable and shall be treated as an independent item to be voted on separately until one has been approved by a majority. As soon as one proposal has received a majority, no others shall be considered;
3.01.06(c)
Alternatives (from staff recommendations and/or suggestions by Commissioners) are listed in logical order for voting:
3.01.06(c)(1)
Names are listed in the order in which they were proposed.
3.01.06(c)(2)
Other proposals are listed in the order of their probable acceptability, beginning with the least popular choice.
3.02
Main motions.
3.02.01
A main motion is a motion whose introduction brings business before the Commission.
3.02.01(a)
Recommended Main Motions—A recommendation from staff, or another item published in the agenda for action, shall be handled as an Recommended Main Motion by the chair. That is, the chair shall, upon the conclusion of a report, state, "The question (or motion) before you is … " (stating the motion in the affirmative). No second will be required in these instances and the chair, in assuming such motion, is not presumed to be in favor of the motion and may speak against it if he/she so wishes.
3.03
Ranking of motions.
3.03.01
Each subsidiary and privileged motion is assigned a specific rank. A motion of higher precedence can interrupt motion of lower precedence. The higher motion must be decided before the Commission returns to consider the motion of lower precedence.
3.03.02
A main motion has the lowest rank and does not take precedence over any other motion. A motion to adjourn has the highest rank and will take precedence over all other subsidiary and privileged motions. The order of precedence of motions shall be in accordance with this Section. Motions at the top of the following list take precedence over motions at the bottom of the list.
HIGHEST RANK:
PRIVILEGED MOTIONS (Undebatable)
1.
Adjourn
2.
Recess
3.
Question of Privilege
SUBSIDIARY MOTIONS (Undebatable)
4.
Lay on the Table (Postpone Temporarily)
5.
Vote Immediately (Previous Question)
6.
Limit Debate or Extend
SUBSIDIARY MOTIONS (Debatable)
7.
Postpone to a Time Certain (Postpone Definitely)
8.
Refer to Committee (Commit)
9.
Amend
10.
Postpone Indefinitely
OTHER MOTIONS
LOWEST RANK-
11.
Main Motion
3.04
Subsidiary motions. During the course of debate. Commissioners may introduce motions that propose that the Commission take a particular action on a main motion. These motions are called subsidiary motions and they allow the Commission to reach a conclusion on the main motion. Subsidiary motions require a second before they can be voted on or debated. Three subsidiary motion, Amend, Limit Debate, and Vote Immediately, also can apply to other subsidiary motions.
3.04.01
Postpone indefinitely. If a Commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered by the Commission, that Commissioner may move to postpone the consideration of the main motion indefinitely. If the motion is successful, consideration of the main motion stops and the main motion is tabled for the duration of the meeting. A motion to postpone indefinitely can be debated, but it can be amended. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass.
3.04.02
Amend. If a Commissioner believes that a main motion that is on the table should be changed in order to make it more acceptable, he can move to amend the motion. Amendments must be closely related to the original motion and must not change the nature of the motion that they amend. Motions to refer, amend, postpone to a time certain and the motion to recess can also be amended. A motion cannot be amended more than two times. Debate is allowed on a motion to amend only if the original motion is debatable. Debate is limited to the proposed amendment. A majority vote is required for the Commission to adopt an amendment. If the amendment is adopted then the Commission shall consider the amended version of the motion. Concerning the amending of particular motions:
3.04.02(a)
If a Commissioner feels that the main motion might be more acceptable stated other than as presented, the Commissioner may amend through substitution, insertion of stipulations, striking out portions, or striking out and inserting portions. A substitute motion shall be treated as a motion to amend. Such proposed amendments shall be handled in one of the following ways:
3.04.02(a)(1)
by unanimous consent of the Commissioners; the chair, or another Commissioner, through the chair, may suggest changes or stipulations, and if there are no objections from the Commissioners, the motion shall be amended by unanimous consent.
3.04.02(a)(2)
with a second, discussion and a majority vote on the proposed amendment.
3.04.02(b)
If a proposed amendment fails to obtain unanimous consent or a majority vote, the main motion considered shall be the one originally presented.
3.04.02(c)
An amendment must be germane (relating to the substance of the main motion) and may not introduce an independent question.
3.04.02(d)
Improper amendments shall be:
3.04.02(d)(1)
one(s) which are not germane.
3.04.02(d)(2)
one(s) which would make the adoption of the amended motion equivalent to a rejection of the motion;
3.04.02(d)(3)
one(s) which are, in the opinion of the Chairman Mayor, frivolous or absurd.
3.04.03
Refer to a committee (commit). If a Commissioner believes that further information is needed before the Commission can act on a main motion, he may propose that the motion be referred to a specific committee or department for further study. If an appropriate committee does not already exist, then a committee may be formed as a part of the motion. A motion to commit should specify the date that the committee or department will report back to the Commission. A motion to refer shall require a second and shall be debatable only as to whether or not it shall be referred, to whom it shall be referred, or when the person to whom it is referred shall report back. If the motion fails, the motion to be considered shall be that motion which was on the floor prior to the motion to refer. This motion is amendable. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
3.04.04
Postpone to a time certain (postpone definitely). A motion to postpone to a certain time may be proposed if a Commissioner believes that the main motion should not be considered until a future time. This motion shall set a particular time for the main motion to be considered again. It is debatable and can be amended. A motion to hold to a time certain shall require a second and discussion shall be limited to the reason for holding the motion or the time to which it is to be held. If the motion fails, the motion to be considered shall be that motion which was on the floor prior to the motion to hold to a time certain. If this motion is passed, the Chairman-Mayor will bring the original motion back to the Commission for consideration at the specified time which may be at the same meeting, at a subsequent meeting, or upon the occurrence of a specified event. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass.
3.04.05
Limit or extend limits of debate. A motion to limit debate places a time constraint on the length of debate. The details of such a motion are to be decided by the Commissioner who makes the motion. This motion can also be used to extend the limits of debate if a limit on debate already exists. Debate is not allowed on this motion. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass.
3.04.06
Vote immediately (call the question). A Commissioner may move to "call the question" (i.e., move to end discussion) when it is clear that further discussion is unnecessary or that discussion is becoming repetitive. This motion shall not require a second and no discussion on the motion shall be allowed. If there is no objection, then it will be presumed there is unanimous consent. Should there be an objection, an affirmative vote of a majority of the Commission shall be required.
3.04.07
Lay on the table (postpone temporarily). A motion to lay on the table proposes that the consideration of a main motion be postponed until a later time in the same meeting. The main motion can be brought back for consideration only if a motion to Resume Consideration is accepted by the Commission during the same meeting. The motion will die if it is not taken up during the meeting. Debate is not allowed on this motion and the motion is not amendable. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass.
3.05
Privileged motions. Privileged motions facilitate the running of the meeting. They do not address or relate to a main motion and can be introduced whether or not there is a main motion under consideration. Privileged motions take precedence over all subsidiary motions. Debate is not allowed on these motions.
3.05.01
Question of privilege. A formal question addressed to the chair concerning the rights of a Commissioner or of the Commission as a whole is referred to a question of privilege. It does not require a second and cannot be debated or amended. The chair is required to make a ruling on the question, and no vote is required unless a motion arises out of the privilege.
3.05.01(a)
If any matters occur which impede the Commission's completion of its business (e.g., noise, mechanical difficulties with equipment, matters that affect the safety, orderliness, or comfort of the Commissioners, or affecting the honor of an individual Commissioner) any Commissioner may state to the Chairman Mayor that he/she has a question of privilege and the matter must be addressed before the pending business of the Commission continues.
3.05.02
Recess. A motion to recess proposes that the meeting be suspended for a particular amount of time when business is still pending. It is a temporary intermission of the proceedings. A recess may be taken as it appears on the agenda or as it is declared by the chair when he/she deems it advisable or by a motion from a Commissioner. The motion must specify the length of the recess. The motion must also be seconded. Debate is not allowed on this motion, but the motion can be amended. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
3.05.03
Adjourn. The highest ranking motion shall be the motion to adjourn, requiring a second and a majority vote with no discussion allowed, except that the motion shall contain a time to hear any non-completed items on the agenda, if such exist. If all business on the agenda has been completed, the chair may assume the motion and, without a second, obtain unanimous consent to adjourn.
3.06
Incidental motions. Incidental motions allow Commissioners to exert their rights as a member of the Commission. Incidental motions can be introduced at any time during a meeting.
3.06.01
Appeal. Whenever a Commissioner believes that the chair is mistaken in a ruling, a Commissioner may Appeal the Chair's Decision. An appeal shall require a second and shall be debatable with the chair speaking first to explain his/her ruling. The chair may also close out the debate with a statement defending the ruling. An appeal may be made only on a ruling and may not be made:
3.06.01(a)
in response to a parliamentary inquiry or point of information; or
3.06.01(b)
in areas that challenge verifiable rulings of a factual nature.
3.06.01(c)
The chair shall state the motion as Shall the Chair's decision be sustained? A tie vote shall sustain the chair, because a majority vote of the Commission shall be required to overturn the chair's ruling. An Appeal is high in precedence and can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a motion to lay on the table.
3.06.02
Parliamentary inquiry. A Parliamentary Inquiry is a question directed to the chair to obtain information on a matter of parliamentary law or the rules of the Commission. This question should take the form of a parliamentary inquiry and should relate to the current business of the Commission. The chair will answer such questions or may ask the Augusta, Georgia Attorney or parliamentarian for an opinion. The chair's reply, whether or not he/she has requested advice from the Augusta Richmond County Attorney or parliamentarian, is an opinion, not a ruling. If a Commissioner does not agree with the chair's opinions he/she may act in a way contrary to this opinion and if ruled out of order may then appeal the chair's ruling. The chair is not obligated to respond to hypothetical questions.
3.06.03
Point of order (question of order). If a Commissioner believes that a violation of the rules of parliamentary procedure has occurred, he can raise a point of order. A second is not required. The chair can make a ruling on the question or can allow the Commission to debate and then rule on the question by majority vote. A point of order can only be interrupted by a privileged motion or by a motion to lay on the table.
3.06.04
Point of information (request for information). If a Commissioner has a question about the facts of a particular issue that is being considered, he may ask a point of information. A Point of Information is a request, directed to or through the chair, for information relevant to the business at hand, but not related to parliamentary procedure. This motion is addressed first to the appropriate person. A second is not required, and the motion is not debatable or amendable.
3.07
Supplementary main motions. Three motions allow the Commission to act on a main motion that has either been passed or tabled by the Commission. These motions are considered to be main motions but differ from usual main motions in the ways specified.
3.07.01
Reconsider. The motion to reconsider allows the Commission to debate whether or not to overturn a decision made at the meeting that is in progress. It allows the Commission to consider new information that may affect the decision that has already been made. Any Commissioner can make a motion to reconsider and any Commissioner may second the motion. The motion is debatable, but it cannot be amended. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to reconsider is passed, the original decision will be voided, and the Commission will return to debate and revote the original motion.
3.07.02
Rescind. A motion to rescind proposes that the Commission overturn a motion passed at a previous meeting. A motion to rescind can be made by any Commissioner. It is in order as long as the original motion has not been implemented, but the motion to rescind shall not be in order if:
3.07.02(a)
the motion to rescind is made, at the same meeting in which the action was taken;
3.07.02(b)
a motion to reconsider was taken and lost;
3.07.02(c)
the matter is routine and only part of the action needs to be changed, in which case the motion to "amend a previously adopted action" shall be used;
3.07.02(d)
something has been done as a result of the vote to implement the earlier action adopted. An announcement of the intention to rescind a motion may be made at the meeting where the decision was made, or the Commissioner seeking to rescind may place the matter on the agenda for the next meeting. The motion to rescind will then be placed on the agenda for the next meeting. At the next meeting, the motion to rescind will formally be made. If it is seconded, then the Commission shall debate and vote on revision. A majority vote of the Commission is required for the motion to pass. If a motion to rescind is passed, the original decision will be voided.
3.07.03
Resume consideration. The motion to resume consideration allows the Commission to consider a motion that has been temporarily postponed. This motion requires a second and is not debatable or amendable. It is a main motion but ranks higher than any debatable motion. A majority vote is required for the motion to pass.
4.00
Actions of the Commission. All communications to persons, firms or corporations affected by actions taken at a called or regular meeting of the Commission shall be made by the Administrator for Augusta, Georgia, informing them of the action taken.
4.01
Ordinances and resolutions.
4.01.01
Every ordinance or resolution proposed for adoption by the Commission shall be introduced in writing and the caption of each ordinance shall be read previous to the adoption of the ordinance, unless some member of the Commission shall then and there demand that the entire ordinance be read. Upon such demand being made, the clerk shall read the entire ordinance. No ordinance or resolution shall pass which refers to more than one subject matter or contains matter different from that expressed in the title thereof, except ordinances or resolutions adopting the annual operating and capital budgets and general codification and revisions of ordinances and resolutions of the Commission.
4.01.02
Except for emergency ordinances under subsection 4.01.03 of this section or ordinances amending the Zoning Map for Augusta, Georgia, or upon a unanimous vote of the Commission, no ordinance shall be adopted until it has been read or presented in written form at two meetings held not less than one week apart. A resolution may be adopted at the same meeting at which it is introduced. The affirmative vote of at least six (6) members of the Commission shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance or resolution; Provided, however, a vote of two-thirds of the Commission, excluding the Chairman Mayor, shall be required to change any provision of the Consolidation Act as required by said Consolidation Act. The passage of all ordinances or resolutions shall require the recording of "ayes" and "nays" and the names of the members of the Commission voting for and against each proposed ordinance or resolution or amendment thereto shall be entered in the minutes of the proceedings of the Commission.
4.01.03
To meet a public emergency threatening life, health, property, or public peace, the Commission may adopt emergency ordinances or resolutions, but such ordinances or resolutions may not be enacted to levy taxes, or to grant, renew or extend a franchise, or to regulate the rate charged for any public utility or service, or to authorize the borrowing of money. An emergency ordinance or resolution shall be in the form prescribed for ordinances or resolutions generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance or resolution and shall contain a declaration stating what emergency exists. An emergency ordinance or resolution may be adopted with or without amendment or may be rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least six (6) members of the Commission shall be required for its adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify.
4.01.04
The caption of each ordinance shall be read once previous to the adoption of the ordinance. All readings of every ordinance shall be by reading the caption of such ordinance only, unless some member of the Commission shall then and there demand that the entire ordinance be read. Upon such demand being made, the clerk shall read the entire ordinance.
4.02
Signing, authentication, and recording. Every ordinance or resolution adopted by the Commission shall be submitted to the Chairman-Mayor for his/her signature as promptly as practicable following its adoption. The Clerk of the Commission shall authenticate by the Clerk's signature and cause to be recorded in full all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Commission and signed by the Chairman Mayor or otherwise becoming law in a properly indexed book kept for such purpose which shall be a public record and open to public inspection. The Commission shall further provide for the periodic updating, revision, codification, and printing of all ordinances or resolutions of a general and permanent nature, together with such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the Commission may require.
4.03
Publication of ordinances, notices, etc. It shall be the duty of the Chairman-Mayor to have published in the official gazette or newspaper of Augusta, Georgia the ordinances of the Commission, the proclamations of the Chairman-Mayor and all other official notices of either the Commission or the Chairman-Mayor ordered to be published by them, respectively; also, such other matters as the Chairman-Mayor may deem advisable to publish. The ordinances of the Commission shall be published one time; all other matters shall be published such number of times as the Commission or the Chairman-Mayor may direct. The Chairman Mayor shall have published in such official gazette or newspaper only the captions of the ordinances of the Commission and shall not have the bodies of such ordinances published.
5.00
Parliamentarian. The Augusta, Georgia Attorney or his/her designee shall serve as parliamentarian and shall advise and assist the chair and the Commission in matters of parliamentary law. A professional parliamentarian may be consulted as deemed necessary.
6.00
Parliamentary authority. The latest edition of ROBERTS RULES OF ORDER NEWLY REVISED shall govern meetings of the Augusta, Georgia Commission in all areas in which it is applicable and in which it is not inconsistent with these rules adopted by the Commissioners, or with higher law.
7.00
Amendments. These Rules may be amended by a majority of the entire Commission at a regular meeting or special meeting of the Augusta Richmond County Commission, provided notice has been given of the amendment(s) at the meeting prior to the vote on the amendment(s).
APPENDIX
Parliamentary Definitions
The following parliamentary definitions apply to the RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE Augusta, Georgia Commission
adjourn - to officially terminate a meeting
adjourned meeting - a meeting that is a continuation at a later time of a regular or special meeting
adopt - to approve or pass by whatever vote is required for the motion affirmative vote - a vote in favor of the motion as stated
agenda - the official list of items of business planned for consideration during the meeting
approval of minutes - formal acceptance of the record at a meeting, thus making this record the official minutes of the Commission
chair - the Chairman-Mayor or Vice Chairman-Mayor Pro Tempore
Code of Conduct - The Richmond County Code of Conduct
Commission - the Augusta, Georgia Commission
Commissioner - any of the ten members serving on the Commission elected from the ten (10) districts established by the Consolidation Act
Commission parliamentary rules - the body of rules and principles that is applied by the courts in deciding litigation involving the procedure of any organization does not include statutory law or particular rules adopted by any organization or Commission
Consolidation Act - the Act consolidating the City Council of Augusta and Richmond County found in 1995 Ga. Laws p. 3648
convene - to open a meeting
debate - formal discussion of a motion under the rules of parliamentary law and more often herein referred to as discussion
defer or hold - to delay action by referring the motion to staff (or an agency, committee, etc.) for more information, or by postponing a vote to a certain time
demand - an assertion of a parliamentary right by a Commissioner dilatory motions or tactics - misuse of procedures or motions that are out of order or would delay or prevent progress in a meeting
floor - when a person receives formal recognition from the chair, he/she "has the floor" and is the only person entitled to speak
germane amendment - an amendment relating directly to the motion to which it is applied
germane discussion - discussion relating directly to the matter involved
hearing - a meeting for the purpose of listening to the views of an individual or of a particular group on a particular subject in order - permissible and right from a parliamentary standpoint
majority vote - an affirmation vote of at least six (6) Commissioners or the vote of five (5) Commissioners and the vote of the Chairman-Mayor in the event of a tie
minutes - the legal record of the action of the Commission after the record has been approved by vote of the body
motion - a proposal submitted to the Commission for its consideration and decision; it is introduced by the words. "I move that …"
objection - the formal expression of opposition to a proposed action
order of business - the adopted order in which the business is presented to the meeting of the Commission
out of order - not correct, from a parliamentary standpoint, at the particular time
parliamentary authority - the code of procedure adopted by the Commission as its parliamentary guide, governing in all parliamentary situations not otherwise provided for in the Consolidation Act the Code of Richmond County, the Code of the City of Augusta, or other governing Bodies
pending motion - sometimes referred to as pending question; a motion that has been proposed and stated by the chair for the Commission's consideration and that is awaiting decision by vote
precedence - the order or priority governing the motion
precedent - a course of action that may serve as a guide or rule for future similar situation
procedural motion - motion to assist the Commission in treating or disposing of a main motion; or, motion relating to the pending business otherwise at hand
proposal or proposition - a statement of a motion of any kind for consideration and action
O.C.G.A. - Official Code of Georgia Annotated
quorum - the number of persons that must be present at a meeting of the Commission to enable it to act legally on business; seven (7) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for any meeting of the Augusta, Georgia Commission
recognitions - acknowledgement by the chair, giving a person sole right to speak
reconsider - to review again a matter previously disposed of and to vote on it again; must be made on the same day of business
request - a statement to the chair asking a question or some "right"
rescind - to nullify or cancel out a previous action, cannot be made if action has already been taken to implement the motion it wishes to rescind
resolution - a formal motion, usually in writing, and introduced by the word "resolved" that is presented to the
Commission for a decision ruling - the chair's decision as it relates to the procedure of the Commission
second - a Commissioner's statement that he/she is willing to have the motion considered
seriatim - consideration by sections or paragraphs
statute - a law passed by the Georgia legislature
technical inquiry - request for information relevant to the business at hand
tie vote - a vote in which the affirmative and negative votes are equal on a motion
unanimous consent - deciding on a motion without voting on it but where no Commissioner voices objection, with a single objection a vote must be taken
unfinished business - any business that is postponed definitely to a time certain
Note— The Rules of Procedure for the conduct of parliamentary business coming before the Augusta, Georgia Commission were first adopted by the Commission in 1996.
( Ord. No. 7537 , § 1(exh. B), 6-21-2016; Ord. No. 7554 , § 1(exh. C), 12-20-2016; Ord. No. 7686 , § 1, 10-15-2019)
Secs. 1-2-14—1-2-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 1-2-26. - Powers, authority and duties generally.
The Mayor shall have and exercise the following duties, powers and authority:
(a)
He shall preside over all meetings of Commission, regular or special, whenever present;
(b)
He shall call a special meeting of Commission whenever five (5) members of Commission, in writing, so request and he shall direct the clerk of Commission to send reasonable written notice of all such special meetings to each member thereof. He may also call a special meeting of the Commission or call any committee together at any time he deems necessary;
(c)
He shall be recognized as the head of the Augusta-Richmond County Government for all ceremonial purposes and for the service of civil process;
(d)
He shall have the same right to speak at the meetings of the Commission as the members thereof, but may vote only to create or break a tie on all questions before the Commission. The Mayor shall not have the right to vote upon the question of appointments to the various committees;
(e)
The Mayor shall have and exercise the duties, powers and authority herein defined and specified and those imposed upon and vested in him by the acts of the General Assembly or by the Commission;
The Mayor, by authority of the Commission herein provided, also shall have authority:
(f)
To impose disciplinary action upon the Administrator after ratification by a majority of the Commission;
(g)
To examine all bills and accounts presented to the Commission;
(h)
To examine the digest of tax returns;
(i)
To examine the accounts, books and returns of all Augusta-Richmond County officers;
(j)
To examine all other matters and things connected with Augusta-Richmond County finances;
(k)
To appoint some competent person, whenever deemed necessary by him, to make any examination specified in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), and (j) of this section, and to report the result thereof to him;
(l)
To use all legal means to possess the Augusta-Richmond County Commission of all property belonging to Augusta-Richmond County, whenever it can be identified as such property;
(m)
To give the Commission his views in the form of a message, on such subjects as in his opinion may be for the public interest or the necessary information of the Commission;
(n)
To use all lawful and proper means for the exercise of any power, or the discharge of any duty, devolved upon him by this Code, or by the Commission, or by any act of the General Assembly, for the good of Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 1-2-27. - Authority and duties as chief executive officer.
The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of Augusta-Richmond County. It shall be his duty to have the Ordinances and laws governing Augusta-Richmond County put in full force.
Secs. 1-2-28, 1-2-29. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - ADMINISTRATOR FOR AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY

Sec. 1-2-30. - Office created.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County.
(b)
The administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be elected/appointed by a majority vote of the Commission of Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia, from nominations presented by the Mayor following the Commission approved recruitment process. The Mayor shall present as many as three (3) top candidates for appointment, along with his recommendation. The Commission shall elect/appoint an Administrator from among the candidate or candidates presented by the Mayor. Should none of the candidates be elected/appointed, then the Mayor shall nominate as many as three (3) new candidates from those who applied through the recruitment process.
(c)
The Administrator is employed at the pleasure of the Mayor and Commission and performs duties under the direction and supervision of the Commission through the Mayor. The Administrator maintains regular contact with the Mayor and through the Mayor keeps all Commission members informed on significant and/or controversial issues involving the government, its services, policies, and employees.
(d)
In the event of a vacancy in said office for any cause, the Commission may elect an Acting Administrator by a majority vote pending the election/appointment of an Administrator as provided in subsection (c) hereof.
(e)
The Administrator for Augusta, Georgia shall be elected/appointed by a majority vote of the Commission of Augusta, Georgia, from nominations presented by the Mayor following the Commission approved recruitment process. The Mayor shall present as many as three top candidates for appointment, along with his recommendation. The Commission shall elect/appoint an Administrator from among the candidate or candidates presented by the Mayor. Should none of the candidates be elected/appointed, then the Mayor shall nominate as many as three new candidates from those who applied through the recruitment process.
( Ord. No. 6754 , § 1, 1-4-2005; Ord. No. 6772 , § 1, 3-1-2005; Ord. No. 7554 , § 1(exh. D), 12-20-2016)
Sec. 1-2-31. - Suspension, removal by Commission; hearing.
(a)
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County may be removed only by a majority vote of the Commission.
(b)
The Mayor is empowered to impose disciplinary action upon the Administrator after ratification by a majority of the Commission. In case of suspension or removal, the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be given a written statement of the reasons for such action. He may, within five (5) days from receipt thereof, request a public hearing thereon before the Commission. Upon receipt of such request, a hearing shall be set not earlier than ten (10) days nor later than fifteen (15) days from the date of such request. Pending such hearing, and until final action has been taken thereon, the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County may be suspended from office and all of the duties thereof performed by some other person designated by the Commission to perform such duties. The action of the Commission in suspending or removing the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be final.
Sec. 1-2-32. - Qualifications.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be chosen by the Commission solely upon the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to his actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of his office, as hereinafter set forth. He shall be of good character and be of proven executive ability and experience. No person related by blood or marriage within the third degree to any member of the Commission shall be eligible for appointment as Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County. No member of the Commission, or holder of a public elective office in Augusta-Richmond County during the term of office for which he was elected, or for a period of one (1) year thereafter, shall be eligible for appointment as Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 1-2-33. - Salary.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be paid an annual salary to be fixed by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-34. - Bond.
Before entering upon his duties, the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall give bond in a minimum amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), payable to Augusta-Richmond County, upon which bond action may be brought in the name of Augusta-Richmond County at the instance of the Commission, for any act of misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance; the premium on such bond shall be paid out of Augusta-Richmond County treasury, and the bond shall be kept by the probate judge.
Sec. 1-2-35. - Oath.
Before entering upon his duties, the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall take and subscribe an oath for the faithful performance of his duties under this Code, which oath shall be duly entered on the minutes of the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-36. - Duties of Administrator.
The Administrator for Augusta, Georgia shall be the administrative officer of Augusta, Georgia and head of the administrative branch of Augusta, Georgia government. The Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and Commission for the proper administration of all affairs of Augusta, Georgia, and his duties shall be as follow:
(a)
To have the exclusive right to recommend for appointment or removal all Augusta, Georgia department heads, subject to the approval of the Commission, with the exception of the General Counsel, the Clerk of Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Director, and the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Liaison, all of whom shall be appointed and discharged directly by the Mayor and Commission;
(b)
Subject to the rules and regulations of the Commission, where applicable, the Administrator for Augusta, Georgia shall be the appointed authority for all other Augusta, Georgia employees whose appointment is now or hereinafter vested in the Commission, and shall have the right to employ and discharge the same;
(c)
To execute all lawful orders, directions, instructions, and all ordinances, resolutions and regulations adopted by the Commission consistent with this Code and entered upon the minutes of the Commission; in the execution of these matters, except as otherwise provided in the Augusta, Georgia Charter, the Administrator shall keep the Mayor fully informed and shall coordinate with the Mayor to ensure that all laws, ordinances, and resolutions of Augusta, Georgia are faithfully executed;
(d)
To have supervision over all departments or divisions of Augusta, Georgia now or hereinafter subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission, with the exception of the General Counsel, the Clerk of Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Director, and the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Liaison, all of whom shall report directly to the Mayor and Commission;
(e)
To attend all meetings of the Commission, with the right to take part in the discussion;
(f)
To prepare and to recommend salary scales for all employees;
(g)
To prescribe the duties and supervise the work of Augusta, Georgia employees, with the exception of the Augusta, Georgia Law Department, the Clerk of Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Director, and the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Liaison, all of whom shall report directly to the Mayor and Commission;
(h)
To require reports from heads of departments, and other employees trusted with administrative duties or exercising discretion, with the exception of the General Counsel, the Clerk of Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Director, and the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Liaison, all of whom shall report directly to the Mayor and Commission;
(i)
To prepare and submit to the Mayor and Commission a proposed annual budget; when the budget has been prepared and adopted as provided by law by the Commission, it shall be the duty of the Administrator for Augusta, Georgia to execute the budget; no department or office of Augusta, Georgia government shall exceed the budget without the approval of the Commission;
(j)
To keep the Mayor and Commission fully advised on the financial conditions and future needs of Augusta, Georgia and shall make such recommendations on Augusta, Georgia affairs as the Administrator deems necessary for the effective and efficient operation of Augusta, Georgia;
(k)
To act as liaison between the Mayor and/or Commission and all Augusta, Georgia department heads or employees of Augusta, Georgia, with the exception of the General Counsel, the Clerk of Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Director, and the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Liaison, all of whom shall report directly to the Mayor and Commission;
(l)
To confer with and assist all other elected or appointed officials of Richmond County, and all departments, such as Augusta-Richmond County health department, the Augusta-Richmond County Department of Family and Children Services, whose missions are not under the direct control and supervision of the Commission, but who are dependent upon the appropriations of the Commission for their continued operation;
(m)
To submit to the Mayor and Commission at the end of each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of Augusta, Georgia for the preceding year;
(n)
To see that all legislation, programs, regulations or plans promulgated and required by the state or federal government are duly carried out and complied with in accordance with such legislation, programs, regulations or plans;
(o)
To approve all position classifications, reclassifications, reorganizations, and pay adjustments up to fifteen (15%) percent of base pay and provide the Administrative Services Committee with a monthly report of such adjustment(s) following any calendar month during which such adjustment(s) were made; and
(p)
To perform such other duties as may be required for him by the Mayor and Commission.
( Ord. No. 7245 , § 1(exh. B), 5-3-2011)
Sec. 1-2-37. - Examination of departments' books, records.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall have at all times the authority to examine all books and papers of each department of Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 1-2-38. - Duties regarding procurement; delegation to subordinates.
Subject to rules established by the Mayor and Commission, the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall authorize all purchases for Augusta-Richmond County, subject to the laws requiring advertisement and bids. He shall supervise the disbursement of all Augusta-Richmond County funds, and shall render such reports as may be required by the Commission. The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County may delegate purely administrative duties to subordinates in Augusta-Richmond County Government whose work the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall supervise and direct; however, the designation or assignment of duties to subordinates shall not relieve the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County from his responsibilities for Administration of Augusta-Richmond County affairs.
Sec. 1-2-39. - Political activities.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall not engage in or be concerned with any partisan politics or any political campaign. He shall not contribute to any campaign fund or solicit funds for political purposes from any other person. He shall not appoint any relative as an employee of Augusta-Richmond County unless such relative shall qualify and become eligible for appointment under the rules of the Commission and be recommended by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-40. - To devote full time to duties of office.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office and shall maintain his office at the courthouse or municipal building.
Sec. 1-2-41. - General administrative duties.
(a)
As administrative officer, it shall be the duty of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County to conduct, supervise and administer all Augusta-Richmond County affairs, subject only to the general law, to rules prescribed by the Mayor and Commission, and subject to the right of the Mayor and Commission to review, repeal or modify any action of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County which is contrary to the general law or such rules, by a vote of a majority of the Commission at any subsequent, regular or called meeting, when such vote thus reviewing, repealing or modifying the action of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall be entered in writing on the minutes of the Commission.
(b)
The Administrator will assemble and provide necessary documentation for the Mayor and Clerk of the Commission to prepare the agenda for all Commission meetings.
(c)
The Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and Commission for the establishment of comprehensive, efficient and professional administered systems of:
(1)
Financial planning and control;
(2)
Personnel management, employee and supervisory training and compensation;
(3)
Equipment and supply Procurement and inventory control;
(4)
Equal employment opportunity;
(5)
Small and minority business opportunity;
(6)
Community land use, economic development and strategic planning; and
(7)
Citizen information and service.
(d)
The Administrator shall prepare and present to the Mayor and Commission annually a public report on:
(1)
State of the community and government;
(2)
Accomplishments during the past year; and
(3)
Community and organization needs and objectives for the coming year.
(e)
The Administrator shall be the official spokesperson and representative of the Mayor and Commission with the Augusta-Richmond County Government organization.
(f)
The Administrator shall have such other powers and duties as imposed on him by Ordinance or by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-42. - Duties regarding public works.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall receive all requests for public work, road building, repairs to bridges and roads and public buildings, the construction of water and sewer mains, the opening, grading and improving of public roads and sidewalks. It shall be his duty to investigate and recommend to the Mayor and Commission a program for all such work, but nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County from performing immediately any work in an emergency that is necessary to protect the interests of Augusta-Richmond County or the citizens thereof. It shall be the duty of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County to receive and consider requests for appropriations of Augusta-Richmond County funds, all of which he shall investigate and report to the Mayor and Commission, with his recommendation thereon.
Sec. 1-2-43. - Receiving and transmitting reports; use of Augusta-Richmond County property; claims against Augusta-Richmond County.
All requests and reports of Augusta-Richmond County officers shall be made to the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County for his approval or recommendation to the Mayor and Commission; all requests and reports of Augusta-Richmond County departments shall be presented to the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County for his recommendation to the Mayor and Commission; the use and disposition of Augusta-Richmond County property shall be under the supervision and direction of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County, subject to approval by the Mayor and Commission; all claims against Augusta-Richmond County shall be presented to the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County, who shall investigate same and report same to the Mayor and Commission, together with his recommendation thereon.
Sec. 1-2-44. - Tax recommendations.
It shall be the duty of the Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County, with the cooperation of Augusta-Richmond County comptroller, to investigate the tax digests and to recommend to the Mayor and Commission the levy of a sufficient tax upon all property of Augusta-Richmond County, which tax, together with all other sources of revenue which may lawfully be anticipated, shall be sufficient to balance the budget, after it has been adopted.
Secs. 1-2-45—1-2-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 4. - CLERK OF COMMISSION

Sec. 1-2-60. - Election; bond.
The Commission shall elect an officer to be known as the Clerk of Commission, who shall give bond and Security in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the faithful performance of his duties.
Sec. 1-2-61. - Duties—Generally.
The duties of the Clerk of Commission shall be as follows:
(a)
To attend every meeting of the Commission, regular or special, and all committee meetings;
(b)
To record regularly and fairly all the proceedings of the Commission, in a book to be kept by him for that purpose;
(c)
To have the custody and charge of all records, books and papers belonging to the Commission;
(d)
To carefully record in a book to be kept by him for that purpose all Ordinances of the Commission, within ten (10) days after the adoption thereof;
(e)
To carefully preserve the original Ordinances of the Commission, and not allow them to leave his custody unless so directed by the Commission or the Mayor;
(f)
To issue, in the name of the Commission, or its appropriate committee, all summonses, subpoenas, writs, executions or processes required or permitted by this Code or by the Commission to be issued, and not specifically required to be issued by some other officer;
(g)
To notify the Augusta-Richmond County attorney, the Administrator and the reporters of all daily newspapers published in Augusta-Richmond County, of the meetings of the Commission, including all committees thereof, regular or special, and to notify each member of the Commission, for his information and guidance, of all meetings of the various committees of the Commission;
(h)
To perform such other duties as are required of him by this Code or by the Mayor and Commission.
Sec. 1-2-62. - Deputy clerk of Commission.
The Commission shall elect an officer to be known as the deputy clerk of Commission. It shall be the duty of the deputy clerk, in the absence of the Clerk of Commission, to discharge the duties now required of the Clerk of Commission as defined by the preceding section, and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by the Mayor and Commission. The deputy clerk shall receive such compensation as the Commission may from time to time provide.
Sec. 1-2-63. - Clerk pro tem.
If the Clerk of Commission shall be absent from any meeting of the Commission and his deputy shall be also absent, the Commission shall appoint a clerk pro tem.
Sec. 1-2-64. - Records, files, etc., in office or custody of clerk.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from the office or custody of the Clerk of Commission any record or document of any nature that the Commission has made it the duty of the Clerk of Commission to preserve or that by its nature requires preservation, without the consent of the Mayor and Commission.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or mutilate in any way any record or document of any nature that the Commission has made it the duty of the Clerk of Commission to preserve or that by its nature requires preservation, without the consent of the Mayor and Commission.
(c)
Nothing herein shall prohibit the clerk from delivering any such record or document to any employee or official of Augusta-Richmond County for their official use, provided a record is maintained by the Clerk of the person to whom such record or document is delivered and the date same was delivered.
Secs. 1-2-65—1-2-92. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 5. - AUGUSTA-RICHMOND COUNTY PROPERTY

Sec. 1-2-93. - Commission office hours.
All Augusta-Richmond County offices shall be open for the transaction of business with the public from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. daily Monday through Friday and for such other hours as directed by the Mayor and Commission. Such offices shall be closed for the transaction of business on Saturdays, Sundays and such holidays as may be determined by the Commission and at such other times as the Mayor may direct.
Sec. 1-2-94. - Commission administrative office.
All the equipment and office space used in the Commission administrative office shall be used for Augusta-Richmond County personnel or Commissioners only, and no other person whatsoever is allowed the use of any machines, or equipment, or office space in this administrative office without the approval of the Commission or the Administrator.
Sec. 1-2-95. - Inventory.
Each of the County officials and departments having Augusta-Richmond County property in their custody shall keep a record in a bound book of itemized statements showing all of the property belonging to Augusta-Richmond County in their possession and custody. A copy of such record shall be furnished annually to the Administrator for the County's file.
Sec. 1-2-96. - Use.
No Augusta-Richmond County employee shall lend or lease any Augusta-Richmond County machinery or equipment to any person, firm or corporation.
Sec. 1-2-97. - Vehicles.
All Augusta-Richmond County vehicles under the jurisdiction of the Commission, shall be subject to the policies, guidelines and/or Manuals approved by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-98. - Vehicle decals.
Every motor vehicle which is owned or leased by Augusta, Georgia, or any department, agency, Commission, or authority of Augusta, Georgia shall have affixed to the front door on each side of such vehicle a clearly visible decal to identify Augusta, Georgia as the government entity owning or leasing such vehicle. The requirements of this Section shall not apply to:
(a)
Any vehicle used for law enforcement or prosecution purposes; and
(b)
Any vehicle assigned for the Transportation of the Mayor.
( Ord. No. 6435 , § 1, 11-20-2001)
Secs. 1-2-99—1-2-102. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 6. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN

Sec. 1-2-103. - Adopted.
(a)
The records of Augusta-Richmond County are public property and all these records contain information needed for varying lengths of time for the conduct of public business. Some of these records are essential for varying lengths of time for continuity of government or for the protection of the rights and privileges of our citizens and some of these records contain information that is essential as documentary evidence of our heritage. It is in the best interest of our citizens that an efficient and cost effective records management plan be adopted and implemented which will cause any records whose usefulness has ended to be destroyed and which will cause those records which have enduring value to be preserved.
(b)
The Record Retention Schedules for County Governments as prepared by the Georgia Department of Archives and History and approved by the State Records Committee, dated March 7, 1983, is hereby adopted as the records management plan for Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 1-2-104. - Location.
The records retention schedules for Augusta-Richmond County shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk for Augusta-Richmond County and shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
Sec. 1-2-105. - Office of Records Management Officer created.
The position of Records Management Officer is hereby created; and the Records Management Officer shall be the Director of Central Services, who shall administer a Records Management Program for Augusta-Richmond County under the direction of Augusta-Richmond County Records Committee.
Sec. 1-2-106. - Records Committee.
There is hereby created Augusta-Richmond County Records Committee, which shall be composed of the following seven (7) members:
(a)
An Augusta-Richmond County Commissioner designated by the Commission, who shall serve as Chairman of the Committee.
(b)
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County.
(c)
The Augusta-Richmond County Attorney.
(d)
The Finance Director.
(e)
The Internal Auditor.
(f)
The Clerk of Superior Court.
(g)
The Records Management Officer (Director of Central Services).
State Law reference— Records management programs for local governments, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-99.
Sec. 1-2-107. - Standards.
The records retention schedules adopted herein shall be the common standards of Augusta-Richmond County.
Sec. 1-2-108. - Duties of Committee.
It shall be the duty of Augusta-Richmond County Records Committee to review and recommend approval, disapproval or modification of records retention schedules to the Commission; and the records retention schedules adopted herein shall remain in effect until modified or changed by the Commission.
Sec. 1-2-109. - Archival depository.
The Commission shall designate an archival depository to store records determined to have permanent historical value.
Sec. 1-2-110. - Distribution of schedules.
The Administrator for Augusta-Richmond County shall distribute a copy of this Article and the records retention schedules adopted herein and all amendments thereto to all elected officials and department heads throughout Augusta-Richmond County Government.
Sec. 1-2-111. - Retention of records.
Records requiring retention for several years will be transferred to Augusta-Richmond County Records Center for low-cost storage at the earliest possible date following creation, and a reference service will be provided by the Records Center for records deposited therein. Records may only be placed in the Records Center as provided in the approved records retention schedules as approved by the Commission.
Secs. 1-2-112—1-2-132. - Reserved.
