Chapter 3 - STREETLIGHTING
ARTICLE 1. - MANAGEMENT

Sec. 7-3-1. - Generally.
This Chapter shall be known as the Streetlighting Management Ordinance of Augusta, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-1)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-2. - Program.
(a)
There is hereby created and established within Augusta, Georgia a Streetlighting Management Program.
(b)
Pursuant to Constitutional authorization in 1970 Ga. Laws, p. 1097, the Augusta, Georgia Commission is authorized and empowered to establish districts for the purpose of erecting, establishing, maintaining, and operating streetlights and lamps for illumination of public rights-of-way and real properties owned by Augusta, Georgia.
(c)
The administrative responsibility for the streetlighting management program is hereby assigned to the Engineering Department of Augusta, Georgia.
(d)
The Director of Engineering (or appointed designee) shall coordinate and recommend to the Augusta, Georgia Commission standards and procedures that are deemed necessary to implement the Streetlighting Management Program.
(e)
The American National Standard for Roadway and Area Lighting Equipment approved by the American National Standard Institute shall be used as the standard for design, installation, and operation of street and roadway lighting in Augusta, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 7261 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-2, 7-3-3)), 6-7-2011; Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-2)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-3. - Objective.
The objectives of this chapter include the following:
(a)
To protect, maintain, and enhance the public health, safety, and general welfare. This objective will be achieved by providing for regulation and management of the Augusta, Georgia streetlighting system, including lighting within the public right-of-way and real property owned and maintained by Augusta, Georgia.
(b)
To comply with Federal Highway Administration streetlighting regulations developed pursuant to the Nighttime Visibility and Safety criteria. These requirements include:
(1)
Purpose of streetlighting;
(2)
Federal guidance and recommendations regarding streetlighting;
(3)
The impact and considerations of installing streetlighting;
(4)
Criteria and analysis for lighting needs;
(5)
Control of post-development streetlighting management through a regulatory program of inspection, monitoring and enforcement of fees and implementation of best management practices and policies and procedures promoting the use of streetlighting infrastructure and low impact development techniques.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-3)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-4. - Definitions.
(a)
For the purposes of this chapter, unless specifically defined below, words or phrases shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter it's most effective application. Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the singular. Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The word shall connote mandatory and not discretionary; the word may is permissive.
(b)
Unless otherwise specified, or it is apparent from the context, definitions herein will be the same as those in other Augusta, Georgia Ordinances and as used elsewhere in this Code.
(1)
Appeal authority. The Augusta, Georgia Commission.
(2)
Best Management Practices (BMPs). A wide range of management procedures, control measures, activities, and prohibitions on practices which control streetlighting and which are compatible with the planned land use.
(3)
Department. The Engineering Department responsible for all streetlighting management activities and implementation of the provisions of this chapter.
(4)
DIRECTOR. Either the director of Department of Engineering or any duly authorized representative of the Director.
(5)
Governing body. The Augusta, Georgia Commission.
(6)
Maintenance. Any action necessary to preserve streetlighting facilities to function as designed, in order to serve the intended purposes set forth in this chapter and to prevent failure of such facilities.
(7)
Person. Any and all persons, natural or artificial and includes any individual, firm, corporation, government agency, business, estate, trust, partnership, association, two (2) or more persons having a joint or common interest, or any other legal entity.
(8)
Procedure. A procedure adopted by and through the Director of Engineering, to implement regulations adopted under this chapter, or to carry out other responsibilities as may be required by the Code, ordinances or resolutions of Augusta, Georgia.
(9)
Regulation. Any ordinance, rule or requirement prepared by the Engineering Department and adopted by Augusta, Georgia pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
(10)
Service area. All land within the legal limits of Richmond County, Georgia.
(11)
Service charge. Charges applicable to a parcel of developed or undeveloped land, which charge shall be reflective of the Augusta, Georgia streetlight cost of providing streetlight management services and facilities. Service charges will be based on measured or estimated costs.
(12)
Site. Any lot, plot, parcel or tract of land.
(13)
Streetlight management. The construction, maintenance and operation of the streetlight program to meet the objectives of this chapter and which shall include a system to address vegetative growth that negatively impacts the program.
(14)
Streetlight management facilities. Constructed or natural components of a streetlight system, designed to perform a particular function, or multiple functions, including, but not limited to illumination of streets and other Augusta, Georgia owned or operated property.
(15)
Streetlight Management Program (SMP) means the Streetlight Management Program required to be developed and implemented under the terms and conditions of Augusta, Georgia and refers to a comprehensive program to manage the quantity and quality of streetlights utilized.
(16)
Variance. The modification of the minimum streetlight management requirements for specific circumstances where strict adherence of the requirements would result in unnecessary hardship and not fulfill the intent of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-4)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-5. - Scope of responsibility.
(a)
The provisions of this chapter shall apply throughout Augusta, Georgia.
(b)
The Director of the Engineering Department shall be responsible for the coordination and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
The Augusta Engineering Department shall be responsible for the management, maintenance, extension, and improvement of the Augusta, Georgia streetlighting system, including activities necessary to light the public right-of-way and other real property in Augusta, Georgia.
(d)
The application of this chapter and the provisions expressed herein shall be the minimum streetlighting management requirements and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by State statute.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-5)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-6. - Powers of the Engineering Department.
(a)
The Engineering Department shall have the power to administer and enforce all regulations and procedures adopted to implement this chapter, including the right to maintain an action or procedure in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or to restrain any violation of this chapter.
(b)
The Engineering Department shall:
(1)
Administer, coordinate and oversee acquisition, design, construction, and operation and maintenance of municipal streetlighting facilities and conveyances.
(2)
Establish or oversee establishment of development standards and guidelines for controlling the various aspects of streetlighting;
(3)
Determine the manner in which streetlighting facilities should be operated;
(4)
Inspect private systems which connect to the Augusta, Georgia streetlighting system;
(5)
Advise the Augusta Commission and other Augusta departments on issues related to streetlighting;
(6)
Protect facilities and properties controlled by the Engineering Department and prescribe how they are used by others;
(7)
Require new, increased, or significantly changed streetlighting contributions to comply with the terms of this chapter.
(8)
Adopt and implement the streetlighting management program for Augusta, Georgia.
(9)
Adopt and implement the calculation and collection of streetlighting service charges for Augusta, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-6)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-7. - Maintenance and inspection.
(c)
The Engineering Department may require dedication of privately owned streetlighting facilities which connect to the system owned by Augusta, Georgia.
(d)
The Engineering Department shall determine inspection schedules necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(e)
Authorized personnel of the Engineering Department, the Marshal's Office and the Planning Department, bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter, without hindrance, all properties for regular inspections, periodic investigations, observation, measurement, enforcement, in accordance with provisions of this chapter. Augusta, Georgia shall duly notify the owner of said property or the representative on site, except in the case of an emergency.
(f)
Authorized personnel of the Engineering Department, the Marshal's Office and the Planning Department bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter, without hindrance, all properties for which Augusta, Georgia holds a negotiated easement for repairs, maintenance and other purposes related to any portion of the streetlighting management facilities lying within said easement. The Engineering Department shall duly notify the owner of said property or the representative on site, except in the case of an emergency.
(h)
If, after inspection, the condition of a facility presents any immediate danger to the public health, safety or general welfare because of unsafe conditions or improper maintenance, Augusta, Georgia may take action as may be necessary to protect the public and make the facility safe and shall be compensated by the responsible party for the cost of such effort.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-7)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-8. - Variances for requirements.
(a)
The Engineering Department may grant a variance from requirements of this chapter if exceptional circumstances applicable to a site exist such that strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship and will not fulfill the intent of this chapter.
(b)
A written request for a variance shall be required and shall state the specific variance sought and the reasons, with supporting data, a variance should be, granted. The request shall include all information necessary to evaluate the proposed variance including any potential impact to surrounding properties.
(c)
The Engineering Department will conduct a review of the request for a variance and may respond in writing within thirty (30) working days of receiving the request. Any variance request not reviewed within thirty (30) working days shall be deemed denied by the Engineering Department.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-8)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-9. - Establishment of streetlighting enterprise fund.
There is established a streetlighting enterprise fund in Augusta, Georgia, together with budgeting and accounting systems, for the purpose of dedicating and protecting all funding including, but not limited to, rentals, rates, charges, fees and licenses, as may be established and charged by the Augusta Commission from time to time, and other funds that may be transferred or allocated for streetlighting management related purposes. All streetlighting management related revenues and receipts shall be placed in the streetlighting enterprise fund, and such revenues and receipts shall be used to pay for the expenses and capital investments of the streetlighting management program; provided, however, that other revenues, receipts and resources not accounted for in the streetlighting utility enterprise fund may be applied to streetlighting management services, systems and facilities as deemed appropriate by the Augusta Commission.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-9)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-10. - Streetlighting service charges.
In order to fully recover the cost of providing streetlighting services and facilities while fairly and reasonably apportioning the cost among property owners throughout the service area, the following streetlighting rates shall apply:
(a)
See the Augusta Commission approved current streetlighting Service Charge rate table. The Augusta, Georgia Commission may adjust the Streetlighting Management Program charges at any time by ordinance or resolution.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-10)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-11. - Determination and modification of streetlighting management program charges.
Streetlighting management program charges may be determined and modified from time to time by the Augusta, Georgia Commission so that the total revenue generated by said charges and any other sources of revenue that will be made available to the streetlighting management program will be sufficient to meet the cost of services and facilities, including but not limited to compliance cost, the payment of debt service and related costs on revenue bonds or loan obligations incurred for construction and improvements to the streetlighting system.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-12)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-12. - Effective date of streetlighting management program charges.
Streetlighting Management Program charges shall accrue beginning upon the effective date of this ordinance and shall be billed annually thereafter to customers, except as specific exemptions may apply.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-12)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-13. - Disposition of service charges and fees.
Streetlighting management program charge and fee revenues shall be assigned and dedicated solely to the streetlighting management enterprise fund in Augusta, Georgia, which shall be and remain separate from other funds, and shall be used only to fund identified streetlighting management program activities. The service charges and fees paid to and collected by virtue of the provision of this chapter shall not be used for general or other governmental or proprietary purposes of Augusta, Georgia, except to pay for costs incurred by Augusta, Georgia in rendering services associated with the streetlighting management and administration.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-13)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-14. - Exemptions applicable to streetlighting management program charges.
Except as provided in this Section, no public or private property shall be exempt from streetlighting management program service charges or offset against such service charges. No exception, offset, or other reduction in streetlighting service charges shall be granted based on the age, tax, income or economic status, race, or religion of the customer, or other condition unrelated to the Engineering Department's cost of providing streetlighting services and facilities.
(a)
Ft Gordon, Georgia including contiguous properties owned or operated as part of Fort operations shall be exempt from the streetlighting service charge. No streetlighting services shall be provided by Augusta, Georgia to the properties so exempt. If by agreement services are provided to the properties so exempt the Engineering Department is authorized to calculate the proportion of the streetlighting service charge commensurate with the level and type of services provided by Augusta, Georgia to be charged all, or a portion of, Fort Gordon. Such charges should be calculated by the Engineering Department and included in an agreement for such services.
(b)
The cities of Hephzibah, Georgia and Blythe, Georgia shall be exempt from the streetlighting service charge. No streetlighting services shall be provided by Augusta, Georgia to the properties so exempt. If by agreement services are provided to one or both of these cities, the Engineering Department is authorized to calculate the proportion of the streetlighting service charge commensurate with the level and type of services provided by Augusta, Georgia to be charged all, or a portion of, Hephzibah and Blythe. Such charges shall be calculated by the Engineering Department and included in an agreement for such servcies.
Augusta, Georgia may provide streetlighting on Augusta maintained county roads within the City limits of Hephzibah and Blythe at the sole discretion of Augusta, Georgia, but, unless otherwise provided in a written service agreement, there will be no streetlighting fee charges to Hephzibah or Blythe for such streetlighting system.
(c)
A streetlighting service area can opt-out of streetlighting service charges if following conditions are met:
i)
A written opt-out petition signed by at least seventy-five (75) percent of property owners served by the opt-out service area shall be submitted to the Augusta Engineering Department for review and processing;
ii)
A Streetlighting plan (Plan) must be provided for the opt-out service area and it shall be submitted with the opt-out petition. The Plan shall be prepared by a professional engineer and must show a level of streetlighting that meets, or exceeds, Augusta, Georgia streetlighting standards and requirements; and
iii)
A Funding plan for the Streetlighting plan shall be submitted with the opt-out petition and such plan shall include adequate funding for construction, operational and maintenance of streetlighting for the opt-out service area.
iv)
All opt-out Streetlighting service areas not already operational on the effective date of this ordinance, must be inspected by the Engineering Department and determined to be operating consistent with the Streetlighting plan before being granted opt-out status.
v)
A list of properties that have been granted opt-out status shall be maintained by the Engineering Department and such properties are subject to review by the Department to ensure they are maintained and operating in accordance with the approved opt-out Streetlighting Plan. Non-compliant Streetlighting service areas will be removed from the op-out list immediately.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-14)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-15. - Streetlighting management service charge billing, delinquencies, and collections.
The streetlighting management service charge may be billed and collected separately or along with other rates, fees or charges as deemed most effective and efficient by the Augusta, Georgia Commission. All policies of that billing mechanism shall be followed.
(a)
A streetlighting management service fee charge shall be declared delinquent if not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of billing. Unpaid streetlighting management fees shall be collected using the methods of the billing mechanism chosen or by filing suit to collect on an unpaid account and by using all methods allowed by Georgia law to collect on any judgment obtained thereby.
(b)
A streetlighting management service fee bill may be sent through the United States mail, or by alternative means, notifying the customer of the amount of the bill, the date the payment is due, and the date when past due. Failure to receive a bill is not justification for non-payment. Regardless of the party to whom the bill is initially directed, the owner of the real property shall be ultimately obligated to pay such fee.
(c)
If a customer is underbilled or if no bill is correctly sent for real property, Augusta, Georgia may backbill for the maximum period of time permitted by law, but shall not assess penalties for any delinquency due to the failure to send a bill, incorrect address, or an under billing.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-15)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-16. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Director of the Engineering Department relating to the Streetlighting Management Program (including any decision with reference to the granting or denial of a variance from the terms of this chapter and streetlighting management fee decisions) must make a written Appeal of said decision to the Augusta, Georgia Commission in accordance with this Code section and the Augusta, Georgia Rules of Procedure. A written notice of Appeal shall be provided to the Engineering Director and to the Augusta, Georgia Clerk of Commission within thirty (30) days of appellant's receipt of the Engineering Director's final decision and shall be captioned as follows: "Appeal of the Engineering Department's Director decision relating to Streetlighting Management" and shall contain the following information: appellant's name, a brief description of the streetlighting management fee issue decided by the Director, a copy of the Director's final decision and the relief sought by appellant. Untimely appeals will not be considered or processed and shall be considered an abandonment of the right to appeal and a failure on the part of the appellant to exhaust administrative remedies.
(a)
The Augusta, Georgia Administrator shall have the authority to settle Appeals relating to Streetlighting Management Program at any time before such Appeal is voted upon by the Augusta, Georgia Commission. Settlement agreements shall be in a form approved by General Counsel.
(b)
The Clerk of Commission shall place a timely Appeal on the Engineering Services Committee in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and notice of the time and date of such meeting should be provided to the appellant.
(c)
Engineering Services Committee hearing procedures and effect of failure to appear at hearing. Appeals appearing on the Engineering Services Committee shall be treated as any other Committee agenda item, except that the appellant, or his or her representative, shall have the right to address the Committee and to present evidence in support of the appeal for a maximum of ten (10) minutes. The Engineering Director, or his or her representative, shall also have the opportunity to present evidence relating to the appeal for a maximum of ten (10) minutes. The Chairman of the Engineering Services Committee may grant additional time equally to each party at his or her discretion.
(d)
After considering the evidence presented, the Engineering Services Committee shall make a recommendation to grant or deny the Appeal, or to send the item to the full Augusta, Georgia Commission without recommendation. Regardless of the action taken by the Committee, the Appeal shall be forwarded to the full Commission agenda for a final decision. The Clerk of Commission shall make an audio recording of the Appeal hearing and shall make such recording available to Commissioners within two (2) business days following the hearing.
(e)
Procedure to Speak to Full Commission Regarding Appeal. An appellant seeking to speak to the full Commission regarding his or her Appeal must submit a request in writing, including his/her address and the relevant facts associated with the decision being appealed, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the Wednesday preceding the next regularly scheduled Commission meeting that follows the Engineering Services Committee appeal hearing. Such request shall be provided to the Clerk of Commission with a copy to be provided to the Engineering Director. When the Appeal is heard by the Commission, the appellant and the Engineering Director shall each have five (5) minutes to summarize the arguments and evidence presented to the Engineering Services Committee. The Commission will not hold a new hearing and will not accept new evidence. If the appellant has not made a timely request to address the full Commission, the Commission may, at its discretion, dispose of the agenda item via the Consent Agenda.
(f)
Effect of Failure to Appear at Hearing. Failure on the part of the appellant to appear before either the Engineering Services Committee or the full Augusta, Georgia Commission is considered an abandonment of their right to appeal and a failure on the part of the appellant to exhaust administrative remedies. The Engineering Director's decision is considered final and the award shall proceed accordingly. However, the Chairman of the Engineering Services Committee or the Mayor, may, at his or her discretion, grant the appellant one continuance to the next regularly scheduled Committee or Commission Meeting. Such continuance may only be granted during the Committee or Commission meeting and shall be recorded on the minutes of such meeting.
(g)
If the appellant is dissatisfied with the Commission's decision, he/she can appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Richmond County within thirty (30) days of the date of that decision. Said appeal shall consist of a review of the record in the appeal process.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-16)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-17. - Cooperation with other governments.
Augusta, Georgia may enter into agreements with the State of Georgia or with other local governments to carry out the purpose of this chapter. These agreements may include, but are not limited to enforcement of provisions, resolution of disputes, cooperative monitoring, and cooperative management of streetlight system and management programs.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-17)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-18. - Property owner liability; supplemental charges.
Any person in violation of any portion of this chapter shall be responsible for all costs of Augusta, Georgia associated with the violation, including, but not limited to, cleanup, personal injury, wrongful death, damage or destruction of property, or other related expenses. Collection, and enforcement provision of this section is in addition to collection methods provided in Section 7-3-15 of the Augusta, Georgia Code.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-18)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-19. - Enforcement; penalties.
(a)
This chapter shall be enforced by the office of the Director of Engineering. Citations for violation may be issued by inspectors from the Engineering Department, or Augusta Marshall's Department or any code enforcement officer of the Augusta Planning Department. Citations shall specify the factual basis of violation(s), cite the specific statutory or code provision involved, and the Court and date and time to which returnable.
(b)
Any person, cited for violating this chapter shall upon conviction be subject to the penalties provided in § 1-6-1 to include a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000) or by imprisonment not exceeding sixty (60) days, either or both, in the discretion of the judge of the court having jurisdiction. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any such ordinance or rule, regulation or order shall constitute a separate offence. Violation of this chapter may also constitute state or federal laws violation and conviction of this chapter does not prohibit prosecution under state and federal laws.
(c)
In addition, Augusta, Georgia may institute appropriate action or proceedings at law or in equity for the enforcement of this chapter or to correct violations of this chapter. Any court of competent jurisdiction may have the right to issue restraining orders, temporary or permanent injunctions, and other appropriate forms of remedy or relief. Each day of noncompliance is considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Augusta, Georgia from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation, including application for injunctive relief.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-19)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-20. - Severability.
If any term, requirement or provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this chapter or the application of such terms, requirements and provisions to person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby and each term, requirement or provision of this chapter shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-20)), 9-17-2019)
Sec. 7-3-21. - Prior inconsistent ordinances.
Any Code provisions, uncodified ordinances, or parts thereof adopted prior to the date of adoption of this chapter are hereby repealed.
( Ord. No. 7681 , § 1(exh. A(7-3-21)), 9-17-2019)
ARTICLE 3. - EXCAVATIONS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— The sections in this article were originally designated as § § 7-3-18 through 7-3-2; however, said provisions have been redesignated as §§ 7-3-22 through 7-3-25.5, using point numbers, at the editor's discretion, to avoid duplicate section numbering between articles in this chapter.

Sec. 7-3-22. - Requirements.
No excavation shall be made within any public right-of-way (street, road, alley, lane or other public thoroughfare) of Augusta-Richmond County until the following requirements have been met:
(a)
A fifteen hundred dollar ($1,500.00) bond with adequate security has been filed with Augusta-Richmond County in the office of the director of public works or a letter from a chartered state or national bank or savings and loan institution within the state, confirming an escrow deposit, by the contractor or applicant for the benefit of Augusta-Richmond County or a letter of credit from a chartered state or national bank or savings and loan institution within the state.
(b)
A letter and/or plans have been submitted to the director of public works or his representative giving the details regarding the proposed excavations and expected dates of the same.
(c)
A permit is obtained from the director of public works or his representative and posted on the job site.
Sec. 7-3-22.5. - Notification of the director of public works or his representative; completion of work.
The director of Engineering or his representative shall be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the beginning of the excavation, and all work shall be completed within seven (7) calendar days or an extension of time shall be secured in writing from the director of Engineering or his representative. A minimum of one (1) hour's advance notice during regular working hours (8:30 am to 5:00 pm) shall be given prior to beginning any backfill operation. Any backfill accomplished without the minimum one-hour advance notice shall be removed in its entirety. The applicant must obtain permission from Augusta, Georgia inspector before placing concrete or asphalt.
( Ord. No. 7256 , § 1(exh. B), 6-7-2011)
Sec. 7-3-23. - Construction standards.
Construction for all road cut excavations shall conform to the standard detail approved by the Augusta-Richmond County engineer, including as a minimum:
(a)
Select backfill compacted in lifts no more than six (6) inches, loose measure, to at least ninety-eight (98) percent of the maximum dry density as determined by a standard proctor. No backfill work shall begin until all required materials, along with a mechanical compactor and competent operator for the compactor, are on the job site.
(b)
Eight-inch-thick Portland cement concrete, class "A" or better (minimum 611 pounds cement/cu. yd.) shall be placed twelve (12) inches wider, each side, than the excavated trench/ditch. All edges shall be squared. The concrete shall be protected until proper set is obtained.
(c)
Final position of asphalt surface with saw cut edges to match the existing grade of the surrounding pavement after proper rolling.
Sec. 7-3-23.5. - Blocking traffic; signs.
No traffic shall be blocked at any time during construction unless approved as part of the permit and all requires signs and state-certified flagmen are in place. All signs, barricades and flagmen shall be provided by the contractor at his expense, and placed as directed by the Engineering director or his representative.
( Ord. No. 7262 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-21)), 6-7-2011)
Sec. 7-3-24. - Repairs to cut pavement; cost.
Where pavement is cut, repairs to such pavement shall be made by the person, utility company or contractor who made the cut. Such repairs shall be made according to specifications approved by the Engineering director which shall be furnished to the person, utility company or contractor by said director. All cuts and repairs to cuts shall be made under the supervision of the Engineering director. The person, utility company or contractor shall pay as a fee the sum of ten cents per square foot on footage agreed upon by the commissioner of public works and the person, utility company or contractor, but not less than three dollars per cut. This fee shall be paid within thirty days after the cut is made, by the person or utility company making the cut and repairs, and shall be deposited to the credit of the department from which inspectors under the Engineering director are paid.
( Ord. No. 7262 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-22)), 6-7-2011)
Sec. 7-3-24.5. - Failure to complete work.
In the event the contractor does not complete the excavation work within seven (7) days or within any extended time granted, or in a satisfactorily manner, the Director of Engineering or his or her representative shall have the work done with Augusta, Georgia forces or by contract and shall bill the bonding company of the contractor at a rate twice the actual cost.
( Ord. No. 7262 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-23)), 6-7-2011)
Sec. 7-3-25. - Emergency permits.
Emergency permits may be obtained from the director of Engineering or his representative by telephone and must be verified in writing within twenty-four (24) hours by the contractor. All requirements contained herein shall apply to emergency permits (as deemed feasible by the director of Engineering or his representative).
( Ord. No. 7262 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-24)), 6-7-2011)
Sec. 7-3-25.5. - Penalty for noncompliance.
Failure to comply with any section or subsection of this article, except as approved in writing by the director of Engineering or his representative, in advance, shall result in a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day, with each day considered a separate violation. This fine is in addition to the cost of repairs as prescribed in section 7-4- 24. Any company that violates this article will not have any further permits issued for additional work until all fines are paid and all outstanding repairs are completed.
( Ord. No. 7262 , § 1(exh. B(7-3-25)), 6-7-2011)
ARTICLE 4. - USE OF COUNTY RIGHTS-OF-WAY

Sec. 7-3-26. - HEAVY equipment on right-of-way.
This section shall cover any person, association, or business entity using heavy equipment (as hereinafter refined) on or over an Augusta, Georgia road, right-of-way and/or transporting materials of any nature, whether on the road surface or on the paved or unpaved portion of a right-of-way and/or easement (including ditches or embankments).
( Ord. No. 7281 , § 7-3-26, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-27. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term:
(a)
Access site. Any temporary or permanent roadway, drive, structure, fill or device, existing or constructed, that is used or employed for the purpose of crossing, traveling upon or using an Augusta, Georgia road, right-of-way and/or easement.
(b)
Augusta, Georgia right-of-way. For the purpose of this Ordinance, the entire right-of-way of any road (as defined herein), including without limitation the shoulder, front slope, ditch, drain, back slope, facility or any appurtenance of such road.
(c)
Heavy equipment and vehicle. Any and all motorized devices in, upon or by which any person, material or property may be transported or drawn, including without limitation semi-trailers, heavy equipment and/or vehicles being used for the control of extinguishing of fire and/or flood control shall be exempt from this stature.
(d)
Loading and/or unloading shall be defined by their everyday meanings, but also shall include any activity known as harvesting or mining of any product or material.
(e)
Operations. Those activities contemplated by this article, including without limitation the loading, unloading and/or transporting of raw materials such as stone, metal, timber, oil, fill dirt, produce and kaolin.
(f)
Operator. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization of any character, including without limitation said operation's agents and employees, carrying out the activities contemplated by this article.
(g)
Road. Any Augusta, Georgia owned or maintained highway, road, street, avenue, drive, detour or other way open to the public and intended or used for the passage of motor vehicles.
( Ord. No. 7281 , § 7-3-27, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-28. - Commencement of operations.
(a)
All persons engaging in operations using heavy equipment or vehicles in excess of three (3) tons on or across an Augusta, Georgia road, right-of-way and/or easement must provide in writing to the Engineering Services Department the following information at least 48 hours before commencing said operations:
(1)
the name, address, and phone number of the party which will be carrying on said operations;
(2)
the approximate location of access site(s) to the road or the approximate location of the right-of-way(s) and/or easements affected;
(3)
the date operations are to commence;
(4)
the estimated date all operations will be completed; and
(5)
the name of the title owner of the tract of land on which operations shall occur;
(b)
provided, however, that any Operation using Augusta, Georgia roads, right-of-ways and/or easements more frequently than once each month in the same location shall be required to:
(1)
provide this information to the Engineering Services Department once each three (3) months;
(2)
allow monthly inspections by the Engineering Services Department of its operations; and
(3)
pay to the Engineering Services Department a user impact fee of Fifty and no/100 Dollars (450.00) per inspection in connection with said inspections.
( Ord. No. 7281 , § 7-3-28, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-29. - Performance standards.
(a)
Loading and/or unloading. All loading and/or unloading shall be conducted at a site outside the Augusta, Georgia right-of-ways and behind the established ditch line of Augusta, Georgia roads and/or easements.
(b)
Ditches and drainage structures. Ditches and drainage structures within 50 feet of an access site and/or right-of-way and/or easement shall be kept clear of debris, soil and residue at all times to allow for proper drainage. Culverts shall be installed at access sites and/or temporary entrances, as needed, to facilitate proper drainage flow. Culvert openings shall be as approved by the Engineering Services Department.
(c)
Warning signs. Any Operator engaging in operations as defined herein shall be required to post warning signs at least 500 feet on all approaches to the location of operations, adequately warning oncoming traffic of persons, heavy equipment, vehicles or machinery entering the area.
(d)
Roadway. Operators shall be responsible for keeping Augusta, Georgia roads, right-of-ways and/or easements serviceable and clear of debris, soil, mud and/or other materials at all times to allow for the safe passage of school buses, emergency vehicles, mail carriers, and traffic of the general public.
(e)
Notifications upon completion of operations. No later than 48 hours after completion of operations, Operator shall give written notification of such completion to the Engineering Services Department. Within eight (8) days of receiving said notification of completion, the Engineering Services Department shall cause a site inspection to be made by a designated official of said department, and shall provide written notice to the Operator as to whether the site is in proper repair. Should said written notice not be provided by the Engineering Services Department within a reasonable time period, Operator shall not be held responsible or liable under this article.
(f)
Determination of proper state of repair; appeal of determination. If it is determined by the Engineering Services Department during operations that any Augusta, Georgia road, right-of-way and/or easement, or any access site, is not in a proper state of repair, a written notification of said determination shall be issued to the Operator. Any Operator receiving notification that a site is not in a proper state of repair (whether said notification is received during or at the completion of operations) shall have ten (10) days to correct the site or to appeal the determination of the Engineering Services Department to the Augusta Commission. Appeal shall be made by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk of the Commission within said ten (10) day period. In the event of appeal, the Commission shall render a decision on the appeal at the next regular meeting of the Commission following receipt of the notice of appeal. The Commission may receive evidence on behalf of both the Operator and/or the Engineering Services Department at the hearing of any appeal under this article.
(g)
Abatement; bonding requirement. If repairs in accordance with subsection (f), above are not made by Operator within ten (10) days of notification by the Engineering Services Department, or within ten (10) days of a decision of the Commission adverse to the Operator, then the Commission shall cause the repairs to be made and shall tax the cost of the repairs against the Operator and the property in the same manner and under the same terms as the cost of other public improvements is taxed. The cost shall constitute a lien against the property, and the delinquent tax collector shall issue a fi.fa. in the name of the Augusta, Georgia, acting by and through its Commission, levy the fi.fa. upon, and expose for sale, the property in the same manner as levies and sales under tax fi.fa.s are now executed. The Commission shall further require posting of a bond or letter or credit in an amount to be determined by the Commission after recommendation from the Engineering Services Department for future operations on Augusta, Georgia roads, right-of-ways and/or easements. Said bond will remain in force until the conclusion of operations with all access sites, roads, right-of-ways and/or easements being in satisfactory condition as prescribed by this Ordinance. At such time, said bond will be returned to Operator with ten (10) days.
( Ord. No. 7281 , § 7-3-29, 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-30. - Violation; penalty.
For all violations of this article besides failure to repair as addressed in subsections (f) and (g), above, the Engineering Services Department shall make a case against the offending party and, upon trial and conviction, the offending party shall be punished as provided in § 1-6-1 of this Code.
( Ord. No. 7281 , § 7-3-30, 9-6-2011)
ARTICLE 5. - SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL

Sec. 7-3-31. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this section, unless otherwise specifically stated:
1.
Best Management Practices (BMPs): A collection of structural practices and vegetative measures which, when properly designed, installed and maintained, will provide effective erosion and sedimentation control. The term "properly designed" means designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 subsection (b).
2.
Board: The Board of Natural Resources.
3.
Buffer: The area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
4.
Commission: The State Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
5.
Cut: A portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to excavated surface. Also known as "excavation".
6.
Department: The Department of Natural Resources.
7.
Developer: Refers to the person or persons, corporation, or other business applying for a permit to undertake land-disturbing activity and performing development within the scope of this Article.
8.
Development: Refers to any activity which would alter the elevation of the land, remove or destroy plant life, cause structure of any kind to be installed, erected, or removed, or a change of any kind from conditions existing as of the effective date of this Article unless such activity is exempted under § 7-3-33.
9.
Director: The Director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
10.
District: The Brier Creek Soil and Water Conservation District.
11.
Division: The Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
12.
Drainage Structure: A device composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
13.
Existing Grade: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
14.
Erosion: The process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice or gravity.
15.
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Plan: A plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from a land-disturbing activity. Also known as the "plan".
16.
Fill: A portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground.
17.
Finished Grade: The final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling and conforming to the proposed design.
18.
Grading: Altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition; this includes stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling and shaping or any combination thereof and shall include the land in its cut or filled condition.
19.
Ground Elevation: The original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
20.
Land-Disturbing Activity: Any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in Section 7-3-32, paragraph 5.
21.
Larger Common Plan of Development or Sale: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this paragraph, "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
22.
Local Issuing Authority: The governing authority of any County or municipality which is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The LIA in Augusta is the Executive Director of the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission and the Public Works and Engineering Department is an extension of the LIA with respect to plan review and enforcement.
23.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (MRPA): A state law referenced as O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., which addresses environmental and developmental matters in certain metropolitan river corridors and their drainage basins.
24.
Mulching: Refers to the application of plant or other suitable materials in the soil surface to conserve moisture, hold soil in place, and aid in establishing plant cover.
25.
Natural Ground Surface: The ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation or filling.
26.
Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU): Numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed particles are present.
27.
One-Hundred-Year-Flood Plain: Land in the floodplain subject to a one (1) percent or greater statistical occurrence probability of flooding in any given year.
28.
Operator: The party or parties that have: (A) operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or (B) day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a storm-water pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the storm-water pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
29.
Permit: The authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this Article.
30.
Person: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, Board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of this State, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
31.
Planning Commission: The Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission.
32.
Project: The entire proposed development project regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
33.
Qualified Personnel: Any person who meets or exceeds the education and training requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
34.
Roadway Drainage Structure: A device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually nonerodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled way consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
35.
Sediment: Solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
36.
Sedimentation: The process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice or gravity.
37.
Soil and Water Conservation District Approved Plan: An erosion and sedimentation control plan approved in writing by the Brier Creek Soil and Water Conservation District.
38.
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Measures: Refers to mechanical measures used to reshape the land to intercept, divert, convey, retard, or otherwise control runoff, including, but not limited to, land grading, bench terraces, subsurface drains, diversions, berms, storm sewers, outlets, waterway stabilization structures, lines channels, sediment and debris basin, and stream channel and bank stabilization; and vegetative measures to provide temporary cover to help control erosion during construction and permanent cover to stabilize the site after construction is complete.
39.
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Plan or Plans: Refers to the plan for the control of soil erosion and sedimentation resulting from land disturbing activities.
40.
Stabilization: The process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind; water; ice or gravity.
41.
State General Permit: The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Section 1251, et seq., and Code Section 12-5-30(f).
42.
State Waters: Any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the State which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
43.
Structural Erosion and Sedimentation Control Practices: Practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures, sediment traps and land grading, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
44.
Trout Streams: All streams or portions of streams within the watershed as designated by the Game and Fish Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources under the provisions of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq. Streams designated as primary trout waters are defined as water supporting a self-sustaining population of rainbow, brown or brook trout. Streams designated as secondary trout waters are those in which there is no evidence of natural trout reproduction, but are capable of supporting trout throughout the year. First order trout waters are streams into which no other streams flow except springs.
45.
Vegetative Erosion and Sedimentation Control Measures: Measures for the stabilization of erodible or sediment producing areas by covering the soil with:
a.
Permanent seeding, sprigging or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; or
b.
Temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or
c.
Sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod forming grass.
Such measures can be found in the publication Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
46.
Watercourse: Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
47.
Wetlands: Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § II, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-32. - Exemptions.
This section shall apply to any land disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
1.
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72, "Mineral Resources and Caves Act";
2.
Granite quarrying and land clearing for such quarrying;
3.
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
4.
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not otherwise exempted under this paragraph; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in Section 7-3-33 of this Article and this paragraph. For single-family residence construction covered by the provisions of this paragraph, there shall be a buffer zone between the residence and any state waters classified as trout streams pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act. In any such buffer zone, no land-disturbing activity shall be constructed between the residence and the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action from the banks of the trout waters. For primary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. For secondary trout waters, the buffer zone shall be at least 50 horizontal feet, but the Director may grant variances to no less than 25 feet. Regardless of whether a trout stream is primary or secondary, for first order trout waters, which are streams into which no other streams flow except for springs, the buffer shall be at least 25 horizontal feet, and no variance to a smaller buffer shall be granted. The minimum requirements of Section IV of this Ordinance and the buffer zones provided by this section shall be enforced by the Local Issuing Authority;
5.
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "definitions", to include raising, harvesting or storing of products of the field or orchard; feeding, breeding or managing livestock or poultry; producing or storing feed for use in the production of livestock, including but not limited to cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits or for use in the production of poultry, including but not limited to chickens, hens and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; the production of aqua culture, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs and apiarian products; farm buildings and farm ponds;
6.
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in paragraphs (15) and (16) of Section 7-3-34C. of this Article, no other land-disturbing activities, except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices;
7.
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture;
8.
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters, and for purposes of this paragraph. "State Waters" excludes channels and drainageways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, which involves land-disturbing activity, and which is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainageway, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located and provided, further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Local Issuing Authority from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 or 10 of this section;
9.
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Tollway Authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of Department of Transportation or State Tollway Authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the Department of Transportation, the Georgia Highway Authority, or the State Road and Tollway Authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the Local Issuing Authority, the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
10.
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the Local Issuing Authority shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
11.
Any public water system reservoir.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § III, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-33. - Minimum requirements for erosion and sedimentation control using best management practices.
A.
General provisions. Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this Ordinance shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion and sedimentation control plans. Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of Section 7-3-34B. & C. of this Article. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion and sedimentation pollution during all stages of any land disturbing activity.
B.
Minimum requirements/BMPs.
1.
Best management practices as set forth in Section 7-3-34B. & C. of this Article shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the Director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to of O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act". As used in this subsection the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia" specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
2.
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land disturbing permit issued by a Local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries or by more than ten nephelometric turbidity units for waters classified as trout waters. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the Director. This paragraph shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five acres.
3.
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a Local Issuing Authority or of any state general permit issued by the Division pursuant to Code Section 12-5-90(f), the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", for each day on which such failure occurs.
4.
The Director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land disturbing activities occur.
C.
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to this Chapter for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was permitted, as well as the following:
1.
Stripping of vegetation, regrading and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
2.
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
3.
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practical erosion potential;
4.
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented;
5.
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
6.
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
7.
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
8.
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
9.
To the extent necessary, sediment in run-off water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized. As used in this paragraph, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
10.
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
11.
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
12.
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
13.
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
14.
Land-disturbing activity plans for erosion and sedimentation control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in Section 7-3-34B.2. of this Article;
15.
Except as provided in paragraph (16) of this subsection, there is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the Director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment, where otherwise allowed by the Director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8, or where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; provided, however, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to part 6 of Article 5, Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the Director as provided in this paragraph. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) Stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) Stream crossings for sewer lines; and
16.
There is established a 50-foot buffer as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the banks of any state waters classified as "trout streams" pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act", except where a roadway drainage structure must be constructed; provided, however, that small springs and streams classified as trout streams which discharge an average annual flow of 25 gallons per minute or less shall have a 25 foot buffer or they may be piped, at the discretion of the landowner, pursuant to the terms of a rule providing for a general variance promulgated by the Board, so long as any such pipe stops short of the downstream landowner's property and the landowner complies with the buffer requirement for any adjacent trout streams. The Director may grant a variance from such buffer to allow land-disturbing activity, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications and are implemented. The following requirements shall apply to such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed, state of vegetation until all land disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his or her own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the stream bed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to the following land-disturbing activities, provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented: (i) Stream crossings for water lines; or (ii) Stream crossings for sewer lines.
D.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall prevent any Local Issuing Authority from adopting rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions which contain stream buffer requirements that exceed the minimum requirements in Section 7-3-34B. and C. of this Article.
E.
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this Ordinance or the terms of the permit.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § IV, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-34. - Application/permit process.
A.
General. The property owner, developer and designated planners and engineers shall review the general development plans and detailed plans of the Local Issuing Authority that affect the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall review the Zoning Ordinance, Stormwater Management Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance, Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, this Article, and other ordinances which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority. However, the operator is the only party who may obtain a permit.
B.
Application requirements.
1.
No person shall conduct any land disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of Augusta Georgia without first obtaining a permit from the Augusta-Richmond County Planning Commission to perform such activity.
2.
The application for a permit shall be submitted to the Augusta Richmond County Planning Commission and must include the applicant's erosion and sedimentation control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in Section 7-3-35C, of this Article. Soil erosion and sedimentation control plans shall conform to the provisions of Section 7-3-34B. and C. of this Article. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by (6) copies of the applicant's soil erosion and sedimentation control plans. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan or that such a visit was not required in accordance with rules and regulations established by the Board.
3.
In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(a)(5), provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to subsection (a) of O.C.G.A. 12-7-8 half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(9), (10) shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a Local Issuing Authority in the jurisdiction.
4.
Immediately upon receipt of an application and plan for a permit, the Local Issuing Authority shall refer the application and plan to the District for its review and approval or disapproval concerning the adequacy of the erosion and sedimentation control plan. A District shall approve or disapprove a plan within 35 days of receipt. Failure of a District to act within 35 days shall be considered an approval of the pending plan. The results of the District review shall be forwarded to the Local Issuing Authority. No permit will be issued unless the plan has been approved by the District, and any variances required by Section 7-3-34C.15. and 16 and bonding, if required as per Section 7-3-35B.5.(b), have been obtained. Such review will not be required if the Local Issuing Authority and the District have entered into an agreement which allows the Local Issuing Authority to conduct such review and approval of the plan without referring the application and plan to the District.
5.
If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this Ordinance section, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act, as amended, within three years prior to the date of filing of the application under consideration, the Local Issuing Authority may deny the permit application.
6.
The Local Issuing Authority may require the permit applicant to post a bond in the form of government security, cash, irrevocable letter of credit, or any combination thereof up to, but not exceeding, $3,000.00 per acre or fraction thereof of the proposed land-disturbing activity, prior to issuing the permit. If the applicant does not comply with this Ordinance or with the conditions of the permit after issuance, the Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance. These provisions shall not apply unless there is in effect an ordinance or statute specifically providing for hearing and judicial review of any determination or order of the Local Issuing Authority with respect to alleged permit violations.
C.
Plan requirements.
1.
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements as contained in Section 7-3-34B. and C. of this Article. Conformance with the minimum requirements may be attained through the use of design criteria in the current issue of the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, published by the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission as a guide; or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this Ordinance. The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and storm water management facilities, local ordinances and State laws.
2.
Data Required for Site Plan.
a.
Narrative or notes, and other information: Notes or narrative to be located on the site plan in general notes or in erosion and sediment control notes.
b.
Description of existing land use at project site and description of proposed project.
c.
Name, address, and phone number of the property owner.
d.
Name and phone number of 24-hour local contact who is responsible for erosion and sedimentation controls.
e.
Size of project, or phase under construction, in acres.
f.
Activity schedule showing anticipated starting and completion dates for the project. Include the statement in bold letters, that "the installation of erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices shall occur prior to or concurrent with land-disturbing activities."
g.
Stormwater and sedimentation management systems-storage capacity, hydrologic study, and calculations, including off-site drainage areas.
h.
Vegetative plan for all temporary and permanent vegetative measures, including species, planting dates, and seeding, fertilizer, lime, and mulching rates. The vegetative plan should show options for year-round seeding.
i.
Detail drawings for all structural practices. Specifications may follow guidelines set forth in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
j.
Maintenance statement. "Erosion and sedimentation control measures will be maintained at all times. If full implementation of the approved plan does not provide for effective erosion and sediment control, additional erosion and sediment control measures shall be implemented to control or treat the sediment source."
3.
Maps, drawings, and supportive computations shall bear the signature/seal of a registered or certified professional in engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, land surveying, or erosion and sedimentation control. After December 31, 2006, all persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land-disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements as developed by the commission pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20. The certified plans shall contain:
a.
Graphic scale and north point or arrow indicating magnetic north.
b.
Vicinity maps showing location of project and existing streets.
c.
Boundary line survey.
d.
Delineation of disturbed areas within project boundary.
e.
Existing and planned contours, with an interval in accordance with the following:
EXPAND
Map Scale Ground
Slope Contour Interval, ft.
1 inch = 100 ft. or larger scale Flat 0—2% 0.5 or 1
Rolling 2—8% 1 or 2
Steep 8% + 2, 5 or 10
  f.
Adjacent areas and feature areas such as streams, lakes, residential areas, etc. which might be affected should be indicated on the plan.
g.
Proposed structures or additions to existing structures and paved areas.
h.
Delineate the 25-foot horizontal buffer adjacent to state waters and the specified width in MRPA areas.
i.
Delineate the specified horizontal buffer along designated trout streams, where applicable.
j.
Location of erosion and sedimentation control measures and practices using coding symbols from the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia, Chapter 6.
4.
Maintenance of all soil erosion and sedimentation control practices, whether temporary or permanent, shall be at all times the responsibility of the property owner.
5.
Plot plans for single family homes on individual lots shall illustrate the best management practices the contractor will implement during construction to prevent soil erosion and damage to adjoining properties as a result of erosion; the plot plan shall illustrate positive storm water drainage to an existing storm water structure; and the plot plan shall illustrate the method for permanently stabilizing the disturbed soil upon completion of construction. The following shall be illustrated on residential plot plans.
a.
Contractors name.
b.
Street name and property address.
c.
Lot dimensions drawn to scale.
d.
All drainage and utility easements.
e.
Existing drainage swales.
f.
Footprint of building.
g.
Building setback dimensions.
h.
Best management practices to be implemented:
1.
Sediment barriers.
2.
Proposed drainage swales.
3.
Construction exit.
4.
Maintenance.
i.
Positive storm water drainage from the lot to an existing storm water structure, direction of flow to be indicated by arrows. Existing storm water structure includes paved streets, drainage structure inlets, drainage ditches, and swales.
j.
How disturbed soils will be permanently stabilized.
k.
100-Year floodplain data.
l.
Existing structures on property.
m.
Wetlands data.
n.
Distance to any stream, creek or water body on or adjacent to (within 200 feet of) the proposed site.
o.
Delineate 25 feet state water buffer, as applicable.
D.
Permits.
1.
Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than forty-five (45) days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of a completed application, providing variances and bonding are obtained, where necessary.
2.
No permit shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority unless the erosion and sedimentation control plan has been approved by the District and the Local Issuing Authority has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this Article, any variances required by Section 7-3-34C.15, and 16 are obtained, bonding requirements, if necessary, as per Section 7-3-35B.5.(b) are met and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
3.
If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
4.
The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the Local Issuing Authority, as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in the title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this Article. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title to him as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
5.
No permit shall be issued unless the applicant provides a statement by the Richmond County Tax Commissioner certifying that all ad valorem taxes levied against the property and due and owing have been paid.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § V, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-35. - Inspection and enforcement.
A.
As an extension of the LIA the Augusta Public Works and Engineering Department will periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the Local Issuing Authority shall regulate both primary and secondary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, with permit conditions, or with the provisions of this Article, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this Article.
1.
Residential construction of individual lots. The License and Inspection Department will inspect for compliance with this Article for residential construction on individual lots. If a project is deemed not to be in compliance with the approved plot plan, the contractor will be issued a written notice to comply with the approved plot plan. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the contractor engaged in the land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this Chapter.
B.
The Augusta Public Works and Engineering Department as an extension of the LIA shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this Article, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
C.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the Local Issuing Authority, the Commission, the District, or Division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
D.
The Districts or the Commission or both shall periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a). The Districts or the Commission or both may provide technical assistance to any county or municipality for the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the County's or Municipality's Erosion and Sedimentation Control Program. The Districts or the Commission shall notify the Division and request investigation by the Division if any deficient or ineffective local program is found.
E.
The Board, on or before December 31, 2003, shall promulgate rules and regulations setting forth the requirements and standards for certification and the procedures for decertification of a Local Issuing Authority. The Division may periodically review the actions of counties and municipalities which have been certified as Local Issuing Authorities pursuant to Code Section 12-7-8(a). Such review may include, but shall not be limited to, review of the administration and enforcement of a governing authority's ordinance and review of conformance with an agreement, if any, between the District and the governing authority. If such review indicates that the governing authority of any county or municipality certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a) has not administered or enforced its ordinances or has not conducted the program in accordance with any agreement entered into pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(e), the Division shall notify the governing authority of the County or municipality in writing. The governing authority of any county or municipality so notified shall have 30 days within which to take the County or municipality does not take necessary corrective action within 30 days after notification by the Division, the Division may revoke the certification of the County or municipality as a Local Issuing Authority.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § VI, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-36. - Penalties and incentives.
A.
Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity. If any person commences any land disturbing activity requiring a land disturbing permit as prescribed in this Article without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Local Issuing Authority.
B.
Stop-work orders.
1.
For the first violation of the provisions of this Article, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue a Stop-Work Order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the State or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate Stop-Work Order in lieu of a warning;
2.
For a second and each subsequent violation, the Director or the Local Issuing Authority shall issue an immediate Stop-Work Order; and;
3.
All Stop-Work Orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
4.
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the Local Issuing Authority or by the Director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
C.
Bond forfeiture. If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this Article and, in addition to other penalties, shall be deemed to have forfeited his Performance Bond, if required to post one under the provisions of Section 7-3-35B.5.(b). The Local Issuing Authority may call the bond or any part thereof to be forfeited and may use the proceeds to hire a contractor to stabilize the site of the land-disturbing activity and bring it into compliance.
D.
Monetary penalties.
1.
Any person who violates any provisions of this Article, or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this Article, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the Director issued as provided in this Article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Ordinance, notwithstanding any provisions in any City Charter to the contrary, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Notwithstanding any limitation of law as to penalties which can be assessed for violations of County Ordinances, any magistrate court or any other court of competent jurisdiction trying cases brought as violations of this Article under County Ordinances approved under this Article shall be authorized to impose penalties for such violations not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
2.
Under provision of this section, any person who continues to violate, knowingly and intentionally becoming a habitual violator on the same or different site will be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day.
3.
Penalties, less court costs, shall be returned to the Local Issuing Authority and deposited into the NPDES account.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § VII, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-37. - Education and certification.
After December 31, 2006, all persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspection or any land disturbing activity shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the Commission in consultation with the Division and the Stakeholder Advisory Board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
( Ord. No. 6947 , § VIII, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-38. - Administrative appeal; judicial review.
A.
Administrative remedies. The suspension, revocation, modification or grant with condition of a permit by the Local Issuing Authority upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved Erosion and Sediment Control Plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any Ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the Augusta Commission within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Local Issuing Authority of written notice of appeal.
B.
Judicial review. Any person, aggrieved by a decision or order of the Local Issuing Authority, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 6710 , §§ I—X, 7-21-2004; Ord. No. 6947 , § IX, 2-22-2007)
Sec. 7-3-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 6. - GRADING PERMIT

Sec. 7-3-40. - Statement of purpose.
Soil erosion and sediment deposition onto lands and into waters in Augusta, Georgia are occurring as a result of land clearing, excavation, filling, grading, and construction activities. Such erosion and sediment deposition results in pollution of Augusta, Georgia waters and damage to domestic, agricultural, recreational, fish and wildlife, and other resource uses.
This Ordinance provides rules and regulations for excavation, filling, and grading activities within Augusta, Georgia and provides for administration and enforcement of said rules and regulations.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-40), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-41. - Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this Ordinance, are defined as follows:
a)
Excavation — mechanical removal of earth material.
b)
Fill — the deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
c)
Grading — any excavation or filling or combination thereof.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-41), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-42. - Exemptions.
No excavation, filling, or grading shall be conducted within Augusta, Georgia, except for those activities as provided below, without first securing a permit as required by this Ordinance. The following activities are exempted from the provisions of this Ordinance.
a)
Minimum land disturbing activities such as house gardens, and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work and other related activities;
b)
Agricultural practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard, preparing and planting of pasture land, forestry land management practices including harvesting (where stumps are not removed), farm ponds, dairy operations, livestock and poultry management practices, and the construction of farm buildings;
c)
Projects carried out under the technical supervision of the Soil Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture;
d)
Excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building permit. This shall not exempt any fill made with the material from such excavation nor exempt any excavation having an unsupported height greater than 5 feet after the completion of such structure;
e)
Cemetery graves;
f)
Approved refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
g)
Excavations for wells or tunnels or utilities;
h)
Approved mining, quarrying, excavation, processing, stockpiling of rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and provided for by law, provided such operations do not affect the lateral support or increase the stress in or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property;
i)
Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or engineering geologists.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-42), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-43. - Permit procedures.
a)
Except as exempted in § 7-3-42, no person shall do any excavation, filling, or grading without first obtaining a grading permit from the Augusta Planning & Development Department. A separate permit shall be required for each site.
b)
Where a new single family residential building is to be immediately constructed or where a manufactured home is to be placed on a parcel, an individual plot plan pursuant to the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance § 7-3-35(b)(1) shall be provided and reviewed by the License and Inspections Department before a building permit is issued for a single family residential building or before a certificate of occupancy is issued for a manufactured home.
c)
To obtain a permit for a residential lot in an approved subdivision where grading is to be conducted but a home is not to be immediately constructed, the applicant shall phone or visit the Augusta Planning & Development Department to obtain a permit number. Information required for each residential grading site shall be:
(1)
Lot number, block number, subdivision name, tax parcel number (if available) and street address or similar description that will readily identify and locate the proposed grading activity;
(2)
Lot owner;
(3)
Contractor performing the grading activity;
(4)
Name, address and phone number of person making the application;
(5)
Estimated start and completion dates.
In all other areas, to obtain a permit for grading activities where no new building construction (residential or commercial) is immediately imminent; the applicant shall submit a Grading Plan per the requirements of § 7-3-44 of this Code.
(d)
A Site Plan will also be required for commercial development not specifically exempted in § 7-3-42. The Augusta Planning & Development Department shall review each application for a Site Plan under this Ordinance, and determine whether said application is in conflict with other Ordinances of the Augusta-Richmond County Code, such as those relative to Zoning, Subdivision of Land, Soil Erosion and Floodplain Management. Unless exempted elsewhere in this Ordinance, a Grading Plan will be required.
(e)
Site activity involving land disturbance greater than 1.1 acre shall also be required to submit a Soil Erosion Sediment Control Plan per the provisions of § 7-3-31 et seq. of the Augusta-Richmond County Code.
(f)
A Site Plan/Grading Plan/Soil Erosion Plan will be reviewed by the appropriate reviewing agencies for compliance with Augusta-Richmond County code and a grading permit will be issued upon approval from said reviewing agencies.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-43), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-44. - Grading plan requirements.
(a)
Grading Plans shall be drawn to scale no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet. Where large sites are being planned, they may be drawn on one or more sheets. No drawing shall exceed 36 inches by 48 inches in size.
(b)
The following information shall be included on each Grading Plan:
(1)
Name of development.
(2)
Owner (name, address, and telephone number).
(3)
Developer (name, address, and telephone number).
(4)
Date plan drawn, and revision dates as applicable.
(5)
Seal and signature of a registered engineer.
(6)
North arrow with reference.
(7)
Scale (no less than 1" = 100').
(8)
Tax parcel number.
(9)
Zoning classification.
(10)
Use and zoning of all adjacent parcels with owner(s) name(s).
(11)
Existing and proposed elevations referenced to mean sea level, with a contour interval of 2 feet, accurate to one-half contour to indicate surface drainage patterns.
(12)
Source of datum (benchmark used: GS benchmark, if available), and location of BM or TBM at the site.
(13)
Existing pavement width and right-of-way width of any existing streets adjacent to the development and distances to nearest intersection.
(14)
Acreage of property to be developed.
(15)
Location sketch (scale no less than 1" = 2000').
(16)
Heavy outline of 100 year flood plain and note thereof. Any disturbances within flood plain limits must comply with the City Flood Ordinance. If the property is not in a 100 year flood plain then write a note stating that.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-44), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-45. - Placard.
(a)
No placard is required for residential lots in an approved subdivision; however a permit number is required per the phone-in procedures listed elsewhere in this Ordinance.
(b)
When a Site Plan application is approved pursuant to this Ordinance, a placard shall be presented to the applicant illustrating the permit number, name of the applicant and the location and description of the permitted activity. Such placard shall be provided free of charge and shall be placed on the site in a conspicuous place visible from nearby streets or roads before work commences.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-45), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-46. - Inspection and revocation.
The City Engineer shall be responsible for inspecting or requiring inspection of work being performed under the requirements of this Ordinance. Permits issued under the provisions of this Ordinance may be suspended, revoked or modified upon a finding that the activity of the holder is not consistent with information provided in his permit application.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-46), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-47. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance -within Augusta, Georgia. This enforcement shall be in the manner and form with the powers provided in the Laws of the State and in the Augusta-Richmond County Code. Violations of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be called to the attention of the County Attorney, who shall immediately institute injunctions, abatement, or any other appropriate actin to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove such violations. Any property owner who may be damaged by any violation of this Ordinance may also institute such action. Any person or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise, who violates any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in Augusta-Richmond Code § 1-6-1.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-47), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-48. - License required.
Contractors or builders conducting excavation, grading, and filling projects in August, Georgia that are not exempted under the provisions of this Ordinance shall comply with § 2-1-1 et seq. of the Augusta-Richmond County Code.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-48), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-49. - Conflict with other laws.
No provision of this Ordinance shall authorize any person to violate, or to pollute any waters of the State of Georgia as defined by any provisions of the "Water Quality Control Act" (Georgia Laws, 1964, p. 416), as now or hereafter amended, or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder nor shall this Ordinance release any person from legal obligations embodied in any other Federal, State or Local laws or ordinances.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-49), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-50. - Appeal procedure.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the issuing authority to the requirements of this Ordinance shall first present the grievance to the issuing authority for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the decision or order and lacking a satisfactory settlement shall then have the right to appeal de novo to the Superior Court of Richmond County. Appeals to Superior Court must be filed within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision of the issuing authority; and upon failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days, the decision of the issuing authority shall be final.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-50), 9-6-2011)
Sec. 7-3-51. - Severability.
Any clause or provision of this Ordinance declared invalid shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof.
( Ord. No. 6166 , 6-1-1999; Ord. No. 7283 , § 1(7-3-51), 9-6-2011)
Secs. 7-3-52—7-3-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 7. - STREET AND ROAD DESIGN

Sec. 7-3-60. - Construction standards.
Construction of all roads and streets to be dedicated to Augusta, Georgia shall conform to the standard detail approved by the Augusta Department of Public Works and Engineering, as set forth in the Street and Road Design Technical Manual.
( Ord. No. 6174 , § 1, 7-6-1999)
Editor's note— The Street and Road Design Technical Manual is not set out herein, but is on file with the County.
