ARTICLE 7. - PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES

Sec. 3-5-51. - Crossing at right angles.
Except where otherwise indicated by a crosswalk or other official traffic-control devices, a pedestrian shall cross a roadway at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite side.
Sec. 3-5-52. - Failure to stop by pedestrian for railroad crossing barrier.
No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
Sec. 3-5-53. - Drivers must use due care with children and drunks.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this Article, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway, shall give warning by sounding his horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper precautions upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or intoxicated person.
Sec. 3-5-54. - Pedestrian under the influence.
A person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any drug to a degree which renders him a hazard shall not walk or be upon any roadway.
Sec. 3-5-55. - No person to stand in road to solicit rides or business.
(a)
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride.
(b)
Except as herein provided, no person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle. Notwithstanding the above, a permit for solicitation on the right-of-way may be obtained from the Sheriff of Richmond County provided the applicant meets the following criteria, to-wit:
(1)
The applicant shall be a charitable organization, and the solicitation shall only be for contributions for a charitable purpose and shall not be for the purpose of selling goods or materials of any kind;
(2)
The applicant shall provide a plan for review and comment by the Sheriff's Department, which plan will assure the safety of the applicant's representatives, as well as the motoring public, at the locations where the solicitation will take place;
(3)
The applicant shall indicate in specific detail the location of such solicitation, together with the hours thereof;
(4)
The applicant shall not have previously solicited contributions on the right-of-way in Augusta-Richmond County within the preceding twelve (12) months;
(5)
The applicant shall provide an indemnification and hold harmless agreement in favor of the Augusta-Richmond County Commission, its elected officials and officers, servants, and employees, in a form satisfactory to the Augusta-Richmond County attorney;
(6)
The Sheriff's Department may consider the nature of the solicitation request, the plan for safety of the applicant's representatives, as well as the motoring public, the location where solicitation is being proposed, the hours of proposed solicitation, expected or anticipated traffic or traffic congestion at the proposed locations, prior requests by the applicant as well as prior experience with solicitations by said applicant, and such other matters as may be important to assure the safety of the applicant's representatives as well as the motoring public at the time and place where the solicitation is proposed to take place;
(7)
The Sheriff's Department shall have the right to terminate the solicitation at any time, either before or during the solicitation event, should traffic, weather, or other conditions develop, which in the sole discretion of the Sheriff's Department, present a danger to the applicant's representatives or the motoring public.
(c)
No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or about to be parked on a street or highway.
Sec. 3-5-56. - Driver must yield to pedestrian on sidewalk.
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian on a sidewalk. It shall make no difference whether a vehicle is coming out of a private driveway, alley, building or other location, or whether it is entering from the street or highway.
Sec. 3-5-57. - Reserved.
