ARTICLE X. - HOUSING REGULATIONS

Sec. 10.1. - Individual detached single-family dwellings.
10.1.1 These provisions shall apply evenly to all individual single-family detached dwellings, including conventional, industrialized and manufactured homes.
10.1.2 Any single-family dwelling shall contain not less than 1,200 square feet of heated living space, and shall comply with the applicable standards of the zoning district. The county building code ordinance and the county building inspections department should be consulted for other applicable regulations and codes. An existing structure may not include an addition to fulfill the minimum square footage.
10.1.3 Any dwelling which is damaged beyond repair by fire or natural or manmade disaster shall be removed and disposed of within a time period not to exceed 60 days after said damage occurred. An extension of this time may be approved by the zoning administrator.
10.1.4 Any single-family dwelling shall have a minimum roof pitch of 5:12. Minimum roof pitch does not apply to architectural features such as porches, bay windows, etc.
10.1.5 Any single-family dwelling shall have porches or landings on at least two sides, within a minimum size of 5 feet by 5 feet.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 10.2. - Reserved.
Sec. 10.3. - Manufactured houses.
Any dwelling that is classified as a manufactured house by the definitions stated in this Ordinance shall be subject to the following provisions of this Ordinance:
10.3.1 Decal. A location decal application shall be required to be filed for a manufactured house in the office of the Tax Commissioner annually for each manufactured house that is henceforth located on an individual lot, in a manufactured house park, or subdivision in Bartow County.
10.3.2 Permanent placement. Any manufacture home used as a single-family dwelling shall be permanently affixed to the ground.
10.3.3 Use for Storage Prohibited. Manufactured house units (or mobile homes) may not be used for storage buildings. Manufactured houses may only be placed in compliance with the terms of this Ordinance and used as dwelling units.
10.3.4 Improper Placement. t is not permitted to place or store a manufactured house on a residential lot without compliance with this Ordinance and without first obtaining an installation permit from the Building Official. Manufactured houses may not be placed or erected in the front yard of a dwelling, or in the public right-of-way, or in any setback or buffer area. An administrative variance to these provisions may be granted by the Zoning Administrator in hardship situations, but in no case for occupancy.
10.3.5 See the Bartow Building Code Ordinance (the Building Code) for additional regulations regarding installation of manufactured homes where permitted.
(Ord. of 7-21-2021(4) )
Sec. 10.4. - Reserved.
