DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 74-251. - Interference with county property prohibited.
(a)
All persons are prohibited from interfering with or disturbing in any manner or form, any sewer or other appliances of the county, or to appropriate or use any sewer after service has been discontinued for the nonpayment of the charges therefore or for other cause. The head of the household or property owner involved shall be held responsible for the violation of this section. Penalties of up to $500.00 shall be assessed where a sewer service has been disturbed, plus the fee for sewer used.
(b)
Unauthorized operation of any part of the county owned sewer system will result in a fine of up to $500.00, plus the fee for sewer used.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 1)
Sec. 74-252. - Title to extensions; refusal of extensions.
(a)
Title to all sewerline extensions shall vest in the county upon completion.
(b)
The county shall reserve the right to refuse any extension of sewer service, or prescribe any additional conditions, if in its judgment the proposed extension would not promote the orderly, harmonious and efficient growth and development of the county and the urban area.
(c)
The county shall reserve the right to refuse any extension of sewer service to any customer with outstanding balances due or outstanding fines due.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 2)
Sec. 74-253. - Abbreviations and definitions.
(a)
The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the designated meanings:
BOD—Biochemical oxygen demand.
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations.
COD—Chemical oxygen demand.
EPA—U. S. Environmental Protection Agency.
EPD—Environmental Protection Division, Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
gpd—Gallons per day.
mg/L—Milligrams per liter.
NPDES—National pollutant discharge elimination system.
POTW—Publicly-owned treatment works.
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
SIC—Standard industrial classification.
SWDA—Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 6901 et seq.
TSS—Total suspended solids.
USC—United States Code.
(b)
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
Act or the act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
Approval authority means the Environmental Protection Division, a part of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources.
Authorized representative of the user means:
(1)
If the user is a corporation:
a.
The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
b.
The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000.00 (in second quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
(2)
If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or proprietor, respectively.
(3)
If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility: a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
(4)
The individuals described in subsections (1) through (3), above, may designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to the county.
Biochemical oxygen demand or BOD means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/L).
Biosolids means treated wastewater solids which can be used beneficially as an agricultural soil amendment.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building inspector means the Bartow County Building Inspector or a duly authorized representative.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
Categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard means any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317), which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405 through 471.
Chemical oxygen demand or COD means the quantity of oxygen, expressed in mg/L, required to chemically oxidize material in a waste sample or wastewater sample, under specific conditions of an oxidizing agent, temperature, and time. COD results are not necessarily related to BOD results.
Commissioner means the Commissioner of Bartow County.
County means Bartow County or the Bartow County Commissioner.
Combined sewer means a sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
Compatible pollutant means biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, fecal coliform bacteria, and any additional pollutant identified in the POTW's NPDES permit which the POTW is designed to treat and does remove to a substantial degree.
Control authority means the county water department.
Direct discharge means the discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to the waters of the state.
Environmental Protection Agency or EPA means the Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the regional water management division director, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
Existing source means any source of discharge, the construction or operation of which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter promulgated in accordance with Section 307 of the Act.
Flow proportional composite sample means a sample consisting of several individual portions in which each portion of the sample is proportionate to the flow and combined to form a representative sample.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
General pretreatment regulations means the General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution, published in the Federal Register, 40 CFR 403, on June 26, 1978, and any revisions thereto.
Grab sample means a sample which is taken from a wastestream without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period not to exceed 15 minutes.
Incompatible pollutant means any pollutant other than a compatible pollutant.
Indirect discharge or discharge means the introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under Section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
Industrial user means a source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
Industrial wastes means the liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limit means the maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
Interference means a discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharge from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its biosolids processes, use or disposal; and therefore, is a cause of a violation of the county's NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued hereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations; Section 405 of the act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II, commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
Mass emissions rate means the weight of material discharged to the POTW during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the mass emission rate shall mean pounds per day of the particular constituent or combination of the constituents.
Medical waste means isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
National pollution discharge elimination systems (NPDES) permit means a permit issued to POTW or an industry pursuant to Section 402 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. 1342.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
New source means:
(1)
Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there is (or may be) discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with the section, provided that:
a.
The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
b.
The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should be considered.
(2)
Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of subsection (1) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(3)
Construction of a new source, as defined under this paragraph, has commenced if the owner or operator has:
a.
Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site construction program:
1.
Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or equipment; or
2.
Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
b.
Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
Noncontact cooling water means water used for cooling which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or finished product.
Pass through means a discharge which exits the POTW into the waters of the United States in quantities or concentration which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the county's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
Person means any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representative, agents or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental entities.
pH means a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in standard units.
Pollution means the manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
Pollutant means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
Pretreatment means the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment requirements means any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
Pretreatment standards or standards means pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
Prohibited discharge standards or prohibited discharges means absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in section 58-75 of this article.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Publicly-owned treatment works or POTW means a "treatment works" as defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned by the county, or by the City of Cartersville or any supplier of wastewater treatment for Bartow County. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, controlled by public authority.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and in which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all publicly-owned sewer facilities, including treatment facilities, sewer lines, and all related or connected facilities.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Significant industrial user means:
(1)
A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
(2)
A user that:
a.
Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler blow down wastewater);
b.
Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or
c.
Is designated as such by the county on the basis [of] potential for adversely affecting the POTW.
(3)
Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (2) has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the county may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6) determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
Slug load or slug means any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section 74-275 of this article.
Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code means a classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States Office of Management and Budget.
Stormwater means any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snow melt.
Superintendent means the superintendent of the Bartow County Water Department, or a duly authorized representative.
Suspended solids means the total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or liquid, and which is removable by laboratory filtering.
Surcharge means a fee associated with the discharge of BOD and/or TSS in excess of 300 mg/L to the POTW. The fee is calculated based on the pounds of pollutant discharged to the POTW. Any sample found to be in excess of 850 mg/L BOD or 1,500 mg/L TSS may be assessed a fine in addition to being surcharged.
Toxic pollutant means any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of 33 U.S.C. 1317.
User or industrial user means a source of indirect discharge.
Wastewater means liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
Wastewater treatment plant or treatment plant means that portion of the POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 3)
Sec. 74-254. - Charges.
(a)
A permit from the county shall be obtained before a sewer tap is made, and such permit shall indicate that the prescribed fee has been paid.
(b)
Any unauthorized person making a tap shall be punished upon conviction of an offense.
(c)
Nonwater customers and those obtaining water from wells using the county sewer system are required to meter well pumpage and shall be charged the regular sewer service fees. The property owners shall pay the cost of the meter and installation by the water department.
(d)
Fees associated with excessive discharges of conventional pollutants (biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), chemical oxygen demand (COD)) may or may not be punitive as deemed by the county.
(e)
Fines for conventional pollutants (BOD, TSS, COD) can be waived, provided no harm occurred to the publicly-owned treatment works (POTW), at the discretion of the county on a case by case basis.
(f)
Wastewater discharges between 300 mg/L and 850 mg/L of BOD will be assessed a surcharge. Enforcement shall be initiated for BOD discharges exceeding 850 mg/L. Wastewater discharges between 300 mg/L and 1,500 mg/L of TSS will be assessed a surcharge. Enforcement shall be initiated for TSS discharges exceeding 1,500 mg/L.
(1)
BOD:
a.
0—300 mg/L 0.00/lb.
b.
301—850 mg/L 0.14/lb.
c.
851+ mg/L 0.14/lb., plus enforcement.
(2)
TSS:
a.
0—300 mg/L 0.00/lb.
b.
301—1,500 mg/L 0.16/lb.
c.
1,501+ mg/L 0.16/lb., plus enforcement.
(g)
For samples with an average COD value that is greater than two and one-half times average BOD surcharges will be based on COD. For samples with an average COD value that is less than two and one-half times average BOD, surcharges will be based BOD. Wastewater discharges between 750 mg/L and 2,500 mg/L will be assessed a surcharge on COD as applicable. Enforcement shall be initiated in addition to surcharge for discharges exceeding 2,500 mg/L.
(1)
COD:
a.
0—750 mg/L 0.00/lb.
b.
751—2,500 mg/L 0.05/lb.
c.
2,501+ mg/L 0.05/lb., plus enforcement.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 4)
Sec. 74-255. - Purpose and policy.
This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly-owned treatment works for the county and enables the county to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United States Code 1251, et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 403). The objectives of this article are:
(1)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants in the publicly-owned treatment works that will interfere with its operation.
(2)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly-owned treatment works that will pass through the publicly-owned treatment works, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the publicly-owned treatment works.
(3)
To protect both publicly-owned treatment works personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public.
(4)
To promote reuse and recycling of wastewater and treated sludge (biosolids) from the publicly-owned treatment works.
(5)
To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation, maintenance and improvement of the publicly-owned treatment works.
(6)
To enable the county to comply with its national pollutant discharge elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the publicly-owned treatment works is subject.
(7)
All violations of this article will be prosecuted in the magistrate court.
This article shall apply to all users of the publicly-owned treatment works. The article authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 5)
Sec. 74-256. - Administration.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the superintendent shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the superintendent maybe delegated by the superintendent to other county personnel.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 6)
Sec. 74-257. - Development requirements.
Any applicant for development or construction of any subdivision, or any commercial or industrial use, shall abide by this article, and the county water department development procedures, which are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this article. The applicant shall review other applicable ordinances including, but not limited to, the Bartow County Waste Treatment Ordinance [Code section 74, Article III] Bartow County Water Service and Conservation Ordinance [Code section 74-31 et seq.] and the Bartow County Zoning Ordinance [Code Appendix A], to determine if they are applicable to the particular development.
(Ord. of 12-15-2004(1), § I)
Secs. 74-258—74-270. - Reserved.
