ARTICLE VII. - LODGING TAX[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Local excise taxes on rooms, lodgings and accommodations, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 44-401. - District.
There is hereby established a special tax district coterminous with the territorial boundaries of the county, except for that portion of the county which lies within the territorial boundaries of a municipality located with the county which also levies an excise tax authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.1.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § II, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-402. - Levied.
Within the territorial limits of the special district, the county does hereby levy an excise tax of eight percent upon the furnishing for value to the public of any room, lodging, or accommodation furnished by any person or legal entity doing business in the county for operating a hotel, motel, inn, lodge, tourist camp, tourist cabin, travel trailer park, RV park or campground, or any other place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are regularly furnished.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § III, 1-23-2002; Ord. of 6-16-2010, § 1; Ord. of 4-13-2016, § I )
Sec. 44-403. - Exceptions.
The tax authorized by this article shall not apply to:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any persons who certify that they are staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of their home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this paragraph. For purpose of the exemption provided under this paragraph, a local government official or employee shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § IV, 1-23-2002; Ord. of 7-12-2017 , § II)
Sec. 44-404. - Registration of operator; certificate of authority to collect tax.
Every person engaging in or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel, motel, travel trailer park, or other facility providing accommodations to the public in this county shall immediately register with the county clerk on a form provided by the county clerk. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after January 23, 2002; but such privilege of registration after the imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business, and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the county clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner, if a natural person; in case of ownership by an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of ownership by a corporation, by an officer. The county clerk shall, after such registration, issue, without charge, a certificate of authority to each operator to collect the tax from the occupant. A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator. Each certificate shall state the name and location of the business to which it is applicable.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § VII, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-405. - Date due and payable.
All amount of taxes levied by this article shall be due and payable to the county monthly, on or before the 20th day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § VIII(a), 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-406. - Filing of return.
On or before the 20th day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the chief financial officer of the county, showing the gross rent, rent from permanent residents, taxable rent, amount of tax collected or otherwise due for the related period, and such other information as may be required by the chief financial officer.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § VIII(b), 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-407. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax. If the chief financial officer is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the county by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest. The amount of the determination of the tax due under this article shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Notice; method of service. The chief financial officer or his designated representatives shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by certified mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the county clerk.
(d)
Time limit for mailing notice. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § IX, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-408. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any person fails to make a return, the chief financial officer shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person, or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in this county which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the chief financial officer. Written notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in subsection 44-407(c).
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month, following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § X, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-409. - Expenditure.
(a)
(1)
An amount equal to the amount by which the total taxes collected under this article exceed the taxes which would be collected at a rate of three percent, but not to exceed two percent of the taxes collected, shall be expended through a contract with an entity authorized under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3) for the purpose of promoting tourism, conventions and trade shows except as provided in subsection (b);
(2)
An amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the total amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent shall be expended for promoting tourism, conventions, and trade shows by the destination marketing organization (as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2) designated by the county; and
(3)
The remaining amount of taxes collected that exceed the amount of taxes that would be collected at the rate of five percent which are not otherwise expended under subsection (2) of this section shall be expended for tourism product development.
(b)
The tax collected and remitted to the county from any lodge located within the county, which is operated under the jurisdiction of the department of natural resources, which regularly furnishes for value rooms, lodgings, or accommodations, as well as meals and conference or meeting facilities, shall only be expended for development, promotion, and advertising of such lodge or similar facility operated under the jurisdiction of the department of natural resources.
(c)
Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the entity to which the county has contracted for the promotion of tourism, conventions and trade shows shall provide to the county a budget detailing the expenditure of the funds provided under this section.
(d)
The entity to which the county has contracted for the promotion of tourism, conventions and trade shows shall provide to the county audit verification that funds provided by the county under this article have been used in conformity with the law and this article.
(e)
Proceeds of this tax shall be used in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(a)(3) and O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(b).
(Ord. No. 02-1, § V, 1-23-2002; Ord. of 6-15-2005(3), § 1; Ord. of 6-16-2010, § 2; Ord. of 4-13-2016, § I )
Sec. 44-410. - Deduction for collection.
Each person collecting the tax authorized by this article shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for, and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and paying the amount due, if the amount due is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from the state sales and use taxes under O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § VI, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-411. - Administration and enforcement.
(a)
Authority. The chief financial officer shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Recordkeeping by operators. Every operator renting guestrooms or travel trailer space in this county to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the chief financial officer may require.
(c)
Examination of records. The chief financial officer, or any person authorized in writing by the chief financial officer, may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator renting accommodations to a person, and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or, if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Filing of reports; contents. In the administration of this article, the chief financial officer may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having, in such person's or persons' possession or custody, information relating to rentals of accommodations which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the chief financial officer, when required by the chief financial officer, and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the date of occupancy, and such other information as the chief financial officer may require.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § XI, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-412. - Collection and withholding; tax credit.
(a)
Court action for delinquency. At any time within three years after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the chief financial officer may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction, in the name of the county, to collect the amount delinquent, together with interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees, and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Operator's sale or quitting of business. If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out his business or quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the chief financial officer showing that he has been paid, or a certificate stating the amount due.
(c)
Liability of purchaser for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold funds from the purchase price as required, he shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price.
(d)
Wrongful payment or collection; tax credit for overpayment. Whenever the amount of any tax or interest has been paid more than once or erroneously, or has been illegally collected or received by the chief financial officer under this article, it may be offset by the chief financial officer. If the operator or person determines that he has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has been determined by the chief financial officer, he will have three years from the date of payment to file a claim, in writing, stating the specific ground upon which the claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved by the chief financial officer, the excess amount paid to the county may be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person by whom it was paid or his administrators or executors, successors, or assigns.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § XII, 1-23-2002)
Sec. 44-413. - Penalties and remedies in addition to delinquent tax interest.
In addition to the interest due on any delinquent taxes as provided for in this article, the penalties provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-1 et seq. governing late filings, failure to file, and fraudulent filings, and the remedies provided for therein, are incorporated in this section and made a part of this article as if set out in full.
(Ord. No. 02-1, § XIII, 1-23-2002)
Secs. 44-414—44-470. - Reserved.
