DIVISION 10. - SERVICE UTILITIES

Sec. 18-346. - Utility approval required.
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system which is regulated by the standard building codes for which a permit is required, until released by the building official.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-347. - Temporary utility connection.
The building official may authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for the use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-348. - Disconnection in emergency.
The building official shall have the power to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by the standard building codes, in the case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The building official shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
(Ord. of 1-3-2007(1))
Sec. 18-349. - Landlord's duties regarding utilities.
(a)
Definitions. [The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Landlord shall mean a property owner, lessor, or manager who is providing rental or leased housing to a tenant.
Tenant means a person who occupies a premises rented or leased from a landlord.
Utilities shall mean natural gas service, electric service, water service and/or sewer service.
(b)
Prohibition. When utilities are being provided or controlled by the landlord to the tenant (typically by being included in the lease or rental rate), it shall be unlawful for any landlord to intentionally disconnect or cause to be disconnected any utility service to a tenant unless the landlord has properly executed a writ of possession.
(c)
Violation. Any violation of this Code section shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500.00. In addition to or in lieu of a fine, the magistrate court shall be authorized to impose jail terms of up to 60 days.
( Ord. of 11-4-2015, § I )
Secs. 18-350—18-380. - Reserved.
