DIVISION 3. - PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER

Sec. 74-301. - Pretreatment facilities.
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in section 74-275 of this article within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be acceptable to the superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall be submitted to the superintendent for review and shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the superintendent under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 19)
Sec. 74-302. - Additional pretreatment measures.
(a)
Whenever deemed necessary, the superintendent may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
(b)
The superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
(c)
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception units shall be of the type and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their expense. Except where more complete pretreatment may be required, grease, oil, and/or sand interceptors shall be provided at all service stations, commercial or industrial food-handling establishments, feed mills, and at any other commercial or industrial establishment or any institution at which such devices are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease and/or oil in excessive amounts, any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be maintained by the owner. The owner shall provide to the superintendent or his designee, upon demand, proof, which consists of written evidence showing frequency of interceptor cleaning. The frequency for maintaining these interceptors shall, at the minimum, be as follows based on the classifications listed:
Grease Trap
EXPAND
Class Description of user Pumping frequency*
I Food establishments with an under-the-counter grease trap or those that serve less than 100 customers per day. Two times per year.
II Food establishments with an inground grease trap(s) up to 2,000 gallons' capacity and/or serve more than two meal times per day and serves less than 500 customers per day. Four times per year.
III Food establishments with an inground grease trap(s) in excess of 1,000 gallon capacity and/or serve three meal times per day or more than 500 customers per day. 12 times per year.
  The superintendent may in writing increase or decrease user's grease trap pumping frequency on a case-by-case based on actual observation of material buildup in the grease trap.
* Pumping requires the complete removal of the entire content of the trap with no reintroduction of any portion of the waste into the trap. The county may seek additional enforcement action in accordance with the administrative and enforcement remedies of this article.
(d)
Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter. Where preliminary treatment of flow equalizing facilities are provided for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(1)
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, vault or other structure in the building sewer in which the county may install such meters, sampling facilities and other appurtenances as necessary to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes.
(2)
Such structure as indicated in subsection (a) shall:
a.
Be accessibly and safely located;
b.
Be protected against vandalism;
c.
Provide an accessible water source;
d.
Use, when possible, a cover or lid which is easily removed and is of reduced weight;
e.
Be supplied with suitable electrical current for the metering and sampling equipment to be installed;
f.
Provide suitable lighting;
g.
Provide adequate enclosure;
h.
Have unrestricted accessibility to the county and its appointed personnel; and
i.
Be constructed in accordance with standard details approved and provided by the superintendent.
(3)
The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him to be safe and accessible at all times.
(e)
Industrial users may be required by the superintendent to install in their effluent waste system immediately prior to entrance into the county sewer, a stainless steel automatic mechanically cleaned bar screen of either a vibration or brush type. For textile operations, the mesh shall be fine enough to prevent the passage of lint, and for other operations the mesh of the screen may not exceed one-half inch. The owner must maintain the screening facility in proper working condition at all times.
(f)
Industrial users shall design, construct, operate and maintain other wastewater pretreatment facilities whenever necessary to achieve compliance with the limitations in wastewater strength set forth in section 74-277 of this article, to meet applicable categorical standards, or to meet any other wastewater condition or limitation contained in the user's wastewater discharge permit. These pretreatment facilities shall be maintained by the owner and at his expense in proper working condition at all times.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 20)
Sec. 74-303. - Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
At least once every two years, the superintendent shall evaluate whether each significant industrial user needs to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the superintendent may develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
(1)
Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch discharges;
(2)
Description of stored chemical;
(3)
Procedures for immediately notifying the superintendent of any accidental or slug discharge, as required by section 74-376 of this article; and
(4)
Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 21)
Sec. 74-304. - Hauled wastewater.
(a)
Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations designated by the superintendent, and at such times as are established by the superintendent. Such waste shall not violate the general sewer use requirements of this article. Septic tank waste haulers shall be required to obtain wastewater discharge permits from the superintendent.
(b)
The superintendent shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this article.
(c)
Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations designated by the superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior consent of the superintendent. The superintendent may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The superintendent may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
(d)
Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The form shall identify the type of industry known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. of 12-17-2003(2), § 22)
Secs. 74-305—74-320. - Reserved.
