Chapter 50 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Courts, ch. 22; traffic and vehicles, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 50-1. - Reserved.
Sec. 50-2. - Fire hydrants—Removal of water without authorization.
No water shall be taken from any fire hydrant located in the unincorporated areas of the county without authorization from the county.
Note— Formerly § 74-2.
Sec. 50-3. - Same—Malicious damage.
It shall be unlawful to maliciously damage, deface, break, or destroy any fire hydrant in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Note— Formerly § 74-3.
Secs. 50-4—50-70. - Reserved.
Editor's note— At the direction of the county, former Art. II, §§ 50-31—50-39, have been moved to ch. 44, art. IV, §§ 44-331—44-339.
ARTICLE II. - UNREGULATED MARIJUANA SUBSTITUTES

Sec. 50-71. - Definitions.
The following words as used in this section shall have the following prescribed meaning:
Person shall mean and refer to any individual, natural person, partnership, firm, corporation, joint venture, proprietorship, business entity, association, agency, group, organization or group of persons or any other entity.
Radical shall mean and refer to a group of atoms that enters into and goes out of chemical combination without change and that forms one of the fundamental constituents of a molecule.
Synthetic cannabinoids shall mean and refer to those certain compounds or substances (also commonly known or referred to in general as "Spice" or "K2") that mimic, emulate or simulate the effects of marijuana or the active ingredient in marijuana (Tetrahydrocannabinol) that are specifically listed and identified as Schedule 1 controlled substances under O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-25(3) and 16-13-25(12), any amendments thereto, or any other code section of the Official Code of Georgia.
Substituent shall mean an atom or group that replaces another atom or group in a molecule.
Unregulated marijuana substitutes shall mean and refer to any compounds or substances, whether described as tobacco herbs, incense spice, aromatherapy incense, bath salts, potpourri, herbal smoking blends, plant food, aromatic substance that may cause a sense of euphoria, novelty aromatic, or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the compound or substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, injected, inhaled or ingested by humans or for human consumption, that
(1)
Is not currently or hereinafter regulated as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under Georgia law (including the following Georgia law: O.C.G.A. § 16-13-25, any amendments to O.C.G.A. § 16-13-25 including the 2012 Act of the Georgia General Assembly known as "Chase's Law", and the emergency rule of the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy enacted on June 12, 2012 declaring five specific additional compounds as "synthetic cannabinoids" that are Schedule 1 controlled substances under Georgia law),
(2)
Is privately compounded, with the specific intent to circumvent the criminal penalties for synthetic cannabinoids under Georgia law, and
(3)
Emulate, simulate or mimic the effects of marijuana or synthetic cannabinoids through chemical changes such as the addition, subtraction or rearranging of a radical or the addition, subtraction or rearranging of a substituent.
(Ord. of 9-11-2013, § I)
Sec. 50-72. - Prohibition on the sale, manufacture, use, delivery, purchase, possession or distribution of unregulated marijuana substitutes.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use, sell, give, manufacture with intent to sell, possess, purchase, deliver, transport or distribute any unregulated marijuana substitutes within the limits of Bartow County.
(Ord. of 9-11-2013, § I)
Sec. 50-73. - Violations.
Any person violating this section as it exists or may be amended, upon conviction, shall be punished by the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 60 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of this section shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 9-11-2013, § I)
Sec. 50-74. - Other remedies.
In addition to or in lieu of any other remedy, the county may seek injunctive, mandamus or other appropriate relief in superior court to enjoin or prevent a violation of any provision of this article. Such action may also seek any other costs associated with the action to enjoin or prevent any violation of any provision of this article. The county shall be entitled to its reasonable attorney's fees and costs for bringing an action in superior court wherein any relief is granted or fine assessed. Conviction for a violation of this section may also result in the county revoking any person's privilege of operating a business within the limits of the county.
(Ord. of 9-11-2013, § I)
Sec. 50-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - DISORDERLY CONDUCT

Sec. 50-76. - Disorderly conduct defined.
A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when such person commits any of the following:
(1)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(2)
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(3)
Without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say words which, as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words";
(4)
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace;
(5)
Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another;
(6)
Interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of violence;
(7)
Obstructs, either singularly or together with other persons the flow of the vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by the Sheriff or other lawful authority known to be such;
(8)
Is in a public place under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or drug in such condition as to be unable to exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others;
(9)
Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by any authorized official of Bartow County or of the Bartow County School System known to be such;
(10)
Damages, befouls, or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive condition;
(11)
Makes, or causes to be made, any loud, boisterous, or unreasonable noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby or near to any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square, or common whereby the public peace is broken or disturbed.
(12)
Smokes (meaning inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted tobacco product including cigarettes, cigars and pipe tobacco) within any establishment, facility or outdoor area that the owner, operator, manager or other person in control has designated as a nonsmoking place. To be designated a "nonsmoking place" requires placement of either a sign saying "No smoking" or equivalent language or a sign containing the international "no smoking" symbol consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a bar across it.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § I, 9-20-1995; Ord. of 11-4-2015, § I )
Sec. 50-77. - Jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction over violations of this chapter shall be in the Magistrate Court of Bartow County, and may be tried upon citation or upon accusation. Jurisdiction over violations of this ordinance by persons under the age of 17 years shall be in the Juvenile Court of Bartow County and may be tried upon citation or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § II, 9-20-1995)
Sec. 50-78. - Enforcement.
(a)
Commencement of prosecution by citation.
(1)
Prosecutions for violation of this article upon citation shall be commenced by the completion, signing, and service of a citation by a deputy sheriff or other authorized officer. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused; a copy shall be promptly filed with the court.
(2)
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by a deputy sheriff or other authorized officer who completes and serves it.
(3)
Any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall thereafter be arrested on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his or her future appearance.
(4)
The district attorney, county attorney, or another attorney designated by Bartow County may act as prosecuting attorney for violations of this article.
(b)
Cash bonds.
(1)
The chief magistrate shall, by written order, establish the amount of a cash bond for the personal appearance in court of any person charged with a violation of this article.
(2)
The magistrate shall designate the officer or officers authorized to accept cash bonds.
(3)
In no event shall any officer or agent who is authorized to issue citations, be authorized to accept a cash bond at the time of or in conjunction with the issuance of any citation.
(4)
The officer accepting the cash bond shall issue a receipt for the bond of the person charged with a violation.
(5)
Any person who has a case by citation but has not been arrested may, but shall not be required to, give a cash bond for his personal appearance in court for trial. If a person who has given a cash bond fails to appear for trial, failure to appear shall be deemed to constitute a guilty plea and such cash bond shall be forfeited upon the call of the case for trial. It shall not be necessary for the county to take any further action to forfeit the cash bond. Forfeiture of a cash bond shall be deemed to constitute imposition and payment of a fine, and shall be a bar to a subsequent prosecution of the accused for the same violation of this article. The court may, however, in any case enter an order pursuant to which a bond forfeiture shall not be deemed to constitute imposition of a sentence, and subsequent prosecution shall not be barred; and in any such case, the amount of the bond forfeited shall be credited against any fine subsequently imposed.
(6)
It shall be the duty of the clerk of the magistrate court to furnish the officer or officers authorized under the order with a book of blank receipts consecutively numbered in triplicate and readily distinguishable and identifiable. The receipts shall be completed by the officers when accepting a cash bond so as to show the name of the person cited or arrested, the date of citation or arrest, nature of the offense, amount of cash bond given, and the name of the receiving officer. The receiving officer shall deliver a copy of the receipt to the person cited or arrested at the time the cash bond is given, and shall file the original, together with the cash bond, with the clerk of the magistrate court not later than the next succeeding business day following the date of issuance of the receipt.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § III, 9-20-1995)
Sec. 50-79. - Punishment.
(a)
Any person who violates this article may be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both.
(b)
In lieu of, or in addition to, any fine or incarceration, community service may be ordered by the court as punishment for a violation of this article. Said community service shall be not less than 20 hours but not more than 250 hours, which must be performed within one year from the date of conviction for a violation of this article.
(c)
Any person placed on community service or otherwise placed on probation for a violation of this article shall pay such supervisory fees as may be authorized by law.
(d)
In addition to any other fine and fees, the court is hereby authorized to assess a supervision fee in the amount of $100.00.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § IV, 9-20-1995)
Sec. 50-80. - Executions upon unpaid fines.
(a)
Execution may issue immediately upon any fine imposed by the court and not immediately paid.
(b)
The Sheriff of Bartow County shall receive and house all persons sentenced to confinement for contempt or arrested or sentenced to confinement for violation of said article.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § V, 9-20-1995)
Sec. 50-81. - Certiorari to superior court.
Review of convictions shall be by certiorari to the superior court, as provided by law.
(Ord. No. 95-2, § VI, 9-20-1995)
