Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Business and business regulations, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; authority to adopt rules and regulations relating to manufacture, sale and distribution of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-49.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage means and includes hard liquor, beer or other malt beverage, wine, or other alcohol that is consumed as a beverage.
Open container means any container from which its contents is immediately capable of being consumed or any container the seal of which has been broken.
(Code 1983, § 14-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Special authorization for alcoholic beverage license.
Any provisions of this Code to the contrary notwithstanding, no official or employee of the city, shall issue a license to any person authorizing the sale or handling of alcoholic or malt beverages within the corporate limits of the city, unless and until the issuance of such license shall have been expressly authorized by the council.
(Code 1983, § 5-4)
Sec. 6-3. - Presence of minor in establishment.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to be in any place where alcoholic beverages are served or consumed unless accompanied by a parent or guardian; and it shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any establishment to permit such violation.
(Code 1983, § 14-4)
Sec. 6-4. - Drinking, possessing in public.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or attempt to drink any spirituous, malt, or vinous liquors, or any other alcoholic beverage, from a can, bottle, cup, glass or any drinking container or to possess in an open can, bottle, cup, glass or any drinking container any spirituous, malt or vinous liquors, or any other alcoholic beverage on any street, sidewalk, other right-of-way, or designated public parking lot, whether public or private, or in any public building where the owner or manager desires that it not be consumed.
(Code 1983, § 14-3)
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 66.
Sec. 6-5. - Drinking, open containers.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage in a motor vehicle or while a passenger in or on a vehicle within the city.
(b)
An open container shall be considered to be in possession of the operator of a vehicle if the container is not locked in a locked glove compartment, locked trunk, or other locked nonpassenger area of the vehicle, or in a luggage storage area if the vehicle does not have a locked nonpassenger area.
(c)
An open container shall be considered to be in the possession of a passenger of a vehicle if the container is in the physical control of the passenger.
(d)
This section shall not apply to:
(1)
A passenger of a vehicle in which the driver is operating the vehicle pursuant to a contract to provide transportation for passengers and such driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to state law or any other state;
(2)
A passenger of a bus in which the driver holds a valid chauffeur's license pursuant to state law or any other state; or
(3)
A passenger of a self-contained motor home which is in excess of 21 feet in length.
(e)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess an open container of an alcoholic beverage in a parked motor vehicle, or any vehicle, within 1,000 feet of any playground or recreation park that is open to the public. And it shall further be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess such alcoholic beverage in a parked motor vehicle or any vehicle within 1,000 feet of a school, church, day care center, or any public facility that is used by children or young people less than 21 years of age on a regular organized basis.
(Ord. of 11-16-1989, § 14-5)
Sec. 6-6. - Sale of alcoholic beverages near churches, school buildings or other sites.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to knowing and intentionally sell or offer to sell any distilled spirits, any wine, or any malt beverages within 200 yards of any church building, school building, educational building, school grounds, daycare facility, or city-owned buildings.
(b)
This section shall prohibit the sale or offer to sell of distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages by licensees for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises within 200 yards of any church building, school building, educational building, school grounds, daycare facility, or city-owned building.
(c)
Any person violating this section shall be punished according to section 1-11
(Ord. of 11-3-2005)
Secs. 6-7—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCISE TAXES

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages required, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.
Sec. 6-31. - Imposed; amount.
Each wholesale dealer in malt beverages, distilled spirits, or wines (as those terms are defined in O.C.G.A. Title 3) shall pay an excise tax upon the wholesale of such beverages in the city at the following rates:
(1)
On distilled spirits, $0.22 per liter, and a proportionate tax at a like rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(2)
On malt beverages, where sold in or from a barrel or bulk container (commonly known as tap or draft beer), $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons; and where sold in bottles, cans, or other containers (except barrels or bulk containers), $0.05 per 12 ounces or $0.004166 per ounce.
(3)
On wine, $0.22 per liter, and a proportionate tax at a like rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-126)
Sec. 6-32. - Records of wholesale dealers.
Each wholesale dealer or distributor selling, shipping or delivering distilled spirits or alcoholic beverages to any retail dealer in the city, whether delivered to the retail dealer's place of business or elsewhere for resale in the city, shall keep true and correct records of all sales, shipments and deliveries of such beverages to each retail dealer in the city. Such records shall be preserved for a period of not less than six months and are to be made available on request for inspection by any duly authorized representative of the city.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-127)
Sec. 6-33. - Monthly report by wholesalers; remittance of monies collected.
As a condition to the privilege of carrying on business in the city, each wholesale dealer or distributor selling, shipping or delivering alcoholic beverages to any retail dealer in the city, whether delivered to the retail dealer's place of business or elsewhere for resale in the city, shall, on or before the tenth day of each calendar month, make a verified and comprehensive return to the city clerk showing all sales and deliveries of such beverages made to or for retail dealers in the city during the month immediately preceding the report. The report shall show the name and address of each retail dealer, the quantities delivered to each retail dealer, the size and type of containers, the computation of the amount of tax owed under the terms of this article, and such other information as may be required by the city. The report shall be accompanied by remittance to the city of all taxes due. Upon request of the city, the dealer or distributor shall also file with his monthly return a certified copy of his report of monthly sales to retailers made to the state department of revenue.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-128)
Sec. 6-34. - Tax cumulative.
The excise taxes provided for by this article shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now or in the future be imposed upon the business of selling alcoholic beverages at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-129)
Sec. 6-35. - Intent to tax maximum allowable by state law.
It is the intent behind this article to collect the maximum excise tax allowable by law upon the wholesale of alcoholic beverages as now or as hereafter prescribed by state law.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-130)
Sec. 6-36. - Failure to make report or remittance.
The failure to make a timely report and remittance under this article shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due, and a further penalty of ten percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof during which such report and remittance are not filed. If the failure to pay is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the city clerk in affidavit form attached to the return and remittance in within ten days of the due date, such payment may be accepted without penalty. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 20 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report. The failure to make a timely report or remittance or the filing of a false or fraudulent report constitutes grounds for the revocation of the business license issued by the city to the wholesale dealer.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-131)
Sec. 6-37. - City examination of records authorized.
For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any return required to be filed by this article, or to determine the amount of taxes due, any authorized representative of the city shall have free and complete access at all reasonable times to any books, papers, records, or other information bearing upon such return or taxes due.
(Ord. of 9-17-1998, § 5-132)
