THE CODE OF OGLETHORPE COUNTY, GEORGIA
____________
Published by
Order of the Board of Commissioners
Adopted in 2021
____________
COUNTY OFFICIALS
____________
Jay Paul
Chairman
____________
Phil Sanders
Andy Saxon
David R. Clark
William C. Brown
Tracy Norman
Board of Commissioners
____________
Charles M. Ferguson, Jr.
County Attorney
____________
Amy Forrester
County Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of Oglethorpe County, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 2008 Code, as supplemented through May 3, 2021, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the board of commissioners. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 2008 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Index
The index has been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the index itself which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Sandra S. Fox, Senior Code Attorney, and Amy Norton, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to county staff for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the county readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the county's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and Oglethorpe County, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and Oglethorpe County, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and Oglethorpe County, Georgia. 2021.
2021-04
State of Georgia
County of Oglethorpe
AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT THE CODE OF OGLETHORPE COUNTY, GEORGIA, 2021; TO REPEAL THE CODE OF OGLETHORPE COUNTY, GEORGIA, 2007, AS AMENDED; TO REPEAL INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR RELATED MATTERS
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Oglethorpe County, Georgia (hereinafter "Board of Commissioners") previously adopted The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007 in 2007 (hereinafter "2007 Code");
WHEREAS; the 2007 Code was amended in 2011 (hereinafter "2011 Amendment") to incorporate various ordinances which had been adopted by the Board of Commissioners after the adoption of the 2007 Code (the 2007 Code as amended by the 2011 Amendment is hereafter referred to as "The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended");
WHEREAS, additional ordinances have been adopted by the Board of Commissioners since the adoption of the 2011 Amendment;
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has determined to adopt a new code of ordinances which will recodify all previously adopted operative provisions of The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended and the ordinances which have been adopted since the adoption of the 2011 Amendment, and to repeal The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended; and
WHEREAS, the new code of ordinances shall be named The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2021;
NOW WHEREFORE the Board of Commissioners of Oglethorpe County hereby ordains that:
1.
The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2021, which code is attached hereto as Exhibit A, shall be and is hereby ADOPTED.
2.
The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended, shall be and is hereby repealed.
3.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed.
4.
The requirement set forth in Section 3-206(9)(C)(4) of Chapter 3 of The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended, that proposed ordinances be read at two (2) consecutive meetings is hereby waived with respect to this ordinance. Accordingly, the requirement that "[n]o ordinance shall be put on its final passage on the same day it is introduced" as set forth Section 3-206(9)(C)(3) of Chapter 3 of The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2007, as amended, is inapplicable to the adoption of this ordinance.
SO ORDAINED this 6 th   day of December , 2021.
OGLETHORPE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
EXPAND
/s/  Jay Paul
      Jay Paul, Chairman
      [SEAL]
ATTEST:  /s/ Amy Forrester
Amy Forrester, County Clerk
EXHIBIT A
The Code of Oglethorpe County, Georgia, 2021
