ARTICLE VI. - R-2 MIXED USE, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 6.01. - Statement of purpose.
The R-2 district is composed of certain areas where a mixture of site-built and manufactured, single-family residential structures is desirable or necessary. This district will be characterized by medium lot sizes and medium-density residential development.
Sec. 6.02. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district:
A.
Accessory building or use customarily incidental to any permitted use, when located on the same lot and not involving any business, profession, trade or occupation, provided all accessory buildings shall conform and be located as required in Sec. 4.10 of this chapter [appendix].
B.
Church.
C.
Garden.
D.
Guest home.
E.
Home occupation.
F.
Single-family, detached dwelling, both site-built and manufactured.
G.
Country store and/or gas station.
Sec. 6.03. - Conditional uses.
The following are conditional uses in the R-2 district:
A.
keeping of pet livestock and/or fowl pursuant to [section] 4.13C.
B.
Nursery school, kindergarten or day care facility provided all state licensing requirements are met.
C.
Public cemetery, provided a complete site development sketch is submitted with the application. The proposed site must be at least five acres and have an adequate buffer.
D.
Social or fraternal club lodge, union hall and other similar use.
E.
Temporary emergency construction and repair residence.
Sec. 6.04. - Area, bulk, and placement requirements.
EXPAND
R-2 Mixed Use, Single-Family Residential District
Minimum Lot Size Per Unit 1. Open Ditch Rd. (septic) 1.0 acre
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic) 1.0 acre
3. Curb and Gutter Rd. + H2O (septic) 1.0 acre
4. Curb and Gutter Rd. + H2O and sewer 1.0 acre
Minimum Lot Width at Setback 1. Open-Ditch Rd. (septic) 175 feet
2. Curb and Gutter Rd. (septic) 175 feet
3. Curb and Gutter Rd. + H2O (septic) 175 feet
4. Curb and Gutter Rd. + H2O and sewer 175 feet
Minimum Building Setbacks 1. Front Yard 80 feet
•Local Road 80 feet
•Collector Road 80 feet
•Arterial Road 80 feet
2. Rear Yard 50 feet
3. Side Yard 30 feet
  Notes.
•Lot length shall not be more than three times the lot width.
•In this district proposed lots in a new development adjacent or across the street from existing lots in a previously approved development shall be designed to have the same lot width, lot size and setbacks as the previously approved development. The purpose of this requirement is to ensure compatibility between existing and planned developments.
