Chapter 22 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - National Incident Management System (NIMS) adopted by reference.
modified
The county hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the unified command system as established under O.C.G.A. 38-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents, and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the county to train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Res. of 5-9-2004; Ord. of 5-9-2006)
Secs. 22-2—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CIVIL DEFENSE

Sec. 22-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Civil defense means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than the functions for which the state and federal governments are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by enemy nuclear attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by acts of nature, fire, explosion, civil disorders or other causes. Civil defense functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, law enforcement services, medical services, health services, rescue services, engineering services, warning services, communications, defense from radiological fallout, welfare services, evacuation (when and where necessary), emergency transportation, plant and utility protection, restriction of public utility services, and other functions related to protection and well being of the population of the county, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to preparation for and the carrying out of the functions set forth in this definition.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § I)
Sec. 22-32. - Penalties.
Any violation of any provision of this article, or any rule, order, or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § VI)
Sec. 22-33. - Office of the county civil defense director.
In agreement with the governing officials of cities and/or towns within the county, there is hereby established the county civil defense office. The chairperson and commissioners of the board of commissioners, with concurrence of the officials of cities and towns within the county, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of civil defense for the entire county. When appointed, the civil defense director is charged:
(1)
To represent the governing official of the county and cities and/or towns therein on matters pertaining to civil defense.
(2)
With assisting county and city officials in organizing county, and where required, city departments, for emergency operations.
(3)
With developing, in conjunction with other county departments, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 22-31. Such plan will be in consonant with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval and then to the state director for approval.
(4)
With maintaining the civil defense office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the county civil defense and disaster program including the rendering of required reports to the state civil defense office.
(5)
With rendering reports such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by governing officials, in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
With procuring, with authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
During periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials, with coordinating the activities of the county emergency operating center staff.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § II)
Sec. 22-34. - County civil defense organization.
(a)
Organizational structure by county departments and agencies. The county civil defense organization shall be established around existing county departments and agencies and the emergency functions listed in section 22-31 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Function
Civil defense office Emergency communications
Civil defense office Shelter planning
County planning department (assists)
County police department Attack warning service
Sheriff's department Emergency law enforcement service
County police department (assists)
Fire marshal's office Firefighting and rescue service
Health department Emergency health service and radiological defense
Family and children's services Emergency welfare services
Public works department Emergency engineering service
County purchasing department Logistics (resources management)
Civil defense office Emergency public information
Civil defense office Industrial and institution emergency planning
Civil defense office Coordination of training
  (b)
Responsibilities of department heads. Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the civil defense director to the board of commissioners for approval.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § II)
Sec. 22-35. - Emergency powers.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, or, in his absence, his legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to civil defense and to assume direct operational control over all civil defense forces.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn an property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give, or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county, and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary, to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § IV)
Sec. 22-36. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § V)
Sec. 22-37. - Liberality of construction.
This article shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § VII)
Sec. 22-38. - Effective date; conflicts.
This article is effective immediately and, where the provisions of this article are in conflict with existing local laws, the provisions of this article will govern and such provisions of existing laws which are in conflict are hereby rescinded.
(Res. of 12-1-1970, § VIII)
Secs. 22-39—22-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 22-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. Emergency management functions include, without limitation:
(1)
Firefighting services;
(2)
Police services (public safety);
(3)
Medical and health services;
(4)
Rescue;
(5)
Engineering;
(6)
Warning services;
(7)
Communications;
(8)
Defense from radiological, chemical, and other special weapons;
(9)
Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
(10)
Emergency welfare services;
(11)
Emergency transportation;
(12)
Nuclear power plant protection;
(13)
Temporary restoration of public service utility services; and
(14)
Other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the functions set forth in this definition (Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3).
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § I)
Sec. 22-62. - Local organization for emergency management.
In cases where a county has an organization for emergency management, such organization shall include participation by each city within the county unless the governing authority of any particular city elects to implement its own organization for emergency management. Any two or more of the above-mentioned political subdivisions may, with the approval of the director, contract with each other so as to form one emergency management organization for the entire area included in the bounds of the contracting political subdivisions. The executive officer or governing body of the political subdivision is authorized to nominate a local director to the director of emergency management who shall have the authority to make the appointment. Upon appointment, the local emergency management agency director shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and operations of the local organization for emergency management, subject to the direction and control of the executive officer or governing body and shall serve at the pleasure of such executive officer or governing body. The local director shall:
(1)
Maintain an emergency management office in a building owned or leased by the political subdivision, and the director or designee shall be available or on call at all times beyond working hours.
(2)
Develop, in conjunction with public and private agencies/organizations that have responsibility for designated emergency support functions, plans for responding to and recovering from disasters and/or emergencies.
(3)
Respond to emergency scenes, command posts, and operation centers.
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § II)
Sec. 22-63. - Reserved.
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § III)
Sec. 22-64. - Reserved.
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § IV)
Sec. 22-65. - Reserved.
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § V)
Sec. 22-66. - Local emergency management agency plan.
The county emergency management agency has developed, in partnership with local government and community agencies/organizations which have primary responsibility for emergency support functions, an approved emergency management plan. A copy of this plan and/or major revisions are being submitted to the state emergency management agency by the local emergency management agency director, in coordination with the undersigned local government officials or legally appointed successors. It is understood that the state emergency management agency will review this plan for compliance with all federal and state requirements.
(Res. of 8-12-2003, § VI)
