ARTICLE III. - INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS

Sec. 2-121. - Availability.
All county records, except those which by order of a court or by law are prohibited from being opened to inspection by the general public, shall be open for personal inspection of any citizen at a reasonable time during business hours at the principal office of the county.
Sec. 2-122. - Determination of accessibility.
The custodian of the public records shall have a reasonable time, not to exceed three business days, to determine whether or not the request of the records is subject to access under state law.
Sec. 2-123. - Supervision.
All inspection, extraction and copying of public records, instruments and documents shall only be done under the supervision of the lawful custodian of the record or a designated assistant.
Sec. 2-124. - Locale of work.
All work must be done in the county office where the records sought are maintained, or at such other places as the board of commissioners may designate.
Sec. 2-125. - Determination of fees.
The custodian or designated assistant shall charge the person requesting such information with the actual costs of providing such information based upon a pro rata breakdown of such employee's hourly rate of pay or such rate of compensation as can be otherwise agreed upon by the person making the photocopies and the custodian for his services or the services of a deputy in supervising the work before such information can be released.
Sec. 2-126. - Photocopying fee.
(a)
Intent and purpose of section. The intent and purpose of this section shall be a reimbursement of costs incurred by the county and is not a charge for county services.
(b)
Cost of photocopying. The cost of photocopying shall be a rate as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the county clerk.
Sec. 2-127. - Disposition of funds.
All funds collected under this article shall be deposited in the general funds of the county and shall not be retained by any employee.
Secs. 2-128—2-150. - Reserved.
