Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Adoption of Code; name.
The codification of resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances passed by the board of commissioners is adopted as "The Code of Marion County, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Marion County Code."
Sec. 1-2. - Incorporation of resolutions, etc.
Any resolution, general resolution or ordinance not presently included in The Code of Marion County, Georgia, and passed subsequent to the preparation of such codification in automatically included and incorporated herein by reference.
Sec. 1-3. - Form of Code; repository; maintenance.
A copy of The Code of Marion County, Georgia, shall be kept on file in the office of the clerk to the board of commissioners, preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form as the county clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of the county clerk or someone authorized by the county clerk to insert in their designated places all resolutions, general resolutions and ordinances which indicate the intention of the board of commissioners to make the same a part of The Code of Marion County, Georgia, when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from The Code of Marion County, Georgia, all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the board of commissioners. This copy of The Code of Marion County, Georgia, shall be available for all persons desiring to examine the same and shall be considered The Code of Marion County, Georgia.
Sec. 1-4. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all resolutions and ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners or the context clearly requires otherwise:
General. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Board of commissioners. The term "board of commissioners" means the board of commissioners of Marion County, Georgia.
Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be sufficient.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Marion County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Commissioner. The term "commissioner" means one or more members of the board of commissioners.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County, the county. The term "county" or "the county" means the County of Marion, State of Georgia.
County clerk. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the term "county clerk" means the person employed by the board of commissioners to fulfill the duties of clerk of the board of commissioners as then defined.
Day. The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Joint authority. All words giving joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers, except when such words are used to grant authority to the board of commissioners.
Keeper or proprietor. The terms "keeper" or "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Law. The term "law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state, the resolutions of the county, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
May. The term "may" is permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must. The term "must" is mandatory.
Names of officers and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of Marion County" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. The word "or" may be read "and," and the word "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Penal resolutions, ordinances. The rules of construction and definitions of terms as contained in the penal code of the state, insofar as they can be made applicable, are hereby adopted as governing the penal ordinances or resolutions of the county.
Person. The term "person" includes a natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, club, company, business, trust and any other group acting as a unit, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it means place.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Road or street. The term "road" or "street" includes all roads, streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places, squares, curbs or other public ways in this county which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so designated in any law of this state.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list maintained in the county clerk's office which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Seal. The term "seal" means the county seal.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sheriff. The term "sheriff" means the sheriff of Marion County, Georgia.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature or subscription. The terms "signature" or "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State, the state. The terms "state" or "the state" mean the State of Georgia.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week of seven days.
Written or in writing. The terms "writing" or "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-5. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - References to titles of officers, employees, public bodies.
Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the county.
Sec. 1-8. - Interpretation of language.
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Sec. 1-9. - Grammatical interpretation.
The following grammatical rules shall apply unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is intended:
(1)
Gender. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter genders.
(2)
Singular and plural. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the singular, unless manifestly inapplicable.
(3)
Tenses. Words used in the present tense include the past and the future tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
Sec. 1-10. - Causing, permitting, abetting or concealing prohibited act.
Whenever in the ordinances of the county any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the fact of such act or omission.
Sec. 1-11. - Construction of provisions.
The provisions of the resolutions or ordinances of the county and all proceedings under them are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
Sec. 1-12. - Effect of repeal or expiration.
(a)
The repeal of a resolution or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the resolution expired and shall not repeal the repealing clause of a resolution or revive any resolution or ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
(b)
When a resolution or ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the previous resolution or ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
Sec. 1-13. - Matters not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the resolution or ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following preexisting matters:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any resolution or ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any resolution or ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(6)
Any resolution or ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county.
(7)
Any appropriation resolution or ordinance.
(8)
Any resolution or ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term.
(9)
Any resolution or ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(10)
Any resolution or ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat.
(11)
Any resolution or ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county.
(12)
The administrative resolutions or ordinances of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(13)
Any resolution or ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code.
(14)
Any resolution or ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the county.
(b)
No such resolution or ordinance shall be construed to revive any resolution or ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent resolution or ordinance which is repealed by this chapter. All such resolutions or ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Provisions considered continuations of existing resolutions.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as resolutions or ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-15. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared at least on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of resolutions or ordinances passed by the board of commissioners during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest resolution or ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in resolutions and parts of resolutions included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the resolution or ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this resolution" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the resolution or ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of resolution or ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of resolution material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-16. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby, unless so authorized by resolution or ordinance or other official act of the board of commissioners. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-17.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-17. - General penalty; continuing violations; authority granted to court.
(a)
O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 gives the board of commissioners, for the purpose of protecting and preserving the public health, safety and welfare, authorization to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, violations of which ordinances may be punished by fine or imprisonment or both.
(b)
The Georgia General Assembly, in 1991, amended O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, relating to ordinances for governing and policing unincorporated areas of the county, so as to increase the maximum fine from $500.00 to $1,000.00.
(c)
O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 gives jurisdiction over violations of county ordinances to the magistrate court of the county.
(d)
O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20 is hereby incorporated as a part of the Code of Marion County, Georgia.
(e)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required and the failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county prison or in the county jail and work and labor on the streets or public works of the county, whether within or without the corporate limits, not exceeding 180 days or both a fine and sentence of imprisonment and labor and all sentences may be in the alternative and fines may be imposed with the alternative of sentence to imprisonment and labor if the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of this Code or of any resolution or ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
The judge of the magistrate court shall have the power and authority to:
(1)
Impose upon persons convicted in the magistrate court the fines provided for in this Code, the ordinances of the county, or as otherwise provided by law, with the alternative of other punishment allowed by law, if such fines are not paid;
(2)
Sentence such person to community service work; or
(3)
Impose a sentence consisting of any combination of the penalties provided for in this section.
(g)
The judge of the magistrate court shall have full power and authority to declare the forfeiture of bonds given by offenders for their appearance before the court upon the offender's failure to appear as provided for in such bond. The procedure for the forfeiture of such bonds shall be as is provided for the forfeiture of bonds and recognizance set forth in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70 et seq.
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers an prosecuting officials, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; additional penalty assessments for jail construction and staffing, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-93 et seq.; punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; deposit of drivers license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; payments to peace officers annuity and benefit fund from revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.; alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(d).
Sec. 1-18. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
