Chapter 62 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 62-1. - Adoption of uniform rules of the road.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-395, as amended, known as the uniform rules of the road, are adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the county with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
State Law reference— Adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 62-2. - Parental responsibility.
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 16 years to permit, whether knowingly or through ineffective control or supervision, such minor to violate any provision of this Code or state law regarding the operation of vehicles.
Sec. 62-3. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the roads of the county may become congested upon occasions of parades, at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the sheriff, his lawful deputies or other traffic law enforcement officers may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts, and any person who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
Secs. 62-4—62-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OPERATION OF VEHICLES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 62-31. - Traffic, speed, etc., zones; signs and traffic control devices.
(a)
Upon approval of the county commission, the county sheriff is authorized to designate and maintain by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices:
(1)
Crosswalks at intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway.
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians.
(3)
Traffic lanes.
(4)
Speed, parking, truck or other traffic control zones.
(5)
Stop, yield, one-way and other directional devices.
(6)
Any other sign, marking, device or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the roads and streets of the county.
(b)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the state transportation board. All signs and signals required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the county. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official traffic control devices of the county.
(c)
The county clerk shall keep and maintain an accurate official map setting out all traffic zones, markings, signs and other traffic control devices. The map and any amendments or changes thereto shall be adopted by the county commission and the map shall be known as the official traffic control map of the county. An official copy thereof shall be kept in the office of the county clerk and shall be available to the public; copies certified by the county clerk shall be admissible in court as proof of the location of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device.
(d)
No person shall be charged with violating a traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device unless appropriate signs, markings or devices are in fact operating or in existence on the streets involved.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established hereunder shall be a violation of this Code.
Sec. 62-32. - Covering of loads.
No person shall operate or load any vehicle on the public streets and roads of this county unless the vehicle is constructed, loaded and securely covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping or shifting in such a manner as to create a safety hazard or in such a manner so as to litter the streets and roads of the county.
Sec. 62-33. - Parking in deceleration or acceleration lanes prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile, truck, bus, truck tractor, trailer, tractor, trailer combination, motorcycle, moped, or other motor vehicle within or upon the deceleration or acceleration lanes lying in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(b)
Deceleration and acceleration lanes shall be defined for the purpose of this section as those strips of pavement lying adjacent to and to the east of the northbound lanes of traffic, adjacent to and to the west of the southbound lanes of traffic, adjacent to and north of the west bound lanes of traffic and adjacent to and south of the east bound lanes of traffic which are not part of the regular roadway but afford access into and out of the driveways and side roads along the highway.
(c)
Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a violation of a county ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the municipal court. A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-17.
Sec. 62-34. - Regulation of offroad vehicles.
(a)
Definition. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Offroad vehicle means any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain and not intended for use predominantly on public roads. The term "offroad vehicle" includes, but is not limited to:
(1)
Four-wheel drive vehicles or low pressure tire vehicles;
(2)
Two-wheel vehicles, except that the term "offroad vehicle" excludes any military, fire or law enforcement vehicles;
(3)
Any vehicles used exclusively on farms and other self-propelled equipment for:
a.
Harvesting and transportation of forest products;
b.
Clearing land for planting;
c.
Utility and maintenance;
d.
Earth-moving construction or mining;
e.
Self-propelled lawn mowers, garden tractors while such vehicles are being used exclusively for their designed purposes.
(b)
Finding of fact; purpose. The rapid increase in the use of offroad vehicles and their growing impact upon the aspects of the public interest are matters of concern to the citizens of the county. This section is enacted to promote the safe use of offroad vehicles, to protect the wildlife and natural resources of the county, and to guarantee the availability of various forms of recreation to all citizens of the county.
(c)
Conditions for operation.
(1)
Any person operating an offroad vehicle under the following conditions within the county are deemed to be in violation of this section and subject to penalties provided in this section:
a.
Without operative brakes or without mufflers or other silencing equipment;
b.
On any private property without the express written permission of the owner of the property or his agent.
(2)
Offroad vehicles shall not be driven on state or county roads or their rights-of-way.
(d)
Enforcement and penalty. All peace officers of the sheriff's department shall enforce the provisions of this section. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of the amount of $100.00 and/or 30 days in jail, or any part thereof for first offense. Upon a conviction of a second offense, the defendant shall be fined $250.00 and/or 60 days in jail, or any part thereof. Upon conviction of a third offense, the defendant shall be fined $1,000.00 and/or 90 days in jail, or any part thereof.
(Res. of 3-9-2004)
Secs. 62-35—62-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SPEED REGULATIONS

Sec. 62-51. - Speed detection devices.
(a)
The county is authorized to use speed detection devices for the purpose of traffic control on the roads and streets in the county.
(b)
Such speed detection devices shall be used only for the purpose of public safety and traffic control, and shall not be used for the purpose of raising revenue.
(Res. of 5-8-2007)
