ARTICLE XXI: - OFF-STREET PARKING AND SERVICE FACILITIES STANDARDS

Section 1: - Purpose and Intent
This Standard covers specifications for off-street parking and service facilities in the City. Requirements for such facilities are specified by zoning district in the City of Butler Zoning Resolution. That Ordinance refers the reader to this Standard for specifications of required facilities.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 2: - General Standards for Parking Space Design.
A.
Parking Spaces Must Not Be Reduced. Off-street parking spaces must not be reduced below the minimum required number for the use or facility to which they are assigned.
B.
Drainage, Construction, and Maintenance. All off-street parking, loading, and service areas must be drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties and/or public streets and must be constructed of materials which will assure a surface resistant to erosion. All such areas must be at all times maintained at the expense of the owners in a clean, orderly, and dust-free condition to the extent that it does not create a nuisance.
C.
Separation from Walkways, Sidewalks and Streets. All off-street parking, loading, and service areas must be separated from walkways, sidewalks, and streets by curbing or other suitable protective device.
D.
Parking Area Design. Parking stalls must have a minimum width of nine and one-half (9½) feet and length of eighteen (18) feet. There must be provided adequate interior driveways to connect each parking space with a public right-of-way. Interior driveways must be at least twenty-four (24) feet wide where used with ninety (90) degree angle parking, at least eighteen (18) feet wide where used with parallel parking. Where there is no parking, interior driveways must be at least twelve (12) feet wide for one-way traffic movement and at least twenty-four (24) feet wide for two-way traffic.
E.
Handicap Parking Requirements. Handicapped spaces shall be provided in accordance with the following scale:
EXPAND
Total Parking Requirements Handicapped Spaces Required
Up to 25 1
26—50 2
51—75 3
76—100 4
101—150 5
151—200 6
201—300 7
301—400 8
401—500 9
500+ 2% of total required
  F.
Joint Parking Facilities. Two (2) or more adjacent uses of the same or different types may provide joint parking facilities as long as the number of off-street parking spaces are not less than the sum of the individual requirements for each use.
G.
Pavement Markings and Signs. Each off-street parking space must be clearly marked, and directional arrows or signs must be provided wherever necessary. Markers, directional arrows, and signs must be properly maintained so as to ensure their maximum efficiency.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 3: - Number of Parking Spaces Required
Off-street parking space must be provided and maintained as specified in the following schedule. For uses not specifically listed here, the parking requirements for the listed use most similar to the unlisted use in question, as determined by the Administrative Officer, will apply. Parking requirements by use are as follows:
A.
Apartment or other multi-family dwelling, Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit.
B.
Auditorium, stadium, assembly hall, gymnasium, theater, community recreation center, or church. Whichever of the following three (3) standards is the greatest:
1.
One (1) space per four (4) fixed seats in largest assembly room or area, or;
2.
One (1) space for each forty (40) square feet of floor area available for the seats, in the largest room
3.
One (1) space per each one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor area.
C.
Automobile fueling station. Two (2) spaces (in addition to services area) for each pump and grease rack, but not less than four (4) spaces.
D.
Automobile sales and repair, service station, car wash. Two (2) spaces (in addition to service area) for each pump and grease rack, but not less than four (4) spaces plus one (1) space for each five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area of the shop or car wash.
E.
Bowling alley. Four (4) spaces per alley, plus requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
F.
Club or lodge. One (1) space for each two (2) employees plus one (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor area within the main assembly area—plus—additional spaces for other uses permitted within the premises.
G.
Combined uses. The total number of required parking spaces must be equal to the sum of the spaces required for each separate use established by this schedule.
H.
Commercial recreation area (indoor or outdoor) such as YMCA or similar use. Whichever of the following two (2) standards is the greatest
1.
One (1) space for each one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor, building, or ground area, or
2.
One (1) space for each four (4) seats or facilities available for patron use.
I.
Dance school. One (1) space for each employee plus one (1) space per one hundred fifty (150) square feet of gross floor area—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
J.
Dwelling (single-family or two family). Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit. Residential driveways will satisfy this need.
K.
Fraternity, sorority, college dormitory. One (1) space for each two (2) residents—plus—one (1) for each two (2) employees.
L.
Golf Course. Two (2) spaces for each hole and one (1) space for each two (2) employees—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the golf course.
M.
Hospital, personal care home, intermediate care home, nursing home. One (1) space for each three (3) beds plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees (nurses, attendants, etc.) plus one (1) space for each staff or visiting doctor.
N.
Hotel. One (1) space for each unit plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees-plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
O.
Kindergarten, nursery school. One (1) space for each employee—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
P.
Manufacturing activity, industry, warehouse. Two (2) spaces for each three (3) employees on shift of greatest employment, plus one (1) space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
Q.
Motel. One (1) space for each unit plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees-plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
R.
Office, professional building, or similar use. One (1) space for each three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees.
S.
Personal service establishment. One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor area—but not less than two (2) spaces for each employee.
T.
Restaurant, or place dispensing food, drink, or refreshment. One (1) space for each three (3) seats plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees on shift of greatest employment.
U.
Retail store of any type not otherwise specified in this schedule. One (1) space per three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area.
V.
School—elementary. One (1) space for each teacher, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees and administrative personnel, plus one (1) space for each classroom—plus adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
W.
School—high, trade. One (1) space for each two (2) teachers, employees, administrative personnel, and students—plus—adequate area for safe and convenient loading and unloading of students.
X.
Shopping center. One (1) space for every three hundred (300) square feet of gross floor area.
Y.
Swimming pool, public. One (1) space for every three hundred (300) square feet of water surface—plus—requirements for any other use associated with the establishment such as a restaurant, etc.
Z.
Wholesale establishment. One (1) space for each employee plus sufficient space, plus one (1) space for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the business.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 4: - Number of Loading Spaces Required
Manufacturing, industrial, wholesale, and retail operations must provide loading space as follows:
A.
Spaces appropriate to functions. Off-street loading spaces must be provided as appropriate to the functions and scope of operation or individual or groups of buildings and uses.
B.
Design of loading spaces. Off-street loading spaces must be designed and constructed so that all maneuvering to park vehicles for loading can take place entirely within the property lines of the premises. Loading spaces must be provided so as not to interfere with the free, normal movement of vehicles and pedestrians on public rights-of-way.
C.
Ingress and Egress. Ingress and egress to off-street loading spaces must conform to curb cut requirements specified in this Standard.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 5: - Curb Cut Requirements
In any case in which provision for ingress and egress involves the lowering or cutting away of curbs, such a curb cut is subject to the following provisions:
A.
Only one (1) combined entrance and exit is allowed for any parcel of property with a frontage on any one (1) street of less than fifty (50) feet. No more than two (2) combined entrances and exits are allowed for any parcel of property with a frontage on any one (1) street of between fifty (50) feet and two hundred (200) feet. For parcels of property having frontage on any one (1) street of more than two hundred (200) feet, additional entrances or exits are permitted only after the developer demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that more curb cuts are needed for safety reasons, and such additional curb cuts are approved by the Mayor and Council.
B.
At street intersections, curb cuts must be located at least twenty-five (25) feet from the intersections of the two (2) curb lines (or such lines extended) or at least fifteen (15) feet from the intersection of the two (2) intersection property lines (or such lines extended), whichever is less.
C.
The distance between any two (2) curb cuts on the same side of the street and located on one property must be at least ten (10) feet. The distance is measured between the points at which the two curb cuts begin to deviate from the established curb line of the abutting street (in other words, between the intersections of the curb return radii and the established curb line of the abutting street).
D.
The minimum setback from all property lines for any driveway is two (2) feet.
E.
The maximum permitted width of any driveway at the right-of-way line of the abutting street is thirty-five (35) feet.
F.
The maximum permitted width of any curb cut, including the points at which the curb cut begins to deviate from the established curb line of the abutting street at either end of the curb cut (in other works, including the curb returns) is fifty (50) feet. However, the Administrative Officer may approve a specified larger width for a truck stop, if he determines that a larger curb cut is needed for safety reasons.
G.
The sum of the two curb return radii for any one curb cut must not exceed fifteen (15) feet.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
