ARTICLE IV: - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Section 1: - Purpose and Intent
For purposes of this ordinance, the incorporated area of the City of Butler, is divided into land use districts or zones for the purposes of promoting the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories, size of open space, density and distribution of population and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against flooding, public activities, and other purposes so as to lessen congestion in roads and streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote the public health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods; to protect against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout the City of Butler, and for other purposes.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 2: - Establishment of Districts
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this ordinance, the City of Butler is hereby divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
District Abbreviation District Name
SFR Single-Family Residential
SFRD Single-Family Residential Duplex
MFR Multi-Family Residential
RR Rural Residential
MHS Manufactured Home Subdivision
TCC Town Center Commercial
GC General Commercial
LM Light Manufacturing
HCM Heavy Commercial
and Manufacturing
OI Office and Institutional
AIR Airport
  EXPAND
Zoning Equivalency Table
Land Uses Previous Zoning Classifications Comprehen-
sive Plan Character Areas New Zoning
Classifications
Residential AR Rural Residential RR Rural Residential
R-1 Low-Density Residential SFR Single-Family Residential
R-2 Single-Family Residential
R-2A Single-Family and Duplex Residential SFRD Single-Family Residential Duplex
R-3 Multi-Family Residential MFR Multi-Family Residential
MHS Manufactured Home
Subdivision
Commercial C-2 Neighborhood Commercial TCC Town Center Commercial
C-1 Highway
Commercial GC General
Commercial
C-3 Heavy
Commercial HCM Heavy
Commercial and Manufacturing
Manufacturing M-2 Heavy Manufacturing
M-1 Light Manufacturing LM Light Manufacturing
Other O-1 Office and Institutional OI Office and Institutional
S-1 Airport AIR Airport
  (Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 3: - District Zoning Map
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the Official Zoning District Map of the City of Butler. The zoning map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this ordinance and have the same force and effects as if the zoning district map and all the notations' references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with the City of Butler Zoning Administrator and available for public review.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 4: - Reserved.
Section 5: - Interpretation of District Boundaries
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street lines, land lot lines, militia district lines, railroad lines, stream beds or river beds, private lot lines or corporate limit lines, such lines existing at the time of passage of the zoning resolution shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Where a district boundary divides a parcel, location of the district boundary shall be determined by use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map, unless clearly indicated otherwise by dimensions on the zoning map.
Where a public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the vacated property shall be considered as being within the same zoning district as the adjoining property.
Where district boundaries are shown so as to indicate they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of roads or highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being measured from or being parallel to the center lines of such roads or highways. If no distance is provided, dimensions shall be determined by the use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
Section 6: - Official Zoning Map
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this ordinance are bounded and defined as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Butler, Georgia." Said map shall also be identified by the signature of the City Clerk, the Mayor of Butler and the adoption date of this ordinance. The zoning maps and all explanatory matters thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance.
(Ord. of 3-12-2019)
