Chapter 34 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Powers of local authorities concerning motor vehicles and traffic, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; powers of municipal courts concerning misdemeanor traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21; adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-001. - Authority of mayor and council to regulate traffic.
The authority to make and enforce all rules and regulations governing traffic and the use of streets of the city be vehicles and pedestrians, shall be vested in the mayor and council, and the mayor and council shall have full power to designate directions to traffic, time limits, and locations for parking, reservation of parking places, maximum and minimum speeds insofar as same shall not conflict with the laws of the state, to establish through streets, truck routes, and stop crossing, and to install such street signs and indicators and markings as shall be necessary or advisable for the operation and enforcement of such rules and regulations. No such rule or regulation shall be effective unless and until appropriate signs, indicators or marking are installed.
(Prior Code, § 35-001)
Sec. 34-002. - Uniform traffic act; adoption by reference.
Pursuant to the O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372, 40-1-1 through 40-1-5 and 40-6-1 through 40-6-395, known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this municipality, with like effect as if recited in full herein.
Sec. 34-003. - One-way streets designated.
The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to be one-way streets and vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited: Main Street from its intersection with Broad Street to its intersection with Ivey Street.
(Prior Code, § 35-003)
Sec. 34-004. - Permits for parades and processions.
No funeral, procession, or parade containing 50 or more persons or five or more vehicles, excepting the Armed Forces of the United States, the military forces of this state, and the forces of police and fire department, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in the accordance with a permit issued by the chief of police and such other regulations as are forth in this chapter which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 35-004)
Sec. 34-005. - Funeral processions to be identified.
A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant of a type designated by the chief of police, or by burning lights.
(Prior Code, § 35-005)
Secs. 34-006—34-028. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES

Sec. 34-029. - Authority to place, maintain, etc.—Electric traffic control.
As an aid in facilitating the movement of traffic on the streets of the city and in reducing accidents, the chief of police and the city electrician are hereby authorized and directed to place and maintain electric traffic-control devices and signals at such locations as may be designated from time to time by resolutions of the commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35-006)
Sec. 34-030. - Same—Other traffic control devices.
The chief of police of the city shall place and maintain, other than electrically operated, traffic control devices when and as required under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of this chapter and such ordinances, and with the approval of the city manager, may place and maintain such additional traffic control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic ordinances of the city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 35-007)
Secs. 34-031—34-048. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOTOR VEHICLES—OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. adopted Oct. 8, 2019, § 1, amended Art. III and in so doing changed the title of said article from operation of vehicles to read as set out herein.

Sec. 34-049. - Speed restrictions.
A.
No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
B.
Where no special hazard exists, the following speeds shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of such a limit shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and is unlawful.
1.
Fifteen miles per hour in passing hospitals and in passing school while schools are in session and in passing churches the hours of service therein.
2.
Twenty-five miles per hour within the corporate limits, except as herein otherwise provided.
3.
Thirty-five miles per hour within the zones designated, and when signs are posted at either end of a speed zone.
4.
The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the force going prima facie limits shall not receive the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or by reason of when special hazard exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(Prior Code, § 35-008)
Sec. 34-050. - Abandoned motor vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or abandon a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city or upon the rights-of-way of the streets and allow said motor vehicle to remain parked or abandoned for more than 12 continuous hours. Parking on the street shall not impede safe travel of vehicles or emergency access.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
State Law reference— Under O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4, a local government may provide by ordinance for the removal and disposal of discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicles or parts thereof.
Sec. 34-051. - Removal and storage.
Should any sworn police officer or code enforcement officer of the city find any motor vehicle that has been parked or abandoned as aforesaid, he/she shall have the right to impound same and to have same removed from the streets of the city at the expense of the owner, and charge the owner storage.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-052. - Inoperable motor vehicle.
As used in this section, "inoperable motor vehicle," shall mean any contrivance or part thereof, propelled by power and used in the transportation of persons or property on public streets and highways, the condition of which is one or more of the following:
1.
Wrecked;
2.
Dismantled;
3.
Partially dismantled;
4.
Inoperative;
5.
Abandoned;
6.
Discarded.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-053. - Declared to be unlawful and a nuisance.
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any inoperable motor vehicle on public property or any private lot, tract or parcel of land or portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the city. The presence of any inoperable vehicle on any property shall be deemed a public nuisance except as otherwise stated in this section. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain such a public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or discarding any motor vehicle on the real property of another, including public property, or to permit or allow inoperable vehicles to be parked or maintained on his or its own property.
B.
Subsection A. shall not apply to:
1.
Any motor vehicle in an enclosed building;
2.
Any motor vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful manner, when necessary to the operation of such business; or
3.
Any motor vehicle on property occupied and used for repair, reconditioning and remodeling of motor vehicles in conformance with the zoning ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-054. - Administration and enforcement of this article; right of entry.
The provisions of this article shall be administered by the chief of police. In the enforcement of this article, the chief of police or any duly authorized sworn officers may enter upon the private or public property to examine a junked motor vehicle or obtain information as to the identity of a junked vehicle and to remove or cause to be removed the junked motor vehicle constituting a nuisance under this article.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-055. - Notice to abate nuisance; violation.
When the chief of police, a sworn officer or code enforcement officer deems a junked motor vehicle to be a public nuisance, he/she shall issue a warning notice to the parties owning or in apparent possession of the motor vehicle to remove the junked motor vehicle. If the junked motor vehicle is not removed within 72 hours, the owner of the abandoned motor vehicle or owner of the land on which it is located shall be deemed guilty of an offense pursuant to this article and under section 21-040 herein, and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-008 and the cost of having the junked vehicle removed shall be added to the court costs.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-056. - Right of entry of persons employed to remove vehicles.
Any person employed by the city to remove junked motor vehicles constituting a nuisance under this article has the right to enter upon private and public property to remove a junked motor vehicle.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Sec. 34-057. - Penalty.
Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of this article or who abandons or fails to properly maintain a vehicle shall be punished in accordance with section 1-008 of this Code of Ordinances in addition to any other penalty set forth herein.
(Ord. of 10-8-2019(1), § 1)
Secs. 34-058—34-071. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING

Sec. 34-072. - Parking lines, angle, and parallel parking.
On streets where white lines are shown for guidance, parking must conform with such lines. The driver must park his vehicle entirely within the boundaries designated by such lines. No person shall park and leave unattended a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, and with the curb-side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway, except upon those streets which have been marked or signed for angle parking and on such streets vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the edge of the roadway indicated by such marks or signs.
(Prior Code, § 35-009)
Secs. 34-073—34-102. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BICYCLES

Sec. 34-103. - Persons riding bicycles to obey traffic regulations.
Every person riding a bicycle shall be subject to the provision of this chapter application to the driver of any vehicle except those provisions of such chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 35-010)
Sec. 34-104. - Clinging to moving vehicle.
Any person riding upon a bicycle shall not attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 35-011)
Sec. 34-105. - Carrying extra passengers on bicycles.
The operator of a bicycle shall not carry any other person upon the handlebars, frame or tank, nor shall any other person ride upon such vehicle unless riding in an extra seat provided for each extra person.
(Prior Code, § 35-012)
Sec. 34-106. - Speed.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle at an unusual speed, or in a disorderly manner, or as to endanger the life or limb of another.
(Prior Code, § 35-013)
