Chapter 21 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.; limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-001. - Jurisdiction of state offenses.
The city hereby elects to exercise jurisdiction over all those state offenses for which a grant of jurisdiction has been provided by general state law. In the exercise of that jurisdiction, officers writing tickets returnable to the municipal court shall delineate the nature of the offense charged by name and the citation of state law and summons. Offenses to be cited and brought before the recorder's court for final adjudication include:
1.
Possession of one ounce or less of marijuana, pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 16-13-30 and 16-3-2.
2.
Operating a motor vehicle without effective insurance, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-6-10.
3.
Theft by shoplifting when the property which is the subject of this theft is valued at $500.00 or less, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-8-14.
4.
Furnishing alcoholic beverages to and possession and purchase of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age, pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-23 and 3-3-23.1.
5.
Criminal trespass, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
(Ord. of 12-11-2007, § 21-000)
Secs. 21-002—21-020. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFENSES

Sec. 21-021. - Aiding in jailbreak; helping resist arrest; smuggling items into jail.
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner aid or assist any prisoner to break out of any jail where city prisoners are being held, or to aid or assist any person in avoiding arrest by the officers of the city, or furnish to any prisoner, whether in jail or at work on the public works, any article or thing of any sort without the consent of the police.
(Ord. of 12-11-2007, § 21-001)
Sec. 21-022. - Billiards, bagatelle; prohibited playing on Sunday.
It shall be unlawful for any keeper of any billiard or bagatelle table or alley for playing with pins and balls to permit such table or alley to be open on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 21-002)
Sec. 21-023. - Reserved.
Sec. 21-024. - Contemptuous or disorderly conduct toward mayor and council.
Any person guilty of contemptuous or disorderly conduct towards the mayor and council, or in their presence, shall be punished by a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance or confinement in the city jail not to exceed 20 days.
(Prior Code, § 21-004)
Sec. 21-025. - Damaging, defacing park property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the walks laid out in any public park and trespass upon the grass, or face any of the seats, fountains or other property therein, or to cut or whittle thereon with a knife or other instrument, or to write or mark thereon with a pen, pencil or other instrument, or to cut or injure any of the shade trees in said park.
(Prior Code, § 21-005)
Sec. 21-026. - Damaging, defacing public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, break or destroy any of the property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-006)
Sec. 21-027. - Damaging, interfacing with poles, wires, other fixtures.
It shall be unlawful to cut, break, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole used for the support of electrical wires or to throw at, break, injure, or in any other manner molest or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp, or other thing placed thereon, or tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any pole.
(Prior Code, § 21-007)
Sec. 21-028. - Dead animals.
No person shall deposit any carcass of any dead animal upon any ground, public or private, within the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-008)
Sec. 21-029. - Discharging or possessing firearms, other weapons.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or gun outside of their home and off their premises, on the sidewalks or streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-009)
Sec. 21-030. - Disorderly conduct.
A.
A person commits the offense of disorderly conduct when such person, within the corporate limits of the city, commits any of the following:
1.
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any person is placed in danger of or in fear of his safety, life, limb, or health;
2.
Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby public property or property of another person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
3.
Without provocation, uses to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words";
4.
Without provocation, uses obscene and vulgar or profane language in the presence of or by telephone to a person under the age of 14 years which threatens an immediate breach of the peace;
5.
Endangers or interferes with the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence or threats of bodily harm;
6.
Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous conduct as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another or of public property;
7.
Assembles or congregates with another or others and causes, provokes or engages in any fight or brawl;
8.
Collects in bodies or in crowds and engages in unlawful activities;
9.
Assembles or congregates with another or other and engages or attempts to engage in gaming;
10.
Frequents any public place and obtains money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice, or device, or attempts to do so;
11.
Assembles with another or others and engages in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain or attempt to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person;
12.
Utters, in a public place or any place open to the public, any obscene words or epithets;
13.
Frequents any place or vehicle where gaming or the illegal sale of possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed, or tolerated;
14.
Uses "fighting words" directed towards any person, causing said person to become outraged and thus creates turmoil;
15.
Assembles or congregates with another or others and does bodily harm to another or the property of another or public property;
16.
By acts of violence or threats thereof, interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
17.
Congregates with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having authority;
18.
Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive condition;
19.
Appears in public in an intoxicated state or condition, whether said intoxication is by alcohol and/or drugs;
20.
Exposes any part of his body in an indecent or lewd manner;
21.
Creates loud noises, by and in any manner, which disrupts, disturbs, or otherwise interferes with the peace and tranquility of the public;
22.
Attempts to hinder, delay, obstruct, or prevent any law enforcement officer from performing his duty;
23.
Keeps a disorderly house or house of ill fame; all adults residing in the house shall be considered its keeper;
24.
Lingers or loiters along public sidewalks, streets, or public ways of the city;
25.
Fails or refuses to remove themselves from the private property of another when requested to do so by the owner or occupants thereof;
26.
Either alone or in concert with others, with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his own use without paying for the same or depriving the owner of possession thereof (or the value thereof), in whole or in part, conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise from a retail establishment, alters the price tag or other price marking of goods or merchandise of any store or retail establishment, or wrongfully causes the amount paid to be less than the merchant's stated price for the merchandise, where the property or value thereof is $300.00 or less; or
27.
Commits such words, acts, or conduct upon public property, upon private property that is open to the general public, or within the cartilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which, under ordinary circumstances, will naturally tend to disturb the public peace, tranquility or decorum, scandalize the community, shock the public sense or morality, or cause a detriment to the health and welfare of the community.
B.
Continued conduct. Continuation of the disorderly conduct constitutes additional offenses, and each day that the disorderly conduct continues shall constitute a new and separate offense.
C.
Any person who commits the offense of disorderly conduct within the corporate limits of the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in section 1-008.
(Ord. of 12-11-2007, § 21-010)
Sec. 21-031. - Reserved.
Sec. 21-032. - Disorderly houses, etc.
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain and keep a lewd house or place for the practice of fornication or adultery, either by himself or others, within the city.
B.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city, either by himself or others, a common, ill-governed and disorderly house, to the encouragement of idleness, gambling, drinking or other misbehavior, or to the common disturbance of the neighborhood or orderly citizens.
C.
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the city, to keep and maintain a house of ill-fame, or assignation house, or knowingly permit any house owned or controlled by him to be used or occupied for lewd purposes, or as an assignation house, or to knowingly rent, lease or let any house for such purposes.
D.
It shall be the duty of the police force to arrest any person who may be found at any lewd house or house of ill-fame within the city, and bring such a person before the recorder's court, which shall, on conviction, punish such person as prescribed inn this Code, provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any person who may visit such houses on necessary and legitimate business.
(Prior Code, § 21-012)
Sec. 21-033. - Drive-in restaurants; lighting required.
All proprietor or operators of drive-in restaurants shall be required to provide and maintain sufficient illumination of all parts of drive-in parking lots to render all positions of all persons upon such parking areas of such drive-in lots clearly visible to other patrons and proprietors, from the time of darkness until the time of closing.
(Prior Code, § 21-013)
Sec. 21-034. - Reserved.
Sec. 21-035. - Fireworks prohibited.
No person shall explode or burst any firecracker, sky rockets, Roman candles or any other fireworks of like character within the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-015)
Sec. 21-036. - Gambling.
No gambling or gambling scheme or device of any kind shall be allowed within the city. Any person caught gambling with disorderly conduct and punished as for a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 21-016)
Sec. 21-037. - Indecent exposure.
A.
Offenses. A person commits the offense of indecent exposure when he performs any of the following acts in a place where a person should reasonably expect to be in view of the public:
1.
An actual or simulated act of sexual intercourse or masturbation;
2.
Exposure of the genitals;
3.
A lewd appearance in a state of partial or complete nudity;
4.
A lewd caress or indecent fondling of the body of another person;
5.
A lewd caress or indecent fondling of the sexual organs of any person, including oneself;
6.
Urination or defecation; or
7.
Appears wearing pants or skirts more than three inches below the top of the hips (crest of the ilium) exposing the skin or undergarments.
B.
Fines and penalties. A citation shall be issued to the offender and the person shall be subject to a penalty as determined from time to time by ordinance, plus fees on the first offense and not more than $200.00, plus fees for each subsequent offense. In addition to or in lieu of a fine, the court may order such person to participate in up to 40 hours of court approved community service activities. Violators shall not be subject to arrest or imprisonment for violation of the section, however, the municipal court shall have the same authority as the superior court to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences.
C.
Defenses. It is a defense under this article if it is determined, after a hearing or trial, that the person was exercising rights protected by the federal or state constitution. Any defense under this subsection must be asserted prior to any hearing or trial in the matter.
(Ord. of 7-10-2012, § 21-017)
Sec. 21-038. - Accumulation of junk.
It is unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant, or other person having possession and/or control of private property to deposit, collect, store, maintain, or permit to be deposited, collected, or stored, to remain upon said private property any junk as defined in this section. A violation of this article shall be punished as provided in the Charter of the city, article VI, section 6.03.
1.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, ice boxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, televisions and radio sets, lawn mowers and other devices of like nature.
Junk means any abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment, or material of any kind whatsoever.
Vehicle means any device in, upon or by means of which any person or property is or may be transported.
2.
For the purpose of this article, an article of machinery, an appliance, a vehicle, and an article of equipment and other material shall be deemed to have been abandoned or discarded when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
3.
Before any person shall be convicted of violating this section, he shall be given notice in writing that he is required within 30 days for the receipt of said notice, either:
a.
To repair such junk and put into operation;
b.
To remove the same from his property; or
c.
To furnish satisfactory proof that said property has not in fact abandoned, and in being held for useful purpose.
4.
Each day any junk shall remain upon the property in violation of this section after the expiration of the notice period provided for by subsection 21-038.3 of this section shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent offense and violation of this article.
5.
The city may also, after the expiration of 30 days from the giving of the notice required by subsection 21-038.3 of this section, abate such condition as a nuisance by filling with the city recorder a complaint signed by the chief of police directed against the person responsible.
6.
This section shall not be applicable to the operation of any junkyard, salvage yard, car lot or other similar business licensed by the city, where the storage and accumulation of such items are an incident to the operation of such regularly licensed business.
(Prior Code, § 21-018)
Sec. 21-039. - Muffler required; noise producing devices on vehicles.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the city without said vehicle being equipped with mufflers commonly known as smitties, clear or gutted mufflers or exhaust systems equipped with cutouts, or with noise making device attached to the tailpipe, such as spark plugs or inner tubes or any other noise making devices.
(Prior Code, § 21-019)
Sec. 21-040. - Nuisances; maintaining.
Any person keeping or maintaining a nuisance on premises owned or occupied by him, whether a public place or private nuisance, or allowing such nuisance to continue after receiving notice from the police remove the same from the premises shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 21-020)
Sec. 21-041. - Obscene, indecent, disorderly conduct or language.
It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a violent, turbulent, quarrelsome, boisterous, indecent, or disorderly manner, to use profane, order, morals, peace or dignity of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-021)
Sec. 21-042. - Obscene, lewd, indecent behavior.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of open lewdness or any notorious act of public indecency, tending to debauch the morals, within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-022)
Sec. 21-043. - Obscene literature.
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the city, to publish, circulate, give or sell, or cause to be publicly given or sold, any book, writing, print, picture, newspaper, pamphlet or other work of an obscene, licentious, lewd or libelous nature, or to publicly exhibit any lewd, obscene or indecent picture.
(Prior Code, § 21-023)
Sec. 21-044. - Open, dangerous wells.
The owners of all open and dangerous wells in the city must close in, cover, or otherwise abate said nuisances. Upon failure to do so, such nuisance shall be abated by authority of the mayor and council and the cost of abating same collected from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 21-024)
Sec. 21-045. - Parades; permission required.
It shall be unlawful to organize and parade through the city, whether on foot, animal or motor vehicle, without the written permission of the mayor and council. A written requisition for the event stating the date, time, etc., must be submitted along with a current certificate of insurance for no less than $1,000,000.00. This information shall be reviewed by the chief of police and forwarded to the mayor and city council.
(Prior Code, § 21-025; Ord. of 7-10-2012, § 21-025)
Sec. 21-046. - Portable truck weighing.
A.
It shall be unlawful for any one to operate, keep, maintain, control, and use portable weighing scales and apparatuses within the confines of the city limits on any streets thereof regardless of whether such street is connected with the state highway system of roads and regardless of whether or not such person is an employee of the state.
B.
This section is necessary to allow the free flow of vehicular traffic and to keep moved obstructions and congestion injurious and dangerous to the public on the city streets and as granted in the Charter of the city, and which ordinance hereof is not in conflict with the constitution of the state.
C.
The violation of this section is punishable in accordance with the city Charter; that is for each and every violation hereof the offender against said ordinance shall be punished by a fine as determined from time to time by ordinance, or by imprisonment in the jail of said county not exceeding 30 days, or by working on public streets of said city 30 days, and any one or more of the punishments may be ordered by the presiding judge of the court .
(Prior Code, § 21-026)
Sec. 21-047. - Posting signs on posts, trees, poles.
It shall be unlawful to tack, nail or otherwise place signs on posts, trees, or poles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-027)
Sec. 21-048. - Prisoners, probationers and/or community service workers to be regulated under the chief of police or his designated personnel.
The police department is assigned all prisoners, probationers and/or community service workers serving sentences from the city recorder's court, to be worked under the supervision of said department. This department shall work in conjunction with other inter-city departments in the above mentioned individuals by placing them in needed work areas according to ability. Each city department will be in charge of the above mentioned individuals as designated and will ensure that all time is recorded with the police department or appropriate personnel (to reflect the correct recording of hours worked). Prisoners, probationers and/or community service workers must obey instructions given by the immediate city supervisor. If any problem should arise, the city department chief must notify the chief of police immediately for directive or corrective measure.
(Prior Code, § 21-028; Ord. of 7-10-2012, § 21-028)
Sec. 21-049. - Prostitution, lewdness, and assignation—Defined.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Assignation includes the making of any appointment or engagement for prostitution or lewdness or any act in furtherance of such appointment or engagement.
Lewdness includes any indecent or obscene act.
Prostitution includes the giving or receiving of the body for sexual intercourse for hire, and includes the giving or receiving of the body for licentious sexual intercourse without hire. The term "prostitution" excludes sexual intercourse between a husband and a wife.
(Prior Code, § 21-029)
Sec. 21-050. - Same—Maintain house for; securing another for receiving for; transporting for.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to:
1.
Keep, set up, maintain or operate any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or prostitution.
2.
Offer, or to offer or agree to secure, another for the purpose of prostitution, or for any other lewd or indecent act.
3.
Receive, or to offer or agree to receive, any person into any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or to permit any person to remain there such purpose.
4.
Direct, take or transport, or to offer or agree to take or transport, any person to any place, structure or building, or to any other person, with knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is prostitution lewdness or assignation.
(Prior Code, § 21-030)
Sec. 21-051. - Same—Committing; soliciting; remain during; aiding or abetting.
It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to:
1.
Offer to commit, or to commit, or to engage in, prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
2.
Solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit prostitution, lewdness or assignation with himself.
3.
Reside in, enter or remain in any place, structure, or building, or to enter or remain in any conveyance, for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation.
4.
Aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts or things enumerated in sections 21-049 and 21-050.
(Prior Code, § 21-031)
Sec. 21-052. - Resisting arrest.
It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer of the city who, at the time of encountering resistance, shall be in the act of making, or attempting to make, a lawful arrest of such person. The term "resist", as used in this section, is defined as any act of whatever kind and nature designed to prevent the effecting of a lawful arrest.
(Prior Code, § 21-033)
Sec. 21-053. - Littering of sewers, drains, streets, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw paper, trash or any other article in any ditch, sewer or street within the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-034; Ord. of 7-10-2012, § 21-034)
Sec. 21-054. - Slot machine.
It shall be unlawful to own, operate, possess or play any slot machine, or to own or operate any place of business in which is located a slot machine. As used in the section, the term "slot machine" shall mean any machine or device adopted for use in such a way that, as a result of the insertion of a coin or other thing of value, is caused to operate or may be operated, and by reason of any elements of chance or of other outcome unpredictable to him, the user may receive or become entitled to receive any piece of money, credit, allowance or other thing of value.
(Prior Code, § 21-035)
Sec. 21-055. - Throwing stones, other missiles.
No person shall pitch, throw, or cast any stones or missile at or upon any house, window, lamp, electric light or telephone poles or fixtures, or shade trees in the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-036)
Sec. 21-056. - Tickets for standing room in places of amusement prohibited; blocking aisles.
No proprietor, employer or employee of any moving picture show or other place of amusement in the city shall sell tickets for standing room in theaters, picture shows and such places of amusement, or permit patrons of such places of amusement.
(Prior Code, § 21-037)
Sec. 21-057. - Reserved.
Sec. 21-058. - Trains; warning when approaching crossing.
It shall be unlawful to run a train within the city after approaching within 100 yards of the first public crossing without plainly and distinctly blowing the whistle while the train is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 21-040)
Sec. 21-059. - Trees, damaging, defacing, etc.
A.
It shall be unlawful for any person, by themselves or by their servant, to cut down trees on any public lot or square in the city. Each repetition of such act shall be taken and construed as a separate offense.
B.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack or nail any paper, cardboard, tin or any other thing upon any shade tree within the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-041)
Sec. 21-060. - Watching exhibitions, games without paying admission.
It shall be unlawful to climb on the fence of any fair ground or baseball park, or other like place of amusement, while any exhibition is in progress therein, or to enter any roped-off enclosure wherein any game or exhibition is in progress except at the regular entrance, or to stop any wagon, dray, automobile or other vehicle in the immediate vicinity thereof for the purpose of standing or sitting thereon, and thereby obtaining a view of said game or exhibition, without paying the usual entrance fee charged.
(Prior Code, § 21-043)
