ARTICLE VIII. - COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VENDING

Sec. 22-306. - Purpose and authority.
This article is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and the constitution of the state for the purpose of maintaining the health, safety and welfare of the city, and to ensure that vending operations upon privately owned commercially zoned property in the city are conducted in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city. The city finds that there exists a need for vending, particularly food vending, during special events.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-101)
Sec. 22-307. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Occupant means the person who owns or leases the property upon which vending is proposed to be conducted.
Property means privately owned property zoned as commercial pursuant to the city's zoning ordinance.
Special event means events designated by the city council as such.
Vending means engaging in any of the activities of a vendor on property in the city. Vending is only allowed during special events.
Vendor means a person who sells food or any other merchandise to the public from any privately owned commercially zoned property.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-102)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-308. - Permits.
(a)
Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in vending activities without having obtained a valid permit as provided for in this article.
(b)
Issuance. Any permit issued under this section shall be issued to and in the name of only one person who, in addition to any bona fide employees of the permittee, shall engage only in the activity applied for. The permit shall not be transferable to another person. Only the proposed vendor or his authorized agent may apply for such permit.
(c)
Refund of fee. Any permit fee shall not be refundable.
(d)
Separate permit for each location. A separate permit shall be required for each separate location at which the vending is sought to be conducted.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-103)
Sec. 22-309. - Applications for permit.
Applications for a permit to engage in vending must be submitted to the city clerk at least 30 days in advance of the dates vending activities are proposed to commence. All applicable fees for the permit shall be paid by cash, cashier's check or money order prior to the issuance of such permit. The application for a permit to engage in vending shall include the following information:
(1)
The name, current street address and telephone number of the applicant.
(2)
The name, current street address and telephone number of a person who can be contacted if the applicant cannot be located.
(3)
A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold by the vendor.
(4)
A schedule of the intended days and hours of operation, which must be during a special event.
(5)
A description of the display to be used by the vendor, specifying the maximum dimensions of the display with any attachments or extensions, the primary material and manner of construction, and the general appearance as it will be presented to the public. Such description shall be provided in the form of a photograph, blueprint or scale drawing.
(6)
A declaration holding harmless the city, its agents, employees and assigns, from any and all claims or liability that might arise from any activity engaged in by the vendor.
(7)
Written permission from the owner or lessee of the vending site.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-104)
Sec. 22-310. - Displays.
(a)
Vending permitted under this article shall not be conducted from any conveyance or in any mode other than from a city approved cart, stand or skirted table or as otherwise prescribed in this article. Grocery carts and wood or cardboard boxes are prohibited from being used as displays.
(b)
Any cart, stand or skirted table shall not be larger than four feet wide by eight feet long and seven feet high, including all attachments, extensions and merchandise.
(c)
The total weight of a display, plus merchandise, shall not exceed 125 pounds per square foot.
(d)
The display area shall be contained in an area no smaller than 16 feet by 16 feet, or 256 square feet.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-105)
Sec. 22-311. - Self-contained vehicular prepared food displays.
The city may, in its discretion, allow trucks and trailers specifically designed for storage and service of food to be located at city approved sites as set forth in section 22-317. These food displays must meet all health department requirements and other applicable requirements.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-106)
Sec. 22-312. - Fees; term.
Occupants shall not be charged a fee for a vending permit. All other vendors shall pay a vending permit fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges per day of each special event, except the total fee shall be no more than as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for special events of more than five consecutive days. All fees shall be paid at city hall prior to the issuance of a permit. There shall be no refunding of vending permits. The permit shall be valid only during one designated special event but may be renewed for future special events upon prepayment of the daily fee. Each renewal constitutes a certification as to the continued accuracy of the application.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-107)
Sec. 22-313. - Grant or denial of permit.
Not later than 30 working days after the filing of the completed application for a permit, the applicant shall be notified in writing by the city of the decision on the issuance or denial of the permit. The permit shall be denied if in the judgment of the city circumstances are such that the granting of the permit would not be in the best interest of the general public. Whenever the city shall deny an application for a permit, the applicant shall have ten days following the date of notice of denial to request a hearing before the mayor and council. The applicant may present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses at that hearing.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-108)
Sec. 22-314. - Display of permit.
It shall be unlawful for any vendor to fail to display the vending permit prominently. Any vendor of food or food products regulated by the health department must display a food permit in the same manner.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-109)
Sec. 22-315. - Loud noises.
It shall be unlawful for any vendor to cause any loud or offensive noise, including noise for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods or services for sale or distribution.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-110)
Sec. 22-316. - General requirements.
(a)
Use of public property prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any vendor to use any public property for displaying or promoting the sale of any goods or merchandise unless a permit therefor has been obtained under article VII of this chapter.
(b)
Endangerment of safety, health and/or welfare prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any vendor to display goods or merchandise in any manner which would endanger the safety, health and/or welfare of the public.
(c)
Display of merchandise on ground prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any vendor to display goods or merchandise on the ground, or on any cloth, plastic or similar ground covering.
(d)
Displays. A display shall not be left unattended at any time.
(e)
Authority of police to require vendors to relocate. The police department may require any vendor to relocate the display in order to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(f)
Age of applicant. The applicant shall be no less than 18 years of age.
(g)
Age of employees. The vendor or an employee age 18 or older must be present at the vending site at all times. The vendor shall comply with all requirements of O.C.G.A. § 39-2-1 et seq.
(h)
Attire. Vendors and their employees and helpers shall wear neat, clean clothing that complies with all requirements of law.
(i)
Food sales. Prior to the sale of food, vendors must meet all county health department requirements.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-111)
Sec. 22-317. - Site approval process.
(a)
The city manager shall have the authority to administer the provisions of this article and to promulgate reasonable administrative rules and procedures in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
The approval of vending locations shall be compatible with the public interest and shall take into consideration the proximity of existing public and private property (benches, bus stops, loading zones, telephone booths, building entrances and display windows, etc.), proximity to other vending locations, and the like, to ensure there will not be pedestrian and street congestion or obstruction, and in order to contribute as effectively as possible to the intent of this article.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-112)
Sec. 22-318. - Suspension or revocation of permit.
(a)
A vending permit may be suspended for a period of time or revoked for the following conduct:
(1)
Violating any federal, state or local law or regulation.
(2)
Failing to permit any lawfully requested inspection by health officials or to comply with any lawful request of a police officer.
(3)
Failing to possess and properly display at all times the permits required under this article.
(4)
Having a display that is not in compliance with this article.
(5)
Vending in any area other than the space designated by the permit unless approved by the city in writing.
(6)
Failing to keep the vending location clear of trash or other debris or failing to pick up, remove and dispose of all trash or refuse remaining at the vending location at the close of the business day.
(7)
Offering for sale any merchandise, goods or services other than those approved and identified on the permit.
(8)
Allowing any items relating to the operation of the vending business to be stored or placed anywhere other than in, on or under the display.
(9)
Keeping animals of any kind near the vending location. This prohibition shall not apply to guide dogs.
(10)
Using a motorized vehicle for the purpose of vending, except as expressly authorized pursuant to section 22-311.
(11)
Misrepresenting any information required on any application for a permit; failing to provide the information required by this section; or failing to provide any relevant information sought by the city manager.
(12)
Violating any provision of this article.
(b)
If a permit is suspended or revoked, the permittee shall have the right to appeal the suspension or revocation to the mayor and council within ten working days of the suspension or revocation. The permittee shall be entitled at such a hearing to present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses. The suspension or revocation of a permit shall not prevent any criminal prosecution that may arise from any violation of this Code. Noncompliance is deemed to be a misdemeanor offense punishable in the municipal court.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-113)
Sec. 22-319. - Construction of this article with Charter and other laws, ordinances and regulations.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or the city to enforce any provisions of the Charter or other ordinances or regulations of the city, nor to prevent or punish violations. The powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the Charter or by any other laws or ordinances. In the event of any conflicts of this article with any other ordinance, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(Ord. of 4-8-1996(1), § 21B-114)
Secs. 22-320—22-350. - Reserved.
