ARTICLE VII. - STREET VENDORS

Sec. 22-261. - Purpose and authority.
This article is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated and the constitution of the state, for the purpose of maintaining the health, safety and welfare of the city, and to ensure that vending operations within the city on city property are conducted in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city. The city finds that there exists a need for vending, particularly food vending, during special events.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-101)
Sec. 22-262. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Special event means events designated by the city council as such.
Street vendor means any person who sells food or any other merchandise to the public from any location on any public property, including any public street, sidewalk or right-of-way.
Vending means engaging in any of the activities of a street vendor.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-102)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-263. - Permits.
(a)
Required. Except as otherwise provided for in this article, vending shall be permitted within the city. However, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in such activities without having obtained a valid permit as provided for in this article.
(b)
Issuance. Any permit issued under this section shall be issued to and in the name of only one individual person who, in addition to any bona fide employees of the permittee, shall engage only in the activity applied for; and the permit shall not be transferable to another person.
(c)
Refund of fee. The permit fee shall not be refundable.
(d)
Separate permit for each location. A separate permit shall be required for each separate location at which the street vending business is conducted.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-103)
Sec. 22-264. - Applications for permit.
Applications for a permit to engage in vending must be submitted to the city clerk at least 30 days in advance of the date vending activities will propose to commence. All applicable fees for the permit shall be paid by cash, cashier's check or money order prior to the issuance of such permit. The application for a permit to engage in street vending shall include but not be limited to the following information:
(1)
The name, current street address and telephone number of the applicant.
(2)
The name, current street address and telephone number of a person who can be contacted if the applicant cannot be located.
(3)
A description of the merchandise, goods or services to be sold by the vendor.
(4)
A schedule of the intended days and hours of operation.
(5)
A description of the display to be used by the vendor, specifying the maximum dimensions of the display with any attachments or extensions, the primary material and manner of construction, and the general appearance as it will be presented to the public. Such description shall be provided in the form of a photograph, blueprint or scale drawing.
(6)
A declaration holding harmless the city, its agents, employees and assigns, from any and all claims or liability that might arise out of any activity engaged in by the vendor.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-104)
Sec. 22-265. - Displays.
(a)
Vending permitted under this article shall not be conducted from any conveyance or in any mode other than from an approved cart, stand or skirted table or as otherwise prescribed in this article. Grocery carts and wood or cardboard boxes are prohibited from being used as displays.
(b)
Any cart, stand or skirted table shall not be larger than four feet wide by eight feet long and seven feet high, including all attachments, extensions and merchandise.
(c)
The total weight of a display, plus merchandise, shall not exceed 125 pounds per square foot.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-105)
Sec. 22-266. - Self-contained vehicular prepared food displays.
The city may, in its discretion, allow trucks and trailers specifically designed for storage and service of food to be located at city designated sites as set forth in section 22-272. These food displays must meet all health department requirements and other applicable requirements.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-106)
Sec. 22-267. - Fees; term.
The fees for a vending permit shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges per day of each special event, except the total fee shall be no more than as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges for events of more than five consecutive days. All fees shall be paid at city hall prior to the issuance of a permit. There shall be no refunding of vending permit fees. The permit shall be valid only during designated special events but may be renewed for future special events upon prepayment of the daily fee. Each renewal constitutes a certification as to the continued accuracy of the application.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-107)
Sec. 22-268. - Grant or denial of permit.
Not later than 30 working days after the filing of the completed application for a permit, the applicant shall be notified in writing by the city of the decision on the issuance or denial of the permit. The permit shall be denied if in the judgment of the city circumstances are such that the granting of the permit would not be in the best interest of the general public. Whenever the city shall deny an application for a permit, the applicant shall have ten days following the date of notice of denial to request a hearing before the mayor and council. The applicant may present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses at that hearing.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-108)
Sec. 22-269. - Display of permit.
It shall be unlawful for any vendor to fail to display the vending permit prominently. Any vendor of food or food products regulated by the health department must display a food permit in the same manner.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-109)
Sec. 22-270. - Loud noises.
It shall be unlawful for any vendor to cause any loud or offensive noise, including noise for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods or services for sale or distribution.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-110)
Sec. 22-271. - General requirements.
(a)
Use of public benches or utility poles prohibited. It shall be unlawful for street vendors to block the use of any public bench with their displays or to use any utility poles, trees or shrubs for displaying or promoting the sale of any goods or merchandise.
(b)
Endangerment of safety, health and/or welfare prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any street vendor to display goods or merchandise in any manner which would endanger the safety, health and/or welfare of the public.
(c)
Display of merchandise on ground prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any street vendor to display goods or merchandise on the ground, or on any cloth, plastic or similar ground covering, on any street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
(d)
Occupation of public rights-of-way. Except as otherwise provided for in this article, it shall be unlawful for any street vendor to occupy the streets, sidewalks or other public property or rights-of-way in a manner that will cause the open pedestrian way to be less than five feet in width; nor shall any such vendor locate within 20 feet of any crosswalk or driveway.
(e)
Displays. A display shall not be left unattended at any time by a permittee or employee of the permittee on any street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
(f)
Authority of police to require vendors to relocate. The police department may require any street vendor to move or relocate his display in order to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(g)
Location where vending prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in vending in the city except in such location as allowed by the city.
(h)
Age of applicant. The applicant shall be no less than 18 years of age.
(i)
Age of employees. The vendor or an employee age 18 or older must be present at all times. The vendor shall comply with all requirements of O.C.G.A. § 39-2-1 et seq.
(j)
Attire. Vendors and their employees and helpers shall wear neat, clean clothing that complies with all requirements of law.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-111)
Sec. 22-272. - Specific permitted locations.
(a)
Specific potential vending sites located in the city are identified on the map attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived as exhibit "A." Each shows a potential vendor location, which shall not exceed the area described below. The specific sites, as shown on the map, are as follows:
(1)
Hill Park.
(2)
Madison-Morgan County Recreation Department parking lot at College and East Avenues.
(3)
County board of education parking lots.
(4)
Jefferson Street between Hancock Avenue and the Roger's House, when the street is blocked.
(5)
Sidewalks as determined by the city to be appropriate.
(b)
The city has discretion within the parameters set forth in section 22-273 to assign vendors a particular site from the list specified in subsection (a) of this section. As other sites may be identified as suitable for the purposes of this section, the city council may approve further sites recommended by the city manager, which shall be marked and assigned in the same manner as the sites designated in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-112)
Sec. 22-273. - Site designation process.
The city manager shall have the authority to administer the provisions of this article and to promulgate reasonable administrative rules and procedures in accordance with the following:
(1)
The assignment of vendor locations shall be compatible with the public interest and use of sidewalk areas and public rights-of-way and shall take into consideration the proximity of existing public and private property (benches, bus stops, loading zones, telephone booths, building entrances and display windows, etc.), proximity to other vendor locations, and the like, to ensure that there will not be pedestrian and street congestion or obstruction and in order to contribute as effectively as possible to the intent of this article.
(2)
Available spaces shall be assigned using the guidelines of this section, on a first come, first served basis from a waiting list of all approved applicants.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-113)
Sec. 22-274. - Suspension or revocation of permit.
(a)
A permit may be suspended for a period of time or revoked for the following conduct:
(1)
Violating any federal, state or local law or regulation.
(2)
Failing to permit any lawfully requested inspection by health officials or to comply with any lawful request of a police officer.
(3)
Failing to possess and properly display at all times the permits required under this article.
(4)
Having a display that is not in compliance with this article.
(5)
Vending in any area other than the space designated by the permit unless approved by the city manager.
(6)
Leaving any display overnight on any street or sidewalk or failing to remove any display during the hours which it is unattended.
(7)
Failing to keep the vendor location clear of trash or other debris or failing to pick up, remove and dispose of all trash or refuse remaining at the vendor location at the close of the business day.
(8)
Offering for sale any merchandise, goods or services other than those approved and identified on the permit.
(9)
Allowing any items relating to the operation of the vending business to be stored or placed anywhere other than in, on or under the display.
(10)
Keeping animals of any kind near the vendor location. This prohibition shall not apply to guide dogs.
(11)
Using a motorized vehicle for the purpose of street vending.
(12)
Using parking meters, utility poles, trees, shrubs, benches or other public property other than the vendor's approved display to advertise or promote the sale of goods, merchandise or services.
(13)
Misrepresenting any information required on any application for a permit, to provide the information required by this section, or failing to provide any relevant information sought by the city manager.
(14)
Violating any provision of this article.
(b)
If a permit is suspended or revoked, the permittee shall have the right to appeal the suspension or revocation to the mayor and council within ten working days of the suspension or revocation. The permittee shall be entitled at such a hearing to present evidence and cross examine opposing witnesses. The suspension or revocation of a permit owner shall not prevent any criminal prosecution that may arise from any violation of this Code.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-114)
Sec. 22-275. - Construction of this article with Charter and other laws, ordinances and regulations.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of the courts or the city to enforce any provisions of the Charter or other ordinances or regulations of the city, nor to prevent or punish violations. The powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by the Charter or by any other laws or ordinances. In the event of any conflicts of this article with any other ordinance, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(Ord. of 3-11-1996, § 21A-115)
Secs. 22-276—22-305. - Reserved.
