ARTICLE IV-A. - ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Amendment of 11-10-08(2), § 1, renumbered former Art. IV as Art. IV-A, to facilitate inclusion of § 2(Exh. A), which added Art. IV-B. See also the Code Comparative Table.
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 82.
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contract with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on expanding the power of municipal regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(5).

Sec. 22-141. - Granted.
The authority, right, permission and consent are granted to each electric supplier within the meaning of O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq., their successors, lessees and assigns, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this article for a period of 35 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the city as from time to time each such company may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for public or private use, and to reenter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as each such company may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of each such company, to ensure safe and efficient service. The foregoing notwithstanding, the company shall not include any entity with whom the city has a written franchise agreement.
(Code 1991, § 4-105; Ord. of 7-10-1995, § 2)
Sec. 22-142. - Franchise fees authorized.
The future use by any electric utility company of the streets, alleys, public places and other property of the city for the operation of any of its electric distribution systems, and the grant of the requisite street franchise rights, is expressly conditioned upon payment by that company of franchise fees pursuant to this article; and continued use and occupancy of such city property for that purpose without payment of such franchise fees shall be unlawful. The city shall be entitled to enforce compliance with this article by appropriate proceeding at law or in equity.
(Code 1991, § 4-105; Ord. of 7-10-1995, § 2)
Sec. 22-143. - Terms, conditions.
The rights, permission and consents contained in this article are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions:
(1)
Each electric utility company shall pay to the city on or before the 20th day of each month, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to all of such company's customers served within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding month. The four percent rate shall be reviewed at the first city council meeting in January of each year and may be changed by majority vote of the mayor and council to such other levels as are allowed or mandated by law. Such a rate change shall take effect on February 1 of the year in which such rate change is approved. The city shall provide the company with written notice of any such rate change.
(2)
The percentage of gross revenues shall be in lieu of all other license and business or occupation taxes, but shall not at any time be considered to interfere with or in any way prevent the collection of ad valorem taxes upon the property of the company in the same manner as all other property, real and personal, in the city is taxed.
(3)
If the city shall grant to any other electric utility the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those contained in this article, including the payment provisions of this article.
(4)
Each company shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless (including payment of the city's reasonable attorney's fees and court costs) the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, by such company, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting from such activity, for which the city would otherwise be liable; however, the city shall not be indemnified for damages arising from the willful misconduct of the city itself.
(5)
Each company shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power of the city.
(6)
a.
The grant of rights, permission and consents by the city contained in this article to any company is specifically conditioned upon the payment of all sums due the city from such company in accordance with the rate, conditions and payment dates set forth in subsection (1) of this section; and failure by any company to timely pay the franchise fees shall constitute a forfeiture of all rights granted to such company by this article.
b.
Each electric utility company's continued use and occupancy of the streets, alleys and public places of the city for the purposes stated in this article shall evidence that company's acceptance of the franchise granted by this article and shall render that company liable for payment of all fees required by subsection (1) of this section. In the event of a forfeiture for failure to comply with such requirements, the forfeiting company shall nevertheless remain liable for all sums accrued until such time as the streets are vacated due to such forfeiture.
(7)
The city clerk shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article, and shall have the power to prepare and provide for the collection of the fees required in this article.
(8)
All work done by any company upon the streets, alleys and public places of the city shall be done under the supervision of the mayor and council; and any sidewalk, street pavement or other city improvement which may be displaced, obstructed or destroyed by reason of such work shall be properly replaced, reopened or repaired by such company to the satisfaction of the mayor and council.
(Code 1991, § 4-105; Ord. of 7-10-1995, § 2)
