ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-25. - Legislative authority generally.
The city council shall exercise the legislative functions of the city, and may pass any ordinance or resolution that it deems best for the government of the city in the manner set forth in this chapter; provided that same is not in conflict with the Charter of the city, the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia, or the Constitution or laws of the United States.
(Code 2003, § 3-207)
Sec. 2-26. - Qualifications for office.
A person who is at least 18 years of age at the time of election shall be eligible for the office of mayor or city council member.
(Code 2003, § 3-202)
Sec. 2-27. - Meetings.
(a)
Meetings. The city council shall hold regular meetings on the first Monday of each month at 6:30 p.m. at the city hall, unless otherwise ordered by the city council; provided that the mayor may convene the city council whenever in his opinion the public business requires it, and he shall do so upon the application of two members of the city council. All meetings at which official actions are to be taken shall be open to the public. If, for any reason, any regularly scheduled meeting is cancelled, then such regular meeting automatically shall be held on the following Monday, at the same hour and place at which the cancelled meeting was to be held. A meeting automatically rescheduled pursuant to this provision shall itself be deemed a regular meeting subject to this provision.
(b)
Notice.
(1)
The mayor and city council shall prescribe the time, place, and dates of regular meetings of the mayor and city council. Such information shall be available to the general public and a notice containing such information shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place available to the public at the regular meeting place of the agency. Meetings shall be held in accordance with a regular schedule, but nothing in this subsection shall preclude an agency from canceling or postponing any regularly scheduled meeting. Whenever any meeting required to be open to the public is to be held at a time or place other than at the time and place prescribed for regular meeting, the mayor and city council shall give due notice thereof.
(2)
Due notice shall be the posting of a written notice for at least 24 hours at the place of regular meetings and giving of written or oral notice at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting to the legal organ in which notices of sheriff's sales are published in the county where regular meetings are held or at the option of the mayor and city council to a newspaper having a general circulation in said county at least equal to that of the legal organ; provided, however, that in counties where the legal organ is published less often than four times weekly, due notice shall be the posting of a written notice for at least 24 hours at the place of regular meetings and, upon written request from any local broadcast or print media outlet whose place of business and physical facilities are located in the county, notice by telephone or facsimile to that requesting media outlet at least 24 hours in advance of the called meeting.
(3)
When special circumstances occur and are so declared by the mayor and city council, the mayor and city council may hold a meeting with less than 24 hours' notice upon giving such notice of the meeting and subjects expected to be considered at the meeting as is reasonable under the circumstances including notice to said county legal organ or a newspaper having a general circulation in the county at least equal to that of the legal organ, in which event the reason for holding the meeting within 24 hours and the nature of the notice shall be recorded in the minutes. When any meeting of the city council is closed to the public, the chairperson or other person presiding over such meeting shall execute and file with the official minutes of the meeting a notarized affidavit stating under oath that the subject matter of the meeting or the closed portion thereof was devoted to matters within the exceptions provided by law and identifying the specific relevant exception.
(c)
Duty to attend. It shall be the duty of each member of the city council to attend each meeting of the city council, unless he is prevented by some unavoidable circumstance.
(Code 2003, § 3-204; Ord. of 11-1-2004(1))
State Law reference— Open meeting requirements, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1.
Sec. 2-28. - Compensation.
(a)
During his term of office, each member of the city council shall be paid the sum of $2,400.00 annually as compensation, subject to the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this section. Payment of compensation to members of the city council shall be made in 12 equal monthly installments of $200.00 each, payable monthly on the last regular monthly pay period for city employees.
(b)
In the event a member of the city council misses more than three regularly scheduled meetings and/or work sessions during a calendar year, then, for each such missed meeting in excess of three, the sum of $50.00 shall be deducted from the council member's next compensation payment, unless the absence is excused by majority vote of the remaining council members.
(c)
The provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall not be effective until after the taking of office of those elected at the next regular municipal election which is held immediately following the date on which this amendment to increase compensation is enacted.
(Code 2003, § 3-106(2)—(4); Ord. of 6-2-2014)
Secs. 2-29—2-59. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-60. - Rules for the conduct of business.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, edited by John Sherman (1993, Barnes & Noble, Inc.), shall govern the conduct of city council meetings.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(intro.))
Sec. 2-61. - Order of business.
The business of the city council shall be taken up for consideration and disposition in the following order:
(1)
Call to order by presiding officer.
(2)
Roll call.
(3)
Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
(4)
Petitions and communications.
(5)
Reports of standing committees.
(6)
Reports of special committees.
(7)
Unfinished business.
(8)
New business.
(9)
Adjournment.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(4))
Sec. 2-62. - Call to order.
All meetings of the city council shall be open to the public. The mayor, or, in his absence, the mayor pro tempore, shall take the chair at the hour appointed for any regular, temporarily adjourned, special, or called meeting, and shall immediately call the city council meeting to order.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(1))
Sec. 2-63. - Roll call.
Before proceeding with the business of the city council, the city clerk/treasurer or his deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of those present shall be entered in the minutes.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(2))
Sec. 2-64. - Reading of minutes.
Unless a reading of the minutes of a city council meeting is requested by a member of the city council, such minutes may be approved without a reading if the city clerk/treasurer has previously furnished each member with a copy thereof.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(5))
Sec. 2-65. - Reports by committees.
(a)
Any business coming before the city council concerning the subject matter of which any standing or special committee has jurisdiction may be referred to the proper committee for investigation and report. It shall be the duty of each standing or special committee, whenever required by the mayor or by the city council, or any member of the city council, to examine any matter referred to such committee, and make a report thereof at the next regular meeting of the city council, or show good cause why no report is made. Such reports shall not be in writing unless so directed by the presiding officer.
(b)
Each standing committee shall examine the matters within its jurisdiction and make such reports and recommendations from time to time as may be necessary.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(6))
Sec. 2-66. - Manner of addressing council.
No member, while the city council is in session, shall speak on any subject unless recognized by the presiding officer. Every speaker shall address the chair, and no member shall interrupt anyone who is speaking, except to call him to order or for explanation.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(7))
Sec. 2-67. - Limitations on addressing city council.
Any person not a member of city council who desires to address the city council shall first secure the permission of the presiding officer, and then shall step up in front of the rail, give his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, and direct his remarks to the city council as a body rather than to any particular member, limiting such remarks to five minutes unless additional time is granted by city council.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(8))
Sec. 2-68. - Ordinances, resolutions, regulations, contracts and inter-local agreements.
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, all ordinances, resolutions, contracts, and inter-local agreements of the city shall be prepared, approved, introduced, and adopted in the following manner:
(1)
Preparation. All ordinances shall be prepared by the city attorney. No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the city council unless ordered by a majority vote of the city council, or requested in writing by the mayor, or prepared by the city attorney on his own initiative.
(2)
Administrative staff approval. All ordinances, resolutions, and contract documents shall, before presentation to the city council, have been approved as to form and legality by the city attorney or his authorized representative, and shall have been examined and approved for administration by the mayor or his authorized representative where there are substantive matters of administration involved. All such instruments shall have first been referred to the head of the department under whose jurisdiction the administration of the subject matter of the ordinance, resolution, or contract document would involve and be approved by said department head; provided, however, that if approval is not given, then the same shall be returned to the mayor with a written memorandum of the reasons why such approval is withheld. In the event the questioned instrument is not redrafted to meet a department head objection, or objection is not withdrawn and approval in writing given, then the mayor shall so advise the city council and give the reasons advanced by the department head for withholding approval.
(3)
Effective date. Except as otherwise provided, no ordinance shall take effect until five days after the date of its publication, except a public emergency ordinance necessary for the protection of public health, public safety, public property, or the public peace may be made effective upon adoption.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(9))
Sec. 2-69. - Recording vote.
Whenever any member shall request it the yeas and nays of the members present shall be recorded on the minutes on any question taken.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(10))
Sec. 2-70. - Questions of order.
The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, but any council member who is dissatisfied with the decision may appeal to the city council in the manner provided by Roberts' Rules of Order for appealing from decisions of presiding officers.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(11))
Sec. 2-71. - Elections.
All elections by the city council shall be by ballot, and a majority vote of the whole city council shall be necessary to an election.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(12))
Sec. 2-72. - Executive session.
The city council may, at any time, upon call therefore by the presiding officer or upon motion duly carried by a council member, meet in executive session. Attendance at such sessions shall be limited to the mayor and members of city council and such invites as shall be invited with the unanimous consent of the mayor and city council.
(Code 2003, § 3-206(13))
Secs. 2-73—2-102. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-103. - Powers.
The mayor shall have the following powers:
(1)
Rule making. With the advice and consent of the city council, and advice of the city manager, to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies, and to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed, subject to the advice and consent of the city council and advice of the city manager.
(2)
Investigation. At the direction, advice and consent of the city council, to investigate and to examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for this purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the city council to aid in such investigations, examinations, or inquiries, and to report the results of such investigations and examinations to the city council and the city manager, or to the department head if appropriate to the purpose of the investigation; provided, however, that the mayor shall have no unilateral power to take disciplinary action as a result of any such investigation.
(Code 2003, § 3-303; Ord. of 11-1-2004(2))
Sec. 2-104. - Compensation.
(a)
The mayor shall receive compensation, expenses, and benefits as provided by ordinance and in accordance with O.C.G.A. title 36, ch. 35.
(b)
During his term of office, the mayor shall be paid the sum of $4,800.00 annually as compensation, subject to the provisions of subsections (c) and (d) of this section. Payment of compensation to the mayor shall be made in 12 equal monthly installments of $400.00 each, payable monthly on the last regular monthly pay period for city employees.
(c)
In the event the mayor misses more than three regularly scheduled meetings and/or work sessions during a calendar year, then, for each such missed meeting in excess of three, the sum of $50.00 shall be deducted from the mayor's next compensation payment, unless the absence is excused by majority vote of the council members.
(d)
The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall not be effective until after the taking of office of those elected at the next regular municipal election which is held immediately following the date on which this amendment to increase compensation is enacted.
(Code 2003, § 3-308; Ord. of 6-2-2014)
State Law reference— Authority fix compensation of mayor, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Secs. 2-105—2-121. - Reserved.
