ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— General powers relative to officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(1)—(3).

Sec. 2-227. - Departmental organization.
(a)
Departments. The administrative service of the city shall be divided into the following departments and heads thereof:
(1)
Police department.
(2)
Fire department.
(3)
Department of public works.
(b)
Appointment of directors. All directors shall be nominated by the city manager, with the advice and consent of city council. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency.
(c)
Removal of directors. The city council may remove department heads pursuant to section 3.10 of the City of Porterdale Charter.
(d)
Compensation. All directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(Code 2003, § 3-701; Ord. of 10-2-2006(1))
Sec. 2-228. - Police department.
(a)
The 2010 Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual is hereby adopted as the Official Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual, which shall govern the administrative policies and direction of the affairs and operation of the Porterdale Police Department. Said 2010 Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual hereby is incorporated by reference into this subsection, as if fully set out herein.
(b)
In the implementation of administrative policies and in the direction of the affairs and operations of the police department, the chief of police, with the advice and consent of the city manager, shall be authorized to make such changes to the provisions of the 2005 Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual as the chief of police may determine to be advisable; provided, however, that the city manager, in his discretion, may seek the advice and consent of the city council prior to the implementation of the changes. In all events, the city council shall be informed of any changes to the provisions of the 2005 Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual made by the city manager and chief of police under the authority of this subsection. The city council shall retain the authority to reverse or revise any changes to the provisions of the 2005 Porterdale Police Department Policy Manual made by the city manager and chief of police under the authority of this subsection, upon the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the council members present in a regular or called meeting.
(Code 2003, § 3-702; Ord. of 2-7-2005(3); Ord. of 7-7-2010)
State Law reference— Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act, O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-229. - Department of public works.
(a)
Authority of the department. Subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, the department head of the department of public works shall be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of the following:
(1)
Solid waste management under the provisions of chapter 20;
(2)
Water service under the provisions of chapter 28;
(3)
Sanitary and stormwater sewerage under the provisions of chapter 28;
(4)
Streets, curbs, and sidewalks under the provisions of chapter 22; provided, however, that nothing in this allocation of responsibility to administer and direct the affairs of the city with regard to streets, curbs, and sidewalks is intended to, nor shall be deemed to affect the responsibilities of the mayor and city council, city manager, police chief, and fire chief, as more particularly described in said chapter 22; and
(5)
Such other matters as may be from time to time authorized by the city council or city manager.
(b)
Development of standard operating procedures. The department head of the department of public works shall be responsible to develop, implement, and maintain standard operating procedures with respect to each of the public work affairs made subject to the authority of the department of public works; provided, however, that such standard operating procedures shall be subject to approval by the city manager and city council.
(Ord. of 10-2-2006(1))
Sec. 2-230. - Fire department.
(a)
The Porterdale Fire Department Operation Manual adopted June 19, 1989, and revised May 25, 1994, is incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.
(b)
The Porterdale Fire Department Drug and Alcohol Use Policy is incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Code 2003, § 3-705)
State Law reference— Georgia Fire Safety Standard and Firefighter Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 25-14-1 et seq.
Secs. 2-231—2-253. - Reserved.
