ARTICLE XI. - MASSAGE BUSINESSES[7]
Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Massage Therapy Practice Act, O.C.G.A. § 43-24A-1 et seq.; local regulation of massage, O.C.G.A. §§ 43-24A-22, 43-24A-23.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-490. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means any person over 18 years of age, other than a masseur, who renders any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
License means the authorization granted by the mayor and city council to allow a person to engage in the business of massage in this city.
Massage means any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for medical, hygienic, exercise, or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating with the hands or any instrument, or by the application of air, liquid, or vapor baths of any kind whatever.
Masseur means any person who engages in the practice of massage as herein defined. The use of the masculine gender shall include in all cases the feminine gender as well.
Masseur's permit means the permission granted by the mayor and city council to a person to engage in the practice of massage as defined herein.
Patron means any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he will pay money or give any other consideration therefor.
Recognized school means any school or institution of learning which has for its purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession, or work of massage, which school requires a resident course of study of not less than 70 hours before the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from such school following the successful completion of such course of study or learning.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(2))
Sec. 10-491. - Exceptions.
Nothing in this article applies to the practice of massage therapy of a massage therapist who is issued a license under the provisions of O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 24A. The provisions of this article shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums, or persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the laws of the state, or persons working under the direction of any such persons or in any such establishment, nor shall this section apply to barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(9))
Secs. 10-492—10-520. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 10-521. - License required.
Each person engaging in or carrying on the business of massage within the corporate limits of this city, as such term is defined in section 10-490, shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk/treasurer in the manner specified in this chapter. No municipality shall levy or collect any license, occupation, or professional tax upon practitioners of massage and physiotherapy except at the place where the practitioner maintains his principal office. No such levy shall exceed the sum of $200.00 per year or shall be assessed upon or collected from any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentalities of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(1))
Sec. 10-522. - Application.
Applications for a license to engage in the business of massage shall be made as provided in section 10-25, except that the application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The name, style, and designation under which the business or practice is to be conducted;
(2)
The business address and all telephone numbers where the business is to be conducted;
(3)
A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all masseurs and employees in the business and the name and residence addresses of the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business;
(4)
The following personal information concerning the applicant and the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business:
a.
Name, complete residence address, and residence telephone numbers;
b.
The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
c.
Written proof of age;
d.
Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
e.
Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the date of the application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
f.
The massage or similar business history and experience, including, but not limited to, whether or not such person previously operating in this or another city or state under license or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial, suspension, or revocation;
g.
All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violations, fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted, and the offense for which convicted, and the circumstances thereof;
h.
A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by the police chief or his authorized representatives; and
i.
Information on educational background, including a diploma, certificate, or other written proof or graduation from a recognized school by the applicant or by the person who shall be directly responsible for the operation and management of the massage business, if such person graduated from such a school;
(5)
Such other information, identification, and physical examination of the person as shall be deemed necessary by the police chief to discover the truth of the matters herein required to be set forth in the application;
(6)
Authorization for the city, its agents, and employees to seek information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the license;
(7)
The names and addresses of three adult residents of the county who will serve as character references, with said references being persons other than relatives and business associates; and
(8)
Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct, said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(3))
Sec. 10-523. - Public hearing.
Upon the filing of an application for a massage business license, the city clerk/treasurer shall fix a time and place for a public hearing thereon. Notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant individually and to the general public by publication of notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(5))
Sec. 10-524. - Inspection of premises.
(a)
All premises proposed to be used by licensees hereunder shall be inspected by the police chief or his authorized representatives prior to the issuance of a license for the purposes of ensuring that such premises comply with all the building and sanitation requirements set forth in the regulations and laws of the city and have adequate ventilation, heating, and illumination.
(b)
The police chief shall provide for the periodic inspection of all massage businesses to ensure that such establishments continue to operate in full conformity with all regulations and laws of this municipality.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(6))
Sec. 10-525. - Limitations on issuance.
No license to engage in the business of massage shall be issued if the police chief or the city clerk/treasurer finds that:
(1)
The correct license fee has not been tendered to the city, or, in the case of a check or bank draft, has not been honored with payment upon presentation.
(2)
The applicant or the manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business has been convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud, or allowing a person under the age of 18 years to come onto or remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur, employee, or patron.
(3)
Alcoholic beverages. No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide, or keep or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided, or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of any massage business.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(7))
Sec. 10-526. - License fee.
The annual business license fee for persons engaging in the business of massage in this municipality shall be set by resolution of the council.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(4))
Sec. 10-527. - Revocation/suspension of license and permit.
Any massage business license or masseur's permit issued under this section shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the police chief for violation of any provision of this chapter, or for any grounds that would warrant the denial of issuance of such permit in the first place. The chief, upon such revocation or suspension, shall state his reasons in writing, specifying the particular grounds for such revocation or suspension. The massage business must also comply with O.C.G.A. § 16-6-17.
(Code 2003, § 32-217(8))
Secs. 10-528—10-547. - Reserved.
