ARTICLE III. - PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-56. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee, whether a resident of this city or not, who engaged in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, boat or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler includes any person, whether a resident of this municipality or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products or provisions, who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car or other vehicle or conveyance.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(2))
Sec. 10-57. - Exemptions.
This article shall not be applicable to traveling salesmen or nonresident merchants as provided in O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 46, nor to newsboys, nor to bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, nor to bona fide charitable, religious or philanthropic organizations.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(3))
Sec. 10-58. - Loud noises and speaking devices.
No licensee under this article, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any other sound device, including any loudspeaking radio or amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(9))
Secs. 10-59—10-89. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 10-90. - License required.
Each peddler and itinerant merchant, as such terms are defined in section 10-56, who does business within this municipality shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk/treasurer in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(1))
Sec. 10-91. - Application.
Application for a license under this division shall be made as provided in section 10-90, except that such application shall contain the following additional information:
(1)
The fingerprints of the persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business, or, in lieu thereof, at least three letters of recommendation from reliable property owners in the county in which the business is to be conducted, certifying as to the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which establishes the good character and business responsibility of such persons to the satisfaction of the mayor and city council;
(2)
The place in the city where it is proposed to carry on the applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that said business shall be conducted;
(3)
The place, other than the permanent place of business of the applicant, where the applicant within the six months next preceding the date of said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which such business was conducted;
(4)
A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods, wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city; the invoice value and quality of such goods, wares, and merchandise; where the goods or property to be sold are manufactured or produced; and where such goods or products are located at the time said application is filed;
(5)
A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the city clerk/treasurer, copies of all said advertising, whether by handbills, circulars, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as exhibits thereto; and
(6)
Whether or not the persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor, or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(4))
Sec. 10-92. - Bond.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a transient or itinerant business as provided in this division, the applicant for such license shall file with the city clerk/treasurer a bond running to the city in the sum as determined by council, executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may be made in the State of Georgia; said bond to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of this city and the statutes of this state regulating and condemning the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of said ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practices on any person transacting such business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practices by the owners or by their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(5))
Sec. 10-93. - Service of process.
Before any license is issued to an applicant under this division, the applicant must file with the city clerk/treasurer either the name and permanent address of the applicant's agent for service of process or an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk/treasurer in the absence of another agent, as the applicants true and lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under the license. The applicant must consent and agree that service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent or city clerk/treasurer, and when so made will be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the applicant according to the law of this or any other state, and must waive all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city clerk/treasurer, the city clerk/treasurer must send to the licensee, at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of the process.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(6))
Sec. 10-94. - Fee established.
The business license fee for each peddler or itinerant merchant doing business in the city shall be set by resolution of the council.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(7))
Sec. 10-95. - Duty to exhibit.
All persons obtaining a license under the provisions of this division shall be required to exhibit such license at the request of any citizen.
(Code 2003, § 32-207(8))
Secs. 10-96—10-118. - Reserved.
