Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS

Sec. 8-1. - Technical codes.
There is hereby adopted the codes designated in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i)(I)—(VIII) as now or hereafter modified by the state.
Sec. 8-2. - Building permit fees.
(a)
Building permit fees shall be as established by section 2-1. Any building or structure owned by and constructed for the use of a local, state or federal government unit, agency or authority shall be exempt from the payment of building permit fees, but shall be subject to all other provisions of the building code, including a building permit.
(b)
Schedule of building permit fees.
(1)
On all buildings, structures or alterations requiring a building permit, the fee shall be paid as required at the time of filing of the application, in accordance with the schedule set forth in section 2-1.
(2)
The permit fee shall be assessed according to the square feet of floor area, heated or unheated, for each separate floor or level including basements, canopies, carports, porches and other areas under a roof. A separate building permit shall be issued for each separate structure.
(Ord. of 11-9-2006, att.)
Sec. 8-3. - Water conservation restrictions for plumbing fixtures.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(b)
The water efficiency requirements of the state construction code shall apply to any residential construction initiated after July 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(c)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of subsection (b) of this section when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings;
(2)
Such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this ordinance were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(d)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (c)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the town building inspector. A fee as set forth in section 2-1 shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(e)
This section shall be enforced by the office of the town building inspector. Citations for violation may be issued by the chief building inspector of the town.
(Ord. of 5-9-1991, §§ 1, 4—6)
