Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Livestock running at large or straying, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; permitting dogs in heat to roam or run free, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-6; Responsible Dog Ownership Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4; liability of owner or keeper of vicious or dangerous animal for injuries caused by animal, O.C.G.A. § 51-2-6.

Sec. 6-1. - Dogs constituting nuisance.
(a)
Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision of this section.
(b)
Complaint of nuisance; hearing. Any official or inhabitant of the town may direct a complaint of nuisance to the town police department, who shall investigate and may place the complaint before the municipal judge for a hearing upon the basis of the investigation. The municipal judge, after a ten-day notice to the party involved, shall hold a hearing thereon and, upon finding that a nuisance does exist, shall issue an order to the owner, agent in control of, or tenant in possession, stating that a nuisance has been found to exist and that the nuisance must be abated within so many hours or days as the municipal judge shall deem reasonable, having consideration for the nature of the nuisance and its effect on the public.
(c)
By town.
(1)
In any case where the owner, agent or tenant fails to abate the nuisance in the time specified, or where the owner, agent or tenant cannot be served with notice, or where the nature of the nuisance is such, in the opinion of the municipal judge, that it must be immediately abated, the municipal judge may issue an order to the town police department directing the nuisance to be abated. The town police department, in such case, shall keep record of the expenses and cost of abating same, and the costs shall be billed against the owner, agent or tenant for collection as for town revenues.
(2)
Other town departments shall assist the enforcement officers as is necessary in abating nuisances hereunder.
(d)
Offense; penalty.
(1)
It is hereby declared to be an offense for any owner, agent or tenant to maintain or allow a nuisance to exist. Each day a nuisance is continued shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the remedies expressed herein, violations may be punishable as provided in section 1-7.
(2)
The following shall constitute a nuisance: maintaining any dog which is not tagged, any dog which is running loose, or generally classified as a disturbance.
(Ord. of 3-2-1989)
