Chapter 12 - BUSINESS AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Limitation on expanding the power of municipal regulation over any business activity regulated by the public service commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(5); business and occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Business occupation tax ordinance.
The mayor and council, having held a meeting and public vote on its regularly held meeting on December 8, 2020, exercises its authority pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6(b) and 6-35-3(a) to provide for the levy, assessment and collection of occupation taxes on those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations having one or more locations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), intro. ¶)
Sec. 12-2. - Levy and scope.
(a)
For the year 2021, and succeeding years thereafter, each person engaged in any business, trade, profession, or occupation in the city, whether with a location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade, profession or occupation. The occupation tax shall be determined in accordance with the schedule set forth in this chapter.
(b)
The occupation tax levied herein is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling.
(c)
Any regulatory tax levied herein upon certain occupations and businesses is an exercise of the police power of the city.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 1)
Sec. 12-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Administrator means the city clerk.
Business means any person who, in the city, engages in, causes to be engaged in, or represents himself to be engaged in, any occupation or activity with the object of gain, benefit, or advantage, either directly or indirectly; any person who owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located in city. This shall include any person advertising by any means, including, but not limited to, signs, cards, circulars, newspapers, etc., that he is engaged in a business of any kind, and shall include the owners or operators of boardinghouses and short-term rentals. No business required by this chapter to secure an occupation tax shall be exempt from the payment of said occupation tax on the ground that the business is operated for a charitable purpose unless 50 percent or more of the gross receipts from the business are devoted to a charitable purpose.
Date of commencing operations means the date on which a business heretofore not engaged in commercial transactions within the city becomes engaged in business.
Dominant business activity means that business activity which is the major and principal source of income of the business.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, an IRS W-2 form, but not an IRS 1099 form.
Engaged in business or carrying on business means doing or performing of any act of selling any goods or services, or soliciting business, or offering any goods or services for sale primarily in an attempt to make a profit, including selling or performing services of the character of a wholesaler or retailer, or being involved in any of the functions performed as a manufacturer, or renting real or personal property; all of the foregoing performed either as an owner, operator or agent of any business, trade, profession, or occupation within the city.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction worksite which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
Manufacturing means a person who, either directly or by contracting with others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufactures for sale or commercial use any articles, substances or commodities, including, but not limited to, the following: materials upon which commercial activities have been applied, by hand or machinery, so that as a result thereof a new substance of trade or commerce is produced; the production or fabrication of special or custom-made articles; the making, fabrication, processing, refining, mixing, slaughtering, packing, aging, curing, preserving, canning, preparing and freezing of fresh foods, fruits, vegetables and meats.
Nonprofit means any organization that is exempt from federal income taxes under title 26 USC 501.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business and enacted by a local government as a revenue raising ordinance or resolution.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate or other group or combination acting as a unit, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organization which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of professions and occupations means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation as designated by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c). For the purposes of this chapter, the term "practitioners of professions and occupations" shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the city regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
Retailer means a person who sells to consumers or any other person for any purpose, other than for resale, any tangible personal property.
Services means the accommodating or performing a duty or work by a person utilizing time or talents for direct or indirect remuneration.
Wholesaler means a person who sells to jobbers or to persons, other than consumers, any tangible personal property.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 2)
Sec. 12-4. - Occupation tax levied.
(a)
A nonrefundable annual occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the city or upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, based upon the following criteria:
(1)
The number of employees of the business or practitioner; or
(2)
A flat fee for short-term rentals.
(b)
Businesses and practitioners shall be required to pay an occupation tax to only one local government in this state, the local government in which the largest dollar volume of business is conducted or service is performed by the individual business or practitioner.
(c)
Businesses and practitioners must provide proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business's or practitioner's sales or services in this state, for the business or practitioner to be exempt from local occupation tax in this state.
(d)
An occupation tax shall not be levied in any other manner except as described in this chapter.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 3)
Sec. 12-5. - Occupation tax schedule.
(a)
During 2021, there is hereby levied upon each person engaged in or carrying on business in the city an annual occupation equal to the schedule of license fees levied by the city during 2020.
(b)
Beginning on January 1, 2022, and for each year thereafter, there is hereby levied upon each person engaged in or carrying on business in city an annual occupation tax based upon the number of employees using the schedule set forth below:
EXPAND
Bracket No. No. Employees Tax Amount
1 0—1 $50.00
2 2—3 $131.00
3 4—6 $327.00
4 7—10 $540.00
5 11—15 $780.00
6 16—20 $959.00
7 21—35 $1,229.00
8 36—50 $1,649.00
9 51—75 $2,038.00
10 76—100 $2,578.00
11 101—150 $3,058.00
12 151—250 $3,567.00
13 251 and over $3,957.00
  (c)
Determination of number of employees. The number of employees of the business or practitioner as computed on a full-time position basis or full-time position equivalent basis, provided that for the purposes of this computation an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce full time position equivalents. For the purpose of this provision, the business shall figure its number of employees based on the calendar year operations preceding the levy of this tax or for the period if in business for less than one year.
(d)
Flat fee for short-term rental. Owners of short-term rentals shall pay an occupation tax of $50.00 for each short-term rental operated within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 4)
Sec. 12-6. - Administrative fee.
In addition to the occupation tax levied under section 12-5, an administrative fee in an amount to be determined by the mayor and council from time to time shall be assessed for each business assessed the annual occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 5)
Sec. 12-7. - Exemptions; business or organizations exempted from occupation tax.
(a)
The following persons and businesses are not covered by the provisions of this chapter but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Individual farmers who raise, grow or cultivate edible food from the soil of the state; provided, however, farm, milk, or other farmer cooperatives are not exempted when they engage in selling goods and/or services to the public in competition with persons taxed by virtue of this chapter.
(2)
Established churches, religious, charitable, and fraternal organizations chartered or operated for nonprofit purposes and which are not engaged in daily selling of goods or services to the public in competition with persons taxed by virtue of the provisions of this chapter.
(3)
Persons exempted from taxation by virtue of the Constitution or any statue of the United States or state. Those persons shall possess and display at their places of business a certificate of exemption that may be obtained from the administrator by application of a form provided by same. The applicant for exemption shall clearly state the provision of this chapter or other provision of law under which the applicant claims exemption. The certificate shall contain sufficient facts for the administrator to determine whether the applicant is entitled to the exemption. The certificate of exemption shall remain valid and the business need not reapply for an annual certificate of exemption as long as the conditions entitling the business to the exemption remain the same. The application for the certificate of exemption shall be made under oath. The certificate of exemption shall not exempt any business from complying with the duty to register.
(4)
Any person exempted from the requirement of paying an occupation tax by any ordinance heretofore or hereafter passed by the mayor and council.
(5)
Any person engaging in casual or isolated activity and commercial transactions, where such involve personal assets and are not the principal occupation of the individual, provided that this exemption shall not apply to boardinghouses or short-term rentals.
(6)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(7)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, chapter 3.
(8)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(9)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(10)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(11)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(12)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(13)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(14)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(15)
In order to promote economic development of the city by the encouragement of trade and merchandise shows in the community, all exhibitors at trade and merchandise shows which have paid a regulatory fee shall be exempt from occupation taxes imposed by this chapter.
(b)
No business required by this chapter to secure an occupation tax shall be exempt from the payment of said occupation tax on the ground that the business is operated for a charitable purpose unless 50 percent or more of the gross receipts from the business are devoted to a charitable purpose.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 6)
Sec. 12-8. - Determination of occupation tax and administrative fee.
If a business is begun for the first time on or after January 1 of any calendar year, the occupation tax levied and assessed in this chapter against the business shall be determined as follows:
(1)
In the event that any person commences business on any date after January 1, the occupation tax and administrative fee shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business.
(2)
The administrator, shall issue an occupation tax certificate for the calendar year in which the application is submitted, and the occupation tax shall be paid in accordance with sections 12-5(a) and 12-6 except that it shall be based upon: If a new business begins for the first time after July 1 of the calendar year, then the occupation tax shall be 50 percent of the amount in the schedule set forth in section 12-5(a). Administrative fees shall not be reduced for businesses commencing operation on or after July 1.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 7)
Sec. 12-9. - Professionals.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees under section 12-5; or
(2)
A fee in an amount to be determined by the mayor and council from time to time per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location. The per practitioner tax applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state law.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 8)
Sec. 12-10. - Practitioners practicing exclusively for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a city or county of the state or instrumentalities of the United States, the state or the local government shall not be required to pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 9)
Sec. 12-11. - Occupation tax certificate; evidence of state license required; to be displayed.
(a)
All persons shall exhibit and display the occupation tax certificate issued to them in some conspicuous place in their business establishment at the address such certificate was issued. Any transient or non-transient person doing business within the city shall carry said certificate either upon his person or in any vehicle or conveyance which is used in such business and such person shall exhibit the same to any authorized enforcement officer in the city when so requested.
(b)
Each person who is listed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the city certificate may be issued.
(c)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 10)
Sec. 12-12. - False registration.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, proprietor, manager, executive officer or employee of any business coming within the provisions of this chapter, to make a false registration for such business, or to give or file, or direct the giving or filing, of any false information with respect to the occupation tax due under the provisions of this chapter or upon which any occupation tax due under the provisions of this chapter is based.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 11)
Sec. 12-13. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first before the issuance of an occupation tax certificate show evidence of such qualification.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 12)
Sec. 12-14. - Duty to register business.
(a)
A form or notice shall be mailed to all known persons engaged in or carrying on business in the city at the beginning of the year for registering each business. However, failure to receive such form or notice shall not release any person from any tax or penalties due under this chapter, nor shall such failure to operate to extend any time limit set by the provisions of this chapter. The registration shall be signed and sworn to by the appropriate persons.
(b)
Each business operated in the city shall identify their dominant activity and any other lines of business at that same location address.
(c)
For the purpose of this chapter, if a business is conducted at more than one location or place within the city, each location or place shall be considered a separate business and must be registered separately and the occupation tax shall be separately paid.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 13)
Sec. 12-15. - Payment of occupation tax and regulatory fee; penalties for late payment.
(a)
When due. Occupation taxes and regulatory fees levied in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be due and payable on or before April 1 of each calendar year or, in case of new business, upon commencement of that business. In the case of attorneys at law starting new practices of law, occupation taxes levied in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be due and payable within six months of the date of commencing operations.
(b)
Additional amounts. For any reason during the year, it is determined that a larger occupation tax should have been assessed, then the additional amount so assessed shall be deemed to have been due and payable on April 1 of such year. All monies that would have been paid, if the correct amount had been assessed at the appropriate time, shall be considered past due and all penalties and interest provided for herein shall apply.
(c)
Assessment of delinquent occupation tax and fees. Any person who fails to pay the occupation tax, administrative or regulatory fee imposed upon him by this chapter for 90 days from the due date of the tax or fee, shall be assessed a delinquent charge of ten percent of the amount of the tax and/or fees due.
(d)
Interest. All taxes, regulatory fees, administrative fees, and delinquent charges imposed by this chapter that are not paid by the due date shall bear interest at a rate of 1.5 percent per month from the due date until paid.
(e)
Collection of penalties and interest. Penalties and interest imposed by this section shall be collected in the same manner as the tax imposed by this chapter.
(f)
Manner of payment. Payment of the tax imposed by this chapter shall be made by mail with personal check, company check, money order, bank draft, certified check, cashier's check, or cash. If payment is made by check, the tax or fee shall not be deemed paid unless the check is honored in the usual course of business.
(g)
Postmark. Payments by mail shall be postmarked no later than 12:00 midnight of April 1 to be accepted without penalty.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 14)
Sec. 12-16. - Issuance and levy of executions for collection.
In addition to other remedies available to state, counties and municipalities for the collection of special taxes, occupation taxes, and license fees due the state, counties, and municipalities from persons subject to the occupation tax who fail or refuse to pay the tax or fee, the administrator shall issue executions against the delinquent taxpayers for the amount of the taxes or fees due when the taxes or fees become due.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 15)
Sec. 12-17. - Determination upon failure to file return.
(a)
If any person fails to make a return, the administrator shall make an estimate of the number of employees of the businesses in the city which are subject to tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the administrator. Written notice shall be given as follows: The administrator, or designee, shall give to the operator written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the administrator. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(b)
The amount of the determination shall bear interest and penalty as required in section 12-15.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 16)
Sec. 12-18. - Unpaid taxes levied under repealing.
This chapter does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. Those parts of ordinances heretofore passed providing for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax due, or for imposing fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to comply with any other provisions thereof, shall continue and remain in force and effect until such tax or assessment shall be full paid.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 17)
Sec. 12-19. - Occupation tax certificate and regulatory fee certificate not transferable.
An occupation tax certificate and/or regulatory fee certificate shall not be transferable, and a transfer of ownership shall be considered in the same light as the termination of such business and the establishment of a new business. Therefore, a new certificate shall be required for each new owner of the business.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 18)
Sec. 12-20. - Duty to keep information current.
Any person required by this chapter to register his business shall notify the administrator, in writing, within 30 days of the following changes:
(1)
Any change of address of the business, in which case the same occupation tax certificate shall be valid at the new location;
(2)
Any change of ownership, in which case the transfer shall be treated as the termination of one business and the establishment of a new business for the purposes of this chapter;
(3)
The termination of any business.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 19)
Sec. 12-21. - Inspection of books and accounts.
(a)
Upon request by the administrator or his authorized representative, any person holding a certificate from the city shall open to the administrator his place of business for the purpose of enabling the administrator or his representative to ascertain and gain such information as may be necessary for determination of the proper classification of such certificate holder for occupational tax purposes and determination of the correct amount of occupation tax to which such person is subject. Upon request by the administrator or his authorized representative, any person holding an occupation tax certificate from the city shall furnish the administrator or his authorized representative, during regular business hours at such person's place of business, all books of account, payroll records, invoices, papers, reports and memorandum containing entries showing amount of purchases, sales receipts, inventory and other information, ascertained and from which the correct amount of fee to which he is subject may be determined, including exhibition of bank deposit books, bank statements, copies of sale tax reports to the state, copies of state income tax reports and federal income tax reports.
(b)
It shall further be the duty of all taxpayers hereunder to secure, preserve, maintain, and keep for a period of three years the records and documents enumerated and referred to in this section.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 20)
Sec. 12-22. - Confidentiality.
Except in case of judicial proceedings, proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax hereby levied and assessed or where the city is otherwise required by law to produce information or records, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, or agent to divulge or make known in any manner the information required to be submitted under the terms of this chapter. All information so submitted shall be confidential, and open only to the officials, employees, or agents using such information for the purpose of the occupation levy and assessment and the collection of same. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the mayor and commission shall be classified as employees. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the disclosure of the tax levied and assessed upon any person, or the name, address, and type of business of such taxpayer. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit publication by the city of statistics classified so as to prevent the identification of particular returns.
(1)
The administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter for the levy, assessment and collection and penalties imposed herein.
(2)
In carrying out its responsibilities hereunder, the administrator shall have the following duties:
a.
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for registration of a business, and for the submission of required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of the ordinance;
b.
To issue to each person an occupation tax certificate within a reasonable time after the payment of the occupation tax assessed and levied in this chapter; provided, however, where under other ordinances of the city, permits, certifications, and compliance with the enumerated conditions are required for the operation of the business, the administrator shall not issue said certificate until the applicant exhibits to the administrator such obtained permits, certifications and compliances;
c.
To audit periodically, and when deemed necessary by the administrator, the books and records of the business subject to the provisions of this chapter, and to require the submission of such additional information as may be necessary in order to correctly determine the amount of the occupation tax due and to ensure the collection of same;
d.
To issue in any year without a charge an occupation tax certificate when an applicant exhibits to the administrator such permits, certifications and compliance under the law of the state or United States, would entitle the applicant to such; and
e.
To make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter or other laws of the city and the state or the constitution of this state for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the collection of the occupation tax and fees hereunder.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 21)
Sec. 12-23. - Compliance with other ordinances and laws.
All businesses are required to comply with the provisions of all ordinances of the city and other laws and the issuance of a occupation tax certificate to any business pursuant to this chapter shall not authorize that business to engage in or carry on business or to perform any other activity in violation of state or federal law or regulations and other ordinances of the city nor shall it relieve that business from obtaining any certificate or permit required by the provision of other laws or ordinances.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 22)
Sec. 12-24. - Severability.
If any section, provision or clause of any part of this chapter shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if the provisions of any part of this chapter as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such individuality shall not be construed to effect the portions of this chapter not so held to be invalid, or the application of this chapter to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared as the intent that this chapter would have been adopted had such invalid portion not been included herein.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 23)
Sec. 12-25. - Violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter; any person committing any offense made unlawful herein; any person engaging in business within the city without first having obtained the occupation tax certificate, as herein provided for; and any person engaging in business within the city without first registering such business, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 1-9. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. of 12-8-2020(2), § 24)
Secs. 12-26—12-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - BUSINESSES REGULATED

Sec. 12-50. - Insurance businesses, license required.
Each person, agency, firm or company doing an insurance business within the municipal corporate limits shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk in the manner specified in this article.
(Code 1991, § 32-301)
Sec. 12-51. - Construction contractors.
(a)
Plumbers. No master, contracting, or journeyman plumber, as such terms are defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-14-2, shall be permitted to engage in any plumbing business in this municipality, unless such person shall hold a valid certificate of qualification issued to him by the state construction industry licensing board, division of master and journeyman plumbers.
(b)
Electrical contractors. No electrical contractor, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-14-2, shall be permitted to engage in any electrical contracting business in this municipality unless such person shall hold a valid license issued to him by the state construction industry licensing board, division of electrical contractors.
(c)
Conditioned air contractors. No conditioned air contractor, as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 43-14-2, shall be permitted to engage in any conditioned air contracting business in this municipality unless such person shall hold a valid certificate of qualification issued to him by the state construction industry licensing board, division of conditioned air contractors or by the county.
(d)
General contractors. All general contractors who contract with this municipality for any public work exceeding $1,000.00 in amount shall be required to obtain a performance and payment bond in the amount and manner specified by state law.
(Code 1991, § 32-302)
Sec. 12-52. - Peddlers and itinerant merchants.
(a)
License required. Each peddler and itinerant merchant who does business in this municipality shall be required to obtain a license from the city clerk.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Itinerant merchant means any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares, and merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad box car, boar, or public room in any hotel, lodginghouse, apartment, or shop within the city for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
Peddler means any person, whether a resident of this city or not, traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place-to-place, from house-to-house, or from street-to-street, carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden produce, farm products, or provisions who offers and exposes the same for sale, or who, without travelling from place-to-place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance.
(c)
Exemptions. This section shall not be applicable to traveling salesmen or nonresident merchants as provided in O.C.G.A. § 43-46-6, nor to newsboys, nor to bona fide merchants who merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, nor to bona fide charitable, religious, or philanthropic organizations.
(d)
Bond. Prior to the issuance of a transient business license, the mayor may in his discretion require a bond to be posted. Such bond shall be payable to the city in an amount deemed sufficient to reimburse citizens of this city for damages growing out of transactions with transient merchants.
(Code 1991, § 32-303)
Sec. 12-53. - Charitable solicitors.
(a)
Registration required. Any person who wishes to solicit donations or contributions for, or sells any insignia or novelty on the streets of the city on behalf of, or under the sponsorship of, any charitable, religious, social, patriotic, or civic club or organization shall be required to register such solicitation or sale with the chief of police at least 48 hours in advance of such event and to obtain a permit therefor.
(b)
Exemption. This section shall not apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are in the form of collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such organization or church.
(Code 1991, § 32-304)
Sec. 12-54. - Yard sales.
Any persons who regularly engage in yard or garage-type sales shall be required to first obtain a business license. For purposes of this subsection, the term "regularly" means more than twice annually.
(Code 1991, § 32-305)
Sec. 12-55. - Other activities.
Every other legally engaged in and income producing activity which falls within the specifications of this article shall require a business license prior to its commencement.
(Code 1991, § 32-306)
