Chapter 24 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances generally, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; power of municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise without limitation or impairment by provisions of state law, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9; powers conferred by this article shall be in addition to and supplemental to the powers conferred by municipal ordinances or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-16; unlawful junkyards as nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 32-6-246.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Nuisance means anything which causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage or another, provided that the hurt, inconvenience, or damage complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but rather such as would affect an ordinary reasonable person; and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance.
Nuisance per se means an act, occupation, or structure which is a nuisance at all times and under any circumstances, regardless of location of surroundings.
Private nuisance means a nuisance limited in its injurious effects to one of a few individuals.
Public nuisance means a nuisance which damages all persons who come within the sphere of its operation, though it may vary in its effects on individuals.
(Code 1991, § 33-101)
Secs. 24-2—24-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABATEMENT

Sec. 24-21. - General proceedings to abate.
Any nuisance existing within the corporate limits of this city, except for a nuisance hereinafter excepted, shall be abated in the manner set forth in this article.
(1)
Initiation. Proceedings to abate a nuisance, whether public or private, shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint with the city clerk, which such complaint shall state the nature and location of the nuisance and the name and address of the complainant or complainants. In the case of a private nuisance, the complaint shall be filed by the person injured by the nuisance; in the case of a public nuisance, the complaint shall be filed on behalf of the public by a city official or by a citizen specially injured by the nuisance.
(2)
Notice of hearing. Upon the filing of a complaint as hereinabove provided, the city clerk shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the premises upon which the nuisance complained of is located and, if the person maintaining the same be a different person from the owner, then also to the person maintaining the nuisance, calling on such person to show cause, either personally or by attorney, at the time and place directed by the city clerk, why such activity alleged to be a nuisance should not be ordered abated and removed by the mayor and council. Such notice shall be served at least two days prior to the date set for the hearing by any police officer of the city, and shall be made either personally or by leaving a copy at the party's most notorious place of abode. A copy of such notice shall also be mailed to the complainant or complainants.
(3)
Order of abatement. If after hearing all the evidence the mayor and council should decide that the activity complained of is a nuisance, the mayor shall issue an order directed to the chief of police or any member of the police force, commanding that the nuisance be abated. A copy of such order of abatement shall be served on the party maintaining the nuisance.
(4)
Effect of noncompliance. In the event of a refusal to comply with the order of abatement issued by the mayor, the person maintaining the nuisance shall be subject to arrest for violation of state law.
(Code 1991, § 33-102)
Sec. 24-22. - Summary abatement.
Nothing contained in the foregoing section shall prevent the mayor and council from summarily and without notice ordering the abatement of or abating any nuisance that is a nuisance per se in the law or where the case is an urgent one and the health and safety of the public or a portion thereof is in imminent danger.
(Code 1991, § 33-103)
Secs. 24-23—24-47. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SOLID WASTE ACCUMULATION

Sec. 24-48. - Disposal and storage of waste; liability.
The responsibility for lawfully disposing of solid waste shall be with the individual citizen. No person shall keep or store solid waste outside of any residence or building, except in watertight containers with a securely fastened lid.
(Code 1991, § 12-101)
Sec. 24-49. - Public nuisance.
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. The city by written notice shall notify the owner or occupant of any premises with such accumulation to remove it within two weeks or be deemed in violation of this article. A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day the condition continues.
(Code 1991, § 12-102)
Sec. 24-50. - Disposal sites.
All disposal of solid waste shall be at disposal sites operated in accordance with state laws and with rules and regulations of the state department of natural resources, and at no other place.
(Code 1991, § 12-103)
