ARTICLE II. - NOISE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Limits on sound volume produced by radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14.

Sec. 26-31. - General prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise that unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § I)
Sec. 26-32. - Exceptions.
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this article:
(1)
Noises of safety signals and warning devices.
(2)
Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
(3)
Noises resulting from emergency work, to be construed as work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity, or work required to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § III)
Sec. 26-33. - Enumeration.
The acts contained in this article, among others, shall constitute a violation of this article; but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
Sec. 26-34. - Horns; signaling devices.
The following shall be a violation of this article:
(1)
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the city except as a danger warning.
(2)
The creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time.
(3)
The use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity.
(4)
The use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust.
(5)
The use of any signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(1))
Sec. 26-35. - Radios, phonographs, other machines or devices that produce or reproduce sound.
The use, operation or permitting the play, use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who is a voluntary listener shall be a violation of this article. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(2))
Sec. 26-36. - Loudspeakers; amplifiers; other devices for production or reproduction of sound for advertising.
The use, operation or permitting the play, use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or city council shall be a violation of this article. Announcements over loudspeakers can be made only by an in-person announcer, and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(3))
Sec. 26-37. - Yelling; shouting; hooting; whistling; singing.
Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-38. - Animals and birds.
The keeping of any animal or bird that will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making long, continual or frequent noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(9))
Cross reference— Animals, ch. 10.
Sec. 26-39. - Steam whistle.
The blowing of any train whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-40. - Exhausts.
The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(10))
Sec. 26-41. - Defect in vehicle or load.
The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise shall be a violation of this article.
Cross reference— Traffic, ch. 50.
Sec. 26-42. - Loading; unloading; opening boxes.
The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or in connection with the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-43. - Construction or repairing of buildings.
The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair, of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the city building official, shall be a violation of this article. Such permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and may be renewed by the mayor and council for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the city council determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the council may grant permission for such work to be done from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(4))
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.
Sec. 26-44. - Schools; courts; churches; hospitals.
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while they are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institutions, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions, shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(6))
Sec. 26-45. - Hawkers; peddlers; vendors.
The shouting and crying of hawkers, peddlers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(7))
Sec. 26-46. - Noises to attract attention.
The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(8))
Sec. 26-47. - Transportation of metal rails, pillars or columns.
The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-48. - Piledrivers, hammers, other such appliances.
The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, without a special permit from the city council shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-49. - Blowers.
The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise, shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-50. - Sound trucks.
The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes and the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours or in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance shall be a violation of this article.
Sec. 26-51. - Vehicle repair in residential areas.
The repairing, rebuilding, or testing of any motor vehicle between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within any residential area in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the residents of the area shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § II(5))
Sec. 26-52. - Injunctions.
The operation or maintenance of any device, vehicle, or machinery in violation of any provision of this article which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of residents of the city shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance, and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Sec. 26-53. - Complaints; initiation of proceedings.
Proceedings to abate prohibited noises, whether public or private, shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint with the city police department. Such complaint shall state the nature and location of the noise and the name and address of the complainant or complainants. In the case of a private noise violation, the complaint shall be filed by the person or persons injured by the noise. In the case of a public noise violation, the complaint shall be filed on behalf of the public by a city official.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § IV(1))
Sec. 26-54. - Notice of hearing.
Upon the filing of a complaint under this article, the city police department shall issue a citation with such citation being bound over to municipal court.
(Ord. of 4-4-2000, § IV(2))
Secs. 26-55—26-90. - Reserved.
