Chapter 14 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.

Sec. 14-1. - Maximum term of appointed office for municipal court judge; agreement.
(a)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge of the municipal court unless he or she shall be in compliance with the requirements of state law on qualifications to serve in such office, including but not limited to compliance with all applicable training requirements.
(b)
All judges of the municipal court for the Municipal Court of Ball Ground shall be appointed by a resolution of the city council that adopts or approves an agreement with the judge. This agreement shall include a term of service of one year. The agreement shall describe the obligations of the judge and the independence of the court, and it shall identify obligations of the judge and of the city for oversight and management of court staff and court service providers. The judge shall be an independent contractor of the city during the term of the agreement.
(c)
The judge is solely responsible for judicial decisions. Judicial decisions include, but are not limited to, establishment of a standard bail schedule, determination of bail in individual cases, determination of financial ability, conditions of probation, determination of liability, and determination of eligibility for indigent defense and for alternatives to monetary penalties including community service and penalty or fine reductions.
(d)
The judge is responsible for notifying the city manager of any resources or process changes that are required or appropriate in order for the court to operate in accordance with applicable law.
(e)
Unless prohibited by the agreement, the municipal court judge may engage in the private practice of law; provided, however, a judge may not appear and represent a client before the court.
(f)
A judge of the municipal court shall serve for the designated term in the agreement but may be removed from the position, and the agreement terminated during the term, by a two-thirds vote of the entire membership of the city council or upon action taken by the Georgia Judicial Qualifications Commission for:
(1)
Willful misconduct in office;
(2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties;
(3)
Habitual intemperance;
(4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute; or
(5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties, which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
(Code 2010, § 2-3-1; Ord. of 2-7-2019 (1))
Sec. 14-2. - Clerk.
The mayor and council shall designate a clerk of the municipal court, who shall keep such records and make such reports as required by the mayor and council or the judge. The council may designate the city clerk or other municipal employee to serve as clerk of the court.
(Code 2010, § 2-3-2)
State Law reference— Municipal court clerk training, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-13.
