Chapter 24 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal street systems generally, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Street or sidewalk repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person, firm or corporation making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening. Any person, firm or corporation, neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city clerk, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 24-2. - Sidewalk construction.
No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or corporation, of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from the city.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-6)
Secs. 24-3—24-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 24-23. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 24-24. - Excavations; leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a permit under the sections of this article to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of work.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-5)
Secs. 24-25—24-51. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 24-52. - Required.
No person, firm or corporation shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles or for any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the city clerk. A permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city but in the event that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city clerk and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 24-53. - Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in section 24-52, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 24-54. - City indemnified.
Any person, firm or corporation obtaining a permit as provided for in sections 24-52 and 24-53 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Code 2010, § 4-1-3)
Secs. 24-55—24-81. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PARADES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 24-82—24-105. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 24-106. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator. The city clerk shall be the administrator for the receipt and processing of applications for a permit for a private organization or group of private persons to hold a parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other use of public property for private purposes. The city clerk may be assisted by other employees of the clerk's office.
Private organization or group of private persons means a private organization or group of persons shall be any firm, partnership, corporation, association, or group of individuals more than three in number, or their representatives, acting as a unit.
Private purpose means a private purpose shall be any purpose not commanded or directed by statute, ordinance, or other regulation to be performed by the state, county, city or other governmental entity.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-1)
Sec. 24-107. - Required.
Every private organization or group of private persons who wish to use public property for private purposes in holding a parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other activity within this city is hereby required to have a permit from the city for the privilege of engaging in any such activity within the corporate limits, unless city permitting is prohibited under state law or the activity is exempted by this Code.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-2)
Sec. 24-108. - Application fee.
Every private organization or group of private persons required to procure a permit under the provisions of this Code shall submit an application for the permit to the administrator, which application shall conform to the requirements of this section in addition to any other provisions of this Code.
(1)
Unless otherwise provided in this Code, each application shall be a written statement upon forms provided by the city and submitted not less than 60 days before the day of the parade, assembly, demonstration, road closing, or other activity is proposed by the applicant.
(2)
Each application shall contain the following information:
a.
Name and home address of the applicant if an individual, or home office address if a corporation or partnership;
b.
Time and place where the proposed activity is to be carried on, including routes of passage of parades or other processions;
c.
Kind and class of activity to be carried on;
d.
Names and home addresses of the partners, if a partnership;
e.
Names and home addresses of the officers and directors, if a corporation;
f.
Any additional information which the administrator may find reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this article which may include a complete record of all arrests and convictions against the applicant and every partner, officer or director of the applicant for violations of any and all laws and ordinances of the city, state or federal government other than minor traffic violations.
(3)
Each application shall he signed and sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer if a corporation.
(4)
All information furnished or secured under the authority of this article shall be kept in strict confidence by the city; shall not be subject to public inspection; and shall be utilized solely by the officers of the city responsible for administering the provisions of this article.
(5)
False statements on any application for a license shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the permit or denial of the application.
(6)
Any application, permit and registration fees as fixed from time to time by the mayor and council required under this Code shall accompany the application.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-3)
Sec. 24-109. - Administration of article.
The administrator shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the application and issuance of permits under this article.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-4)
Sec. 24-110. - Duties of administrator.
The administrator, or an authorized representative, shall have, among others, the following duties:
(1)
To prepare and provide the necessary forms for the application for a permit and for the submission of any required information as may be necessary to properly administer and enforce the provisions of this article.
(2)
To review the application for completeness, collect whatever fee may be required, and, where appropriate, receive the approval in writing of the department of transportation, state highway patrol, chief of police and the sheriff, or any other necessary public officer for the requested activity.
(3)
To submit the completed application and associated documents or other information to the mayor and council for action on the application.
(4)
Upon approval of the application by the mayor and council, to issue to the private organization or group of private persons a permit within a reasonable time of such approval.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-5)
Sec. 24-111. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
The administrator shall forward the application and all supporting documents in regards to routes, times and activities to the chief of police for approval of routes and street closings and event locations. The chief of police has the authority to require changes to the route and activity locations or to disapprove routes and activity locations based on matters of public safety and traffic control. The application will then be returned to the administrator.
(b)
Upon the receipt of the recommendation of the reviewing officer as hereinabove provided the administrator shall forward the recommendation and application to the mayor and council for consideration and action.
(c)
Unless some significant interference with the rights of non-participating citizens exists, or the orderly flow of traffic would be obstructed unreasonably, or the public safety be endangered, or there be other unreasonable interference with the public welfare, peace, safety, health, good order, and convenience of the general public, the permit shall be granted.
(d)
Upon the express approval of the mayor and council, the administrator shall issue a permit to the applicant therefor, which permit shall state the nature of the activity authorized and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the administrator.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-6)
Sec. 24-112. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be a violation of this article for any private organization or group of private persons, whether residents of this city or elsewhere, to engage in any activity within the city limits for which this article requires a permit, without first obtaining a permit to do so, under the provisions of this article.
(b)
Any individual or any other person, whether the same be a corporation, partnership, or any other form of association, who engages in any activity for which this article requires a permit, without a permit having first been obtained under the provisions of this article, shall be guilty of a violation of this article.
(c)
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction in the municipal court of the city, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-7)
Sec. 24-113. - Defense to prosecution.
It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this article for failing to obtain a permit before engaging in any activity described in this article that a permit has in fact been issued in the manner provided by law. It shall be presumed that no permit has been issued unless at his trial, the accused produces in court a valid permit or a certified copy thereof.
(Code 2010, § 7-5-8)
