Chapter 20 - LIBRARY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal libraries, O.C.G.A. § 20-5-20 et seq.

Sec. 20-1. - Establishment of a public library department for the town.
There is created a public library department for the town. This department shall fall under the operational and administrative control of the town manager.
(Code 1984, § 2-7-26)
Sec. 20-2. - Responsibilities of library director.
The supervision and operation of the Tyrone Public Library shall be vested in the library director under the general guidance and oversight of the town manager.
(Code 1984, § 2-7-27)
Sec. 20-3. - Composition of staff.
The staffing of the Tyrone Public Library shall consist of a library director and other such employees or consultants. Staffing level recommendations are to be made by the library director, through the town manager, and changes made as the mayor and town council may approve.
(Code 1984, § 2-7-28)
Sec. 20-4. - Accountability.
The library director shall be responsible to the town manager.
(Code 1984, § 2-7-29)
Sec. 20-5. - Library board.
(a)
Established. A library board is established for the purpose of:
(1)
Making inputs and recommendations that are seen to improve the operation of the library and services provided;
(2)
Soliciting and/or receiving gifts, personal property and or donations for the benefit of the town library; and
(3)
Listening to the citizens and promoting and supporting the library services that are, or are desired to be, available.
(b)
Composition. The library commission shall consist of three members selected from citizens of the town serving without compensation. The terms of office shall be for three years, except for the initial appointments. The initial commission appointments shall be made by the mayor and council for one-, two-, and three-year terms. Each member shall serve for his designated term or until his successor is appointed, whichever shall occur last. All vacancies in membership shall be filled by the mayor and town council.
(c)
Terms. Each appointed member shall serve for his designated term until reappointed or a successor is appointed. Appointments required to fill vacancies on the library board will be made by the mayor with the approval of council.
(d)
Duties and recommendations. The library board shall review all matters outside of routine daily operations of the library. Recommendations from the library board shall be coordinated with the town manager for presentation and consideration by the mayor and council.
(e)
Receipts of gifts, etc. The library board is authorized to solicit or receive gifts, personal property or any donation for the benefit of the town library. Such funds received for the benefit of the town library will be maintained in a separate town account so designated as a library board account.
(f)
Annual report to mayor and council. Annually, for presentation at the first council meeting of each calendar year, the library board will prepare and present a report to the mayor and council outlining activities, receipt of gifts, etc. The library board may be asked to prepare additional reports as necessary and/or requested.
(Code 1984, §§ 2-7-30—2-7-34; Ord. No. 2009-002, § 1, 2-5-2009)
Sec. 20-6. - Library use policy.
(a)
The library is available to any individual whose conduct or activities do not intrude on the customary usage of the library by other patrons or the staff. The library is free and open to the public for use to obtain information and resources to advance a person's, family's, or group's educational, informational, and recreational needs.
(b)
The Story Time room is to be used for library sponsored activities only. All library sponsored activities are free of charge and open to the public. Individuals, families, businesses, companies, nonprofit organizations, and/or religious affiliated organizations are not allowed to fund-raise on library property.
(c)
Children under the age of 12 are not permitted to be left alone without adult supervision. The library does not accept responsibility for any child left unattended regardless of age.
(Ord. No. 2009-09, 12-3-2009)
