ARTICLE III. - ELECTRIC UTILITY FEE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Public utility franchise fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7).

Sec. 22-165. - Gross receipts business tax established; verified statement of revenues to be filed.
Each electric supplier (including specifically electric membership corporations whether or not operated for profit), within the meaning of the Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.), distributing and selling power within the town which is not otherwise paying a franchise fee pursuant to a franchise agreement, and whether or not said electric supplier has, operates and maintains offices within the town shall pay a gross receipts tax at the rate of four percent on any and all gross revenue derived from distribution and sale of electric power to his customers, members, or purchasers within the town, according to the verified statement of said gross revenues which shall be submitted by said electric supplier at the time said taxes are paid.
(Code 1984, § 2-5-80)
Sec. 22-166. - Taxes payable monthly; taxes to be in lieu of certain other taxes.
The taxes hereinbefore set out in this article, shall be due and payable to the town on the 20th day of each month, calculated on gross revenues billed for the immediately preceding month; also, the percentage of said gross revenues herein before prescribed to be collected shall be in lieu of all other license and business or occupation taxes, but shall not at any time be considered to interfere with, or in any way prevent, the collection of ad valorem taxes upon the property of said electric supplier in the same manner as all other property, real and personal, in the town is taxed.
(Code 1984, § 2-5-81)
Sec. 22-167. - Electric service within the town.
Electric suppliers distributing and selling electric power within the town, and which do not have a franchise agreement with the town, do not acquire any additional rights by the payment of the tax herein levied under this article other than those rights granted under the Georgia Territorial Electric Service Act (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(Code 1984, § 2-5-82)
Sec. 22-168. - Enforcement and administration.
(a)
The finance manager shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article, and shall have the power to prepare and provide the necessary forms and for the collection of the tax herein levied.
(b)
The finance manager shall issue executions for the collection of all outstanding and unpaid taxes and assessed by this article. The unpaid taxes and executions shall be collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of other taxes due the town.
(Code 1984, § 2-5-83)
Secs. 22-169—22-189. - Reserved.
