Chapter 6 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Animals generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned animal means any domesticated animal that has been placed upon public property or within a public building or upon or within the private property of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian or tenant of the private property and is unattended or uncared for. Any domesticated animal shall also be considered abandoned, when it has been unattended and without proper food and water for a period in excess of 36 hours, regardless of where said animal may be found or kept.
Animal at large means any animal not under restraint and off the property of its owner.
Animal under restraint means any animal secured by a leash or lead; or enclosed by way of fence or other enclosure; or under the control of a responsible and competent person and obedient to that person's commands, and the person being present with the animal; or the animal confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion.
Companion animal means a domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. Pets include, but are not limited to, birds, cats, dogs, hamsters, horses, mice, reptiles, domesticated wild animals, exotic animals, and other animals associated with man's environment.
Domesticated animals means animals that are accustomed to live in or about the habitation of men, including but not limited to cats, cows, dogs, fowl, horses, swine, domesticated wild animals and/or exotic animals. This definition only applies to those animals mentioned herein and is only applicable to this chapter and in no way affects the meaning or application of a definition of the described animal as may be found in any other town ordinance.
Guard dog means any dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon oral command and any dog which, while not so trained, is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon and within which he is located.
Owner means any person having the right of property of, keeping, harboring, or acting as custodian of a domesticated animal.
Public nuisance means any animal which:
(1)
Is found at large or abandoned;
(2)
Is a vicious animal/fowl as hereinafter defined;
(3)
Produces, because of quantity, manner or method in which the animals are domesticated or maintained unsanitary conditions in the town;
(4)
Attacks passersby or passing vehicles;
(5)
Is inimical to the public health, welfare, or safety according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the county health department, whose rules and regulations are incorporated herein and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and any person that knowingly keeps, owns, harbors, or acts as custodian of an animal constituting said nuisance shall be guilty of an unlawful act and shall be punishable as hereinafter provided.
Tethering means using a rope, strap, chain or cord to fasten, tie or restrain an animal to a fixed or stationary single point in order to keep the animal within a certain area for a continuous time period.
Vicious animal/fowl means any animal/fowl which attacks, bites or injures humans, other animals or fowl without provocation; or which, because of temperament, conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure other living creatures without provocation; or an animal/fowl which has on one or more occasions caused injury to other living creatures without provocation; or any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or domesticated animals by one or more attacks without provocation of such severity as to cause physical injury. An animal/fowl is not considered vicious if it attacks, bites or menaces:
(1)
Anyone attacking the owner;
(2)
Unlawful trespassers on the property of the owner;
(3)
Any person or animal that has tormented or abused it;
(4)
In defense of its young or another animal; or
(5)
Another animal/fowl while accompanying a person who is hunting and while acting in conformity with generally accepted and otherwise lawful hunting practices.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-1; Ord. No. 51, 11-20-1980; Ord. No. 154, 11-17-1988; Ord. No. 2023-04 , § 1, 3-16-2023)
Sec. 6-2. - Hunting on town property prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, molest or kill any wild animal upon any real property owned or leased by the town, except with permission of the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 2018-02, § 1, 2-15-2018)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2018-02, § 1, adopted February 15, 2018 repealed the former § 6-2, and enacted a new § 6-2 as set out herein. The former § 6-2 pertained to bird sanctuary; wildlife and derived from Code 1984, § 9-3-2.
Sec. 6-3. - Running at large prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of any domestic animal to allow that animal to run at large within the town.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-3)
Sec. 6-4. - Keeping of fowl or livestock in town.
(a)
For the purposes of this section, the term "livestock" is defined in the same way that said term is defined in the town's zoning ordinance.
(b)
The keeping of livestock shall be permitted in the town only on property zoned to the town's A-R agricultural residential zoning district. Furthermore, any such keeping of livestock must satisfy any conditions of zoning for said use provided by the town's zoning ordinance. The keeping of livestock in any manner not consistent with this subsection shall be declared a nuisance.
(c)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the keeping of livestock shall be specifically declared a nuisance if the following conditions are not satisfied:
(1)
Any housing or enclosures used by such livestock shall be well-drained, free from accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors, and otherwise clean and sanitary.
(2)
Animal excrement shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the county health official.
(d)
No person shall create, maintain, support, aid, or continue a nuisance by failing to satisfy the requirements of subsections (b) and (c) above.
(Ord. No. 2013-04, § 1, 3-7-2013)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-04, § 1, adopted Mar. 7, 2013, repealed former § 6-4, and enacted a new section as set out herein. The former section pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1984, § 9-3-4; Ord. No. 62, 2-18-1982.
Sec. 6-5. - Cruelty to animals.
No person shall, by act, omission or neglect, cause unjustifiable pain, suffering or death to any animal. This section shall not apply to the killing of animals raised for the purpose of providing food nor does it apply to any person who shall hunt wild animals in compliance with the game and fish laws of the state. Furthermore, this section shall not apply to the killing or injuring of animals for humane purposes or in the furtherance of medical or scientific research.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-5; Ord. No. 51, 11-20-1980)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 6-6. - Abandonment of animals.
It shall be unlawful for anyone to knowingly abandon any domesticated animal within the town. Each person who does abandon, knowingly or willingly permits such abandonment, or aids in the abandonment of any domesticated animal shall be in violation of the law and shall be punished as provided in section 1-7.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-6)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-15.1.
Sec. 6-7. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant, or custodian of property upon or within which a guard dog is located to conspicuously and prominently post a notice on the outside of the property:
WARNING
GUARD DOG
of either red or black letters upon a white background, which can be easily read at a distance of 25 feet. In the case of a building, such notice shall be conspicuously posted upon such enclosure at a distance not greater than 50 feet apart as well as upon each and every entrance and exit through the enclosure. In the case of apartments, condominiums or businesses located within a larger building where the guard dog is located within the apartment, condominium or building solely, this notice shall be conspicuously posted on or about each and every entrance and exit.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-7; Ord. No. 51, 11-20-1980)
Sec. 6-8. - Beware of dog notice.
Whenever the animal control officer receives a report of a dog with a disposition or propensity to attack or bite any person or animal without provocation, any county animal control officer, town police officer or town code enforcement officer may require a conspicuous sign to be posted and continuously displayed, with letters of no less than two inches in height, to be placed by the owner stating the following: "BEWARE OF DOG."
(Code 1984, § 9-3-13; Ord. No. 338, 4-3-1997)
State Law reference— Dangerous dogs, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-21 et seq.
Sec. 6-9. - Restraint of animals; while on property.
modified
(a)
It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal to ensure that it is confined by way of a fence or other enclosure or is restrained by chain or leash or, in some other physical manner, under the control of a competent person so that it cannot wander off of the real property limits of the owner. It is the intent of this section that all animals be prevented from leaving, while unattended, the real property limits of their owners.
(b)
Tethering.
(1)
No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain an animal, or cause such restraining of an animal to a single point, tree, fence, post, doghouse, or other stationary object except as set forth in subparagraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) below.
(2)
Cable trolley system. No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain an animal, or cause such restraining of an animal, except by a cable trolley system that meets the following requirements:
a.
The system must allow movement of the animal;
b.
The cable along which the trolley tethering device can move must have swivels installed at each end and be attached to stationary objects that cannot be moved by the animal;
c.
The length of the cable along which the trolley tethering device can move must be at least ten feet long;
d.
The cable along which the trolley tethering device can move must be a minimum of four feet high and a maximum of seven feet high;
e.
Tethers and cables attaching the animal to the running cable line trolley tethering device must be made of a substance which cannot be chewed by the animal, must not weigh more than five percent of the body weight of the animal tethered and must have swivels at both ends;
f.
The tethering line attached to the animal's collar or harness must be of such length that the animal is able to move ten feet away from the cable perpendicularly but:
1.
Must maintain a sufficient distance from any other object to prohibit the tangling of the cable;
2.
Must maintain a sufficient distance from any object or edge that could result in injury or strangulation of the animal; and
3.
Must maintain a sufficient distance from any fence as to prohibit the animal access to the fence and to ensure the animal cannot move beyond the property limits of the owner;
g.
The tethering line attached to the animal's collar or harness must be of such length to allow access to food, water and shelter;
h.
The tethering line must not be directly wrapped around the animal's neck, but must instead be attached with a swiveling clasp to a properly fitted harness or collar which allows at least two fingers between the collar and the animal's throat; choke collars and pinch collars are prohibited for the purposes of tethering and attaching an animal to a running cable or trolley system;
i.
The area must be sufficient in size so as to allow the animal the ability to defecate or urinate in an area separate from the area where it must eat, drink or lie down;
j.
Only one animal may be attached to the cable trolley system at a time;
k.
Unsterilized females may not be attached to a cable trolley system unless immediately supervised by a responsible and competent person; and
l.
No animal may be attached to such a cable trolley system for more than four hours nor from 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m., and the owner/keeper must be present on the property or premises where the cable trolley system is located when the animal is attached thereto.
(3)
Exemptions. The following animals are exempt from the requirements contained herein:
a.
Animals that are in immediate attention of a responsible and competent person while still on their property and cannot come within ten feet of any street, multi-use path or sidewalk; and
b.
Animals that are under the physical control of a professional who, for compensation, trains, conditions, shows, grooms or provides medical attention.
(c)
In addition, all male and female dogs and cats that have not been spayed or neutered must be securely confined in such a way that they cannot be reached by other dogs or cats.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-7.1; Ord. No. 233, § 1, 8-5-1992; Ord. No. 2023-04 , § 2, 3-16-2023)
Sec. 6-10. - Same; while off of property.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal to keep the animal under control at all times while the animal is off of the real property limits of the owner. For the purposes of this section, an animal is deemed under control when it is confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion, is secured by a leash or other device held by a competent person, is under voice command of a competent person being present with the animal, or is properly confined within an enclosure with permission of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located.
(b)
Any animal kept in the back of an open pickup truck or anywhere in a convertible car with the top down must be restrained by a leash. Such leash must be of the size and length to restrict the animal within the confines of the car or bed of the truck so as to prohibit the animal from jumping out or over the sides, front or back of such vehicle.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-7.2; Ord. No. 233, § 2, 8-5-1992)
Sec. 6-11. - Evidence of rabies vaccinations for dogs and cats required.
(a)
It shall be the duty of each owner, custodian or harborer of any dog or cat at least three months of age kept, maintained or harbored within the town, to possess evidence of a current rabies vaccination for such animal.
(b)
It shall be duty of all persons owning or having custody of any dog or cat at least three months of age brought into any areas of the town to obtain evidence of a rabies vaccination for such dog or cat within 14 days from the date of entry into the town.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-12; Ord. No. 338, 4-3-1997)
Secs. 6-12—6-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 6-41. - Enforcement.
(a)
The town police department and the county animal control department, its director and employees as established by the county board of commissioners shall have the authority to enforce this chapter.
(b)
If a violation of this chapter has not been personally witnessed by the police department or the county director or his authorized representative or an employee of the town, a subpoena shall be issued to the person making the complaint, to be and appear on the day and time set for trial, then and there to testify on behalf of the town. The police department or said director shall refuse to respond to anonymous complaints.
(c)
In the event the owner of any dog or animal is not known and the dog or animal is upon the public streets, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds, or other public places or premises or the property of another without that property owner's permission, as prohibited by this chapter, upon complaint made to or information made known to the animal shelter, the police department, the director, or his authorized representative shall be authorized to immediately take possession of such dog or animal and impound it in the animal shelter. Once impounded, an animal shall be kept for a period of time as defined in section 6-42; thereafter, if the animal is not claimed by anyone after a reasonable effort has been made to locate the owner of the animal as hereinafter provided, the animal may be disposed of in a humane fashion or in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.6 and other applicable state laws and rules. Where the police department or the director or his authorized representative is required in this section to take possession of any dog or animal and to impound it, he may use any and all means available.
(d)
In all cases of violations of this chapter, the police officers or the director may, in addition to or in lieu of impounding any animal, issue a citation to the owner of said animal. However, in all such instances where the owner of said animal is known or discovered, the police officer or the director shall at least issue a citation to said owners. The citation shall state the violation, the name and address of the owner, and the name of the individual issuing the citation. All citations shall be transferred to the state court of the county, which shall be designated as the municipal court of the town for violations of this chapter.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-8; Ord. No. 51, 11-20-1980; Ord. No. 2009-005, § 1, 4-16-2009)
Sec. 6-42. - A notice to owners of impounded animals.
(a)
Upon impounding any dog or other animal, the director or his authorized representative shall cause to be made a prompt and reasonable effort to locate the animal's owner and, upon location of same, shall send to said owner, by certified letter, notification of impoundment. If said animal is not claimed by the owner, within three days of the receipt of the certified letter giving notice of impoundment or if the letter is returned by the post office or if within five days of impoundment the owner cannot be located, then it shall be the duty of the director or his authorized representative to dispose of the dog or other animal in a humane fashion.
(b)
For the first time an owner is found in violation of this Code, regardless of whether or not the animal is picked up and impounded, a fine of $100.00 shall be imposed against the owner of such animal. Upon conviction of or plea of nolo contendere to the second offense by the owner for the same animal, it is mandatory that the animal be spayed or neutered at the owner's expense within one week after the owner claims the animal, whether it is a purebred or mixed breed. A sworn, notarized statement from a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state, must be received by the enforcement officer within ten working days following the animal's release from impoundment. Such statement must state that the animal has been spayed, neutered or euthanized by the veterinarian, in compliance with this chapter or must explain in detail that, for health reasons, the animal cannot be spayed or neutered. The owner of such animal will be considered in violation of this chapter for failure to submit a veterinarian's statement, and shall be guilty of an offense.
(c)
A $250.00 fine will be imposed for the second offense. Should the animal again be impounded or the owner cited for a third offense, or for any subsequent offense of violating this chapter, a $500.00 fine will be imposed against the owner.
(d)
In addition to the above provisions, any animal picked up and impounded by the animal shelter will receive a rabies shot, the cost of which will be borne by the owner.
(e)
If for any reason an animal is impounded and not claimed after notification, the owner will be considered in violation of this chapter for the offense of abandoning the animal, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment and jail for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(f)
In addition, if an animal is impounded and not claimed, the owner shall be conclusively presumed to have given his consent to the adoption or permanent disposal of the animal in a humane fashion in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 4-11-9.6 and other applicable state laws and rules.
(g)
If any animal is not claimed as provided within this chapter, the enforcement officer or his authorized representative, in his sole discretion, and after he has satisfied himself that such animal is in good health, may offer the animal for adoption. All animals offered for adoption must be spayed or neutered and must be given a rabies shot. A sworn, notarized statement from a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state, must be received within ten working days following the adoption. Such statement must state that the animal has been spayed or neutered by the veterinarian, or must explain in detail that, for health reasons, the animal can not be spayed or neutered. The owner of such animal will be considered in violation of this chapter for failure to submit a veterinarian's statement, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of up to $500.00 and/or imprisonment and jail for a period not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(h)
In no event shall any animal be redeemed by its lawful possessor, owner or custodian unless those fees established for boarding the animal are paid.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-9; Ord. No. 51, 11-20-1980; Ord. No. 233, § 3, 8-5-1992)
Sec. 6-43. - Fee schedule and miscellaneous regulations.
Fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be adopted from time to time by the county board of commissioners and kept on file with the director and the town.
(Code 1984, § 9-3-10)
