DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 28-58. - Purpose and policy.
The purpose of this article is to set uniform requirements for users of the Authority's wastewater collection system and treatment works to enable the Authority to comply with the provisions of the Clean Water Act and other applicable Federal and State law and regulations, and to provide for the public health and welfare by regulating the quality of wastewater discharged into the Authority's wastewater collection system and treatment works. This article establishes conditions for connection to the sanitary sewer system and requires a permit. Certain acts which may be detrimental to the sewer system are prohibited. This article provides a means for determining wastewater volumes, constituents, and characteristics; the setting of charges and fees; and the issuance of permits to certain users. This article establishes effluent limitations and other discharge criteria and provides that certain users shall pretreat waste to prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) which may interfere with the operation of the POTW, cause environmental damage, or interfere with the use or disposal of sewage sludge. Pretreatment may also be required to prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will pass through the treatment works into the receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the treatment works and to improve the opportunities to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and the sludges resulting from wastewater treatment. This article provides measures for the enforcement of its provisions and abatement of violations thereof.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 1-1)
Sec. 28-59. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved publicly owned treatment works (POTW) pretreatment program orprogram orPOTW pretreatment program means a program administered by a publicly owned treatment works that meets the criteria established in 40 CFR 403.8 and 403.9, and which has been approved by a Regional Administrator or State Director in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
Authority means the Walker County Water and Sewerage Authority, including superintendents, operators, foremen, technicians, or other agents of authority designated by the Authority Manager to act on behalf of the Authority.
Authority Manager means the general Manager of the Walker County Water and Sewerage Authority.
BMPs means schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in section 28-179. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs also include alternative means (i.e., management plans) of complying with, or in place of, certain established categorical pretreatment standards and effluent limits.
Board means Board of Directors of the Walker County Water and Sewerage Authority.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5 feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building sewer means a sewer conveying wastewater from the building drain to a community sanitary sewer or other place of disposal.
Bypass means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an industrial user's treatment facility.
Categorical Standards means National Pretreatment Standards established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for specific industrial user Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code categories.
Centralized Waste Treatment Facility (CWT) means a commercial centralized waste treatment facility (other than a landfill or an incinerator) which treats or stores aqueous wastes generated by facilities not located on the CWT site and which disposes of these wastes by introducing them to the POTW.
Chattanooga Sewer Service Area means that portion of Walker County with sanitary sewers that is served by the Moccasin Bend Wastewater Treatment Plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
Chickamauga Sewer Service Area means that portion of Walker County with sanitary sewers that are served by the Chickamauga Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Clean Water Act (CWA), Act, orthe Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
Combined sewer means a sewer which has been designed to carry both sanitary sewage and stormwater runoff.
Community sewer means a sanitary sewer to which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and which is owned by the Authority.
Conventional pollutant means biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), pH, fecal coliform bacteria, and oil and grease.
County means Walker County, Georgia.
Daily maximum limit means the maximum allowable discharge of a pollutant during a calendar day. Where expressed in terms of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the day. Where expressed in terms of concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average concentration of the pollutant derived from all measurements taken that day.
Direct discharge means the discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to the waters of the State of Georgia.
Discharge monitoring report means a report submitted by an industrial user to the Authority pursuant to this article containing information relating to the nature and concentration of pollutants and flow characteristics of a discharge from the industrial user to the POTW using standard methods approved by the Authority.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) means an agency of the United States or the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
Grab sample means a sample taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of time.
Holding tank waste means any waste from holding tanks, such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks. The term "holding tank waste" specifically includes wastewater from industrial users conveyed to the POTW by any means other than by a standard connection to a sanitary or combined sewer.
Indirect discharge means the discharge or the introduction of pollutants from any source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b), (c), or (d)) into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the system) for treatment before direct discharge to State waters.
Industrial user means a source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act. For the purposes of this article, the term "industrial user" means a source of nondomestic wastes from industrial processes.
Infiltration means water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service connections) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. The term "infiltration" does not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
Inflow means water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including sewer service connections) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, fountain drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff, street wash waters, and drainage. The term "inflow" does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
Instantaneous limit means the maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined by analysis of any discrete or composited sample, independent of the flow rate or duration of the sampling event.
Interference means a discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, both:
(1)
Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
(2)
Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): section 405 of the CWA; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and including State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
Lafayette Sewer Service Area means that portion of Walker County with sanitary sewers that is served by the Lafayette Wastewater Treatment Plant.
Mass emission rate means the weight of material discharged to the community sewer system during a given time interval. Unless otherwise specified, the term "the mass emission rate" means pounds per day of the particular constituent or combination of constituents.
Maximum concentration means the maximum amount of a specified pollutant in a volume of water or wastewater.
Medical waste means isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents, contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis wastes.
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit means a permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 USC 1342).
National Pretreatment Standard means any regulations containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 13417(b), (c)) which apply to industrial users. The term "National Pretreatment Standard" also includes prohibited discharges promulgated in 40 CFR 403.5 and local limits adopted as part of the Authority's approved pretreatment program.
New source means:
(1)
Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the. Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that 1 of the following criteria is applicable:
a.
The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site at which no other source is located.
b.
The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing source.
c.
The production or wastewater-generating processes of the building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should be considered.
(2)
Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of subsection (1)b or c of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production equipment.
(3)
Construction of a new source, as defined under this section, has commenced if the owner or operator has taken 1 of the following actions:
a.
Begun or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site construction program:
1.
Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment.
2.
Significant site preparation work, including clearing, excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment.
b.
Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this subsection.
Normal wastewater means effluent which contains constituents and characteristics similar to effluent from a domestic premise, and specifically for the purposes of this article, does not contain BOD 5 , chemical oxygen demand (COD), or total suspended solids (TSS) in concentrations in excess of those concentrations specified in this chapter.
Pass-through means a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in the quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation). In the case of a POTW receiving discharges from CWTs as defined above, the term "pass-through" also means the failure of the CWT and the POTW to reduce pollutant discharges from the POTW to the degree required under section 301(b)(2) of the CWA if the CWT discharged directly to surface waters.
Person means any individual; partnership; co-partnership; firm; company; corporation; association; joint stock company; trust; estate; governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
Pollutant means any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, industrial wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, odor).
Pollution means the manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
Premises means a parcel of real estate or portion thereof, including any improvements thereon which is determined by the Authority to be a single user for purposes of receiving, using, and paying for services.
Pretreatment means the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR 403.6(d). Appropriate pretreatment technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings that might interfere with or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW. However, where wastewater from a regulated process is mixed in an equalization facility with unregulated wastewater or with wastewater from another regulated process, the effluent from the equalization facility must meet an adjusted pretreatment limit calculated in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
Pretreatment requirements means any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an industrial user.
Pretreatment standards means prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, or local limits.
Publicly owned treatment works (POTW) means a treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292). The term "publicly owned treatment works" includes any sewers that convey wastewater to such a treatment works and any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or liquid industrial waste, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment.
Reclaimed water means water which, as a result of the treatment of waste, is suitable for direct beneficial or controlled use that would not occur otherwise.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries wastewater and from which stormwaters, surface waters, and groundwaters are intentionally excluded.
Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property, damage to treatment facilities rendering them inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. The term "severe property damage" does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
Significant industrial user means:
(1)
All dischargers subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N.
(2)
All non-categorical dischargers that contribute a process wastestream which makes up 5 percent or more of the average dry weather capacity of the POTW treatment plant, or more than an average of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd) of process wastewater to the POTW.
(3)
All non-categorical dischargers that, in the opinion of the Authority, have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW's operation or violate any pretreatment standard or requirement. This shall include, but shall not be limited to, all centralized waste treatment discharges, all tank and drum cleaning facilities, and all paint manufacturing facilities.
(4)
All non-categorical discharges that contain more than 100 pounds per day of combined BOD and TSS load above that level found in normal wastewater, or that contain more than 1,000 pounds in a month of combined BOD and TSS load above that level found in normal wastewater.
(5)
Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsections (2) and (3) of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Authority may at any time on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial user.
Significant noncompliance. An industrial user is in significant noncompliance if its violation meets 1 or more of the following criteria:
(1)
Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits defined here as those in which 66 percent or more of all measurements taken during a 6-month period exceed (by any magnitude) the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement (including instantaneous limits) for the same pollutant parameter.
(2)
Technical review criteria (TRC) violations defined here as those in which 33 percent or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement (including instantaneous limits) multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals 1.4 for BOD 5 , TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH).
(3)
Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (instantaneous, daily maximum or longer-term average, or narrative standard) that the Authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of Authority personnel or the general public).
(4)
Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the Authority's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
(5)
Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order for beginning construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance.
(6)
Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules.
(7)
Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
(8)
Any other violation or group of violations, which may include violation of a best management practice (BMP), which the Authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
Slug loading or slug discharge means any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section 28-179. A slug discharge is any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a noncustomary batch discharge which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in any other way violate the POTW's local limits or permit conditions.
Standard industrial classification means a classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
Toxic pollutant means any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in 40 CFR 401 promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA under the provisions of 33 USC 1317.
Treatment works means any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes, including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including land, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or be used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment; and including combined stormwater and sanitary sewer systems.
Twenty-four-hour, flow-proportional composite sample means a sample consisting of several effluent portions collected during a 24-hour period in which the portions of sample are proportionate to the flow and combined to form a representative sample.
Unpolluted water means water to which no constituent has been added, either intentionally or accidentally, which would render such water unacceptable to the State of Georgia or the EPA having jurisdiction thereof for disposal to storm or natural drainage or directly to surface waters.
User means any person, firm, corporation, or governmental entity that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of wastewater into a community sewer.
Walker County Health Department means the agency designated by Walker County as responsible for supervision and administration of private wastewater disposal systems in Walker County.
Waste means sewage and other waste substances (liquid, solid, gaseous, or radioactive) associated with human habitation or of human or animal origin, or from any producing, manufacturing, or processing operation, including such waste placed within containers of whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of, disposal.
Wastewater means waste and water, whether treated or untreated, discharged into or permitted to enter a community sewer.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics means the individual chemical, physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including toxicity, volume, and flow rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify, or measure the contents, quality, quantity, and strength of wastewater.
Waters of the State of Georgia means any water, surface or underground, within the boundaries of the State.
(b)
The following abbreviations shall have the following meanings:
(1)
BAT: Best available technology.
(2)
BPT: Best practical technology.
(3)
BMP: Best management practice.
(4)
BOD 5 : Biochemical oxygen demand (5-day).
(5)
CFR: Code of Federal Regulations.
(6)
COD: Chemical oxygen demand.
(7)
CWA: Clean Water Act.
(8)
CWT: Centralized waste treatment facility.
(9)
EPA: Environmental Protection Agency.
(10)
EPD: Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.
(11)
GMP: Good management practices.
(12)
MBAS: Methylene-blue-active substances.
(13)
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
(14)
NPDES: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
(15)
POTW: Publicly owned treatment works.
(16)
RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
(17)
SIC: Standard industrial classification.
(18)
SWDA: Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
(19)
TSS: Total suspended non-filterable solids.
(20)
USC: United States Code.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 2-1)
Secs. 28-60—28-76. - Reserved.
