DIVISION 2. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 28-77. - Connection with sanitary sewer required.
(a)
Sewer connection required. Every building having plumbing fixtures installed and intended for human habitation, occupancy, or use on premises abutting a street, alley, or easement in which segment there is a sanitary sewer which is adjacent to the property line of the parcel containing the building shall be considered as being served by the Authority's sanitary sewer system. All new buildings hereafter constructed on property which is served by the Authority's sewer system shall not be occupied until the connection has been made. The Authority shall make any decision as to the availability of sewers. Notwithstanding the above exceptions, all premises served by the Authority sanitary sewer are subject to sewer user charges as described in section 28-420. Septic tanks shall not be used for new buildings where sanitary sewers are available.
(b)
Unconnected sewer service lines prohibited where connection is available. Except for discharge to a properly functioning septic tank system approved by the Walker County Health Department or discharges permitted by a National Discharge Elimination System permit (hereinafter NPDES) issued by the EPD, the discharge of sewage into places other than the Authority's sewer system is prohibited. The owner or occupant of each lot or parcel of land which is now served or which may hereafter be served by the Authority's sewer system shall cease to use any other method for the disposal of sewage except as approved for direct discharge by the EPD or by discharge to a properly functioning and approved septic tank.
(c)
Insufficient capacity, connection moratorium. In those parts of the Authority sewer system where no additional capacity exists and a sewer moratorium has been established pursuant to orders of the EPD, no new or additional sewer connections shall be permitted. Tap permits issued prior to the date of the moratorium may be completed. No tap permits shall be issued for new buildings in a moratorium area after the effective date of the moratorium. A moratorium shall continue in effect until the capacity restriction has been corrected.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-1)
Sec. 28-78. - Adequate and minimum fixtures.
(a)
Minimum number of fixtures. All new dwellings shall have at least 1 commode, 1 bathtub or shower, 1 lavatory, 1 kitchen-type sink, and an adequate source of hot water for each family unit to meet minimum basic requirements for health, sanitation, and personal hygiene. All other buildings, structures, or premises intended for human occupancy or use shall be provided with adequate sanitary facilities as may be required by any other law or regulation, but not less than 1 commode and 1 hand-washing lavatory.
(b)
Adequate water for disposal of waste required. It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of premises into which a pipe or other connection with the public sanitary sewers and drains have been laid to permit the same to remain without adequate fixtures attached to allow a sufficient quantity of water to be so applied as properly to carry off all waste matter and keep the same unobstructed.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-2)
Sec. 28-79. - Right to enter, inspect connection.
The County, the building inspector, or designated employees of the authority shall have free and unobstructed access to any part of the premises where house drains or other drains connected with or draining into the Authority's sewers are laid for the purpose of examining the construction, condition, and method of use of the same, upon cause or reasonable suspicion that there may be inadequate plumbing, that the facilities present may not be properly functioning, that there is an improper discharge, or for a periodic systematic inspection of a particular drainage basin or other large segment of the system at any time of the day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or any other time in the event of an emergency. If such entry is refused, the sewer service may be disconnected upon reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing. The service may be suspended immediately in the event of an emergency if there is reasonable cause to suspect that the discharge will endanger the public health or the environment, shall have the potential to interrupt the treatment process, or shall damage the Authority's lines or facilities, and a hearing shall thereafter be afforded the user as soon as possible.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-3)
Sec. 28-80. - Demolished buildings and mobile homes.
When a building is demolished, or in the case of a mobile home, when it is removed from the premises, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to have the sewer service line plugged securely so that extraneous water will not enter the sewer. The owner of the premises or his agent shall notify the building inspector of such a plug and allow same to be inspected prior to covering of any work. If such line is to be reused, it must first undergo inspection by the building inspector and be in conformity with current standards for building sewers.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-4)
Sec. 28-81. - Limitations on point of discharge; temporary facilities.
No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other opening in an authority sanitary sewer other than through an approved building sewer unless he has been issued a temporary permit by the authority. Permission may be granted at the discretion of the authority to provide for discharges from portable sanitary facilities for festivals or public shows or for other reasonable purposes. The authority shall incorporate in such a temporary permit such conditions as it deems reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this division. Any discharge other than through an approved building sewer shall be unlawful.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-5)
Sec. 28-82. - Vehicle wash racks.
All new gasoline filling stations, garages, self-service automobile washers, and other public wash racks where vehicles are washed shall install and maintain (i.e., clean on a regular schedule) catch basins in conformity with the plumbing code in accordance with a permit obtained from the Code Official. In the event any existing premises does not have a catch basin and the sewer line servicing the facility stops up due to grit or slime in the sewer lines, then the owner or operator of such premises shall be required to modify these facilities to construct a catch basin as a condition of continuing use of the system. If such users are industrial users as defined in section 28-255, a permit as specified therein will be required.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-6)
Sec. 28-83. - Grease traps, grit traps, oil traps, and lint traps.
All new restaurants, laundries, wash racks, vehicle service stations, private multi-user systems, engine or machinery repair shops, and other facilities that produce grease, grit, oil, lint, or other materials which accumulate and cause or threaten to cause stoppages or impair the efficiency of the authority's sewers or threaten the safety of its employees, shall install and maintain (i.e., clean on a regular schedule) a grease trap, grit trap, lint trap, oil interceptor, or other appropriate device of standard design and construction to prevent excess discharges of such materials. The design and construction of any such device shall be subject to prior approval of the authority and constructed in accordance with applicable building codes.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-7)
Sec. 28-84. - Multi-user private sewer systems.
Excluding those industrial waste facilities with a permit issued pursuant to division 2 of article VI of this chapter, the owner or operator of a private sewer system such as, but not limited to, multi-tenant buildings, building complexes, and shopping centers shall be responsible for the quality of wastewater discharged at the point of connection to the authority's sanitary sewer system and shall be responsible for any violations of the provisions of this chapter, including liability for the damage or injury caused to the authority's system as a result of any discharge through the private system.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-8)
Sec. 28-85. - Standard policies on public water and sewer extensions.
The authority may adopt from time to time standard policies on public water and sewer extensions which are to become part of the authority's water or sewer systems following completion of construction. These policies may include, but are not limited to, requirements for planning, permitting, approval, and acceptance; design and construction standards; standard specifications; and standard details. Copies of the policies will be made available to engineers, developers, contractors, plumbers, and other parties desiring to extend or connect to the authority's water or sewer systems.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008, § 3-9)
Secs. 28-86—28-113. - Reserved.
