APPENDIX D - OKEFENOKE RURAL ELECTRIC MEMBERSHIP CORPORATION FRANCHISE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Okefenoke Rural Electric Membership Corporation franchise, as adopted by the mayor and council on October 13, 1986. Amendments to the franchise are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original franchise agreement. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.

Sec. I. - Grant of franchise.
Be it ordained by the governing authority of the City of St. Marys, Georgia (hereafter referred to as the "city"), that the authority, right, permission and consent are hereby granted to Okefenoke REMC, its successors, lessees and assigns (hereafter referred to as "Okefenoke"), for a period of 35 years, to occupy and use the streets, alleys and public places of the city within the present and future limits of the said city as from time to time Okefenoke may deem proper or necessary for the overhead or underground construction, maintenance, operation and extension of poles, towers, lines, wires, cables, conduits, insulators, transformers, appliances, equipment, connections and other apparatus for the business and purpose of transmitting, conveying, conducting, using, supplying and distributing electricity for light, heat, power and other purposes for which electric current may be or become useful or practicable for public or private use, and to re-enter upon such streets, alleys and public places from time to time as it may deem proper or necessary to perform these functions, and to cut and trim trees and shrubbery when and where necessary, in the judgment of Okefenoke to ensure safe and efficient service.
Sec. II. - Conditions imposed.
Be it further ordained that the rights, permission and consents herein contained are made for the following considerations and upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
1.
Okefenoke shall pay into the treasury of the city (a) on or before the first day of March, 1987, a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the city during the period September 1—December 31, 1986, and (b) on or before the first day of March of each year thereafter during the term of this franchise a sum of money equal to four percent of the gross sales of electric energy to customers served under residential, commercial and industrial rate schedules within the corporate limits of the city during the preceding calendar year, on condition that, in the event the city shall grant to any other entity the right to use and occupy its streets for like purposes, such use and occupancy shall be upon the same terms and conditions as those herein contained, including the payment provisions hereof.
2.
The amount, if any, of any tax, fee, charge or imposition of any kind required, demanded or exacted by the city on any account, other than ad valorem taxes on property and license taxes on the sale of home appliances, shall operate to reduce to that extent the amount due from the percentage of gross sales above provided for.
3.
Okefenoke shall fully protect, indemnify and save harmless the city from all damages to person or property caused by the construction, maintenance, operation or extension of poles, wires or other apparatus, or conditions of streets, alleys or public places resulting therefrom, for which the said city would otherwise be liable.
4.
Okefenoke shall, in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending its poles, wires and other apparatus, submit and be subject to all reasonable exercises of the police power by the city. Nothing contained herein, however, shall require Okefenoke to surrender or limit its property rights created hereby without due process of law, including adequate compensation, for any other purpose at the instance of the city or for any purpose at the instance of any other entity, private or governmental.
Sec. III. - Acceptance.
Be it further ordained that Okefenoke shall, within 90 days from the approval of this ordinance, file its written acceptance of the same with the clerk of said city, so as to form a contract between the parties.
