ARTICLE IV. - GENERAL CONTRACTORS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors, and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-111. - Title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as "The City of St. Marys General Contractors' License Ordinance."
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 1.1)
Sec. 22-112. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alteration of building means any change in the supporting members of a building (such as bearing wall, columns, or girdes); any addition or reduction to a building; or any relocation of a building from one location or position to another.
Board of appeals means the city zoning board of appeals, as created under the zoning ordinance of the city, as amended.
Building means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
Building code means the Georgia State Plumbing Code, Georgia State Electrical Code, Georgia State Heating & Air Conditioning Code, Georgia State Building Code, and Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings, as enacted by the mayor and council, as subsequently amended.
Building official means the city building and zoning official.
Certificate of competency means a valid current certificate issued by the building official which shall give the named general contractor to which it is issued authority to engage in general contracting of the kind described therein.
General contracting means construction, alteration or repairing of any building in the city.
General contractor means any person, corporation or other legal entity which engages in the business of general contracting under express or implied contracts or which bids, offers to perform, purports to have the capacity to perform, or does perform general contracting services under express or implied contracts. The term "general contractor" shall not include a person who is an employee of a general contractor and who receives only a salary or hourly wage for performing general contracting work.
License means a valid and current certificate of registration issued by the building official which shall give the named person to whom it is issued authority to engage in the activity prescribed thereon.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 2.1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-113. - Powers of building official.
In addition to any authority hereinafter provided by this article, the building official has the power to:
(1)
Charge reasonable fees as established by the mayor and council for the administration of applications, examinations, registration, licensure and renewal licenses in respect to general contractors.
(2)
Establish the policies for regulating the business of general contracting.
(3)
Promulgate and adopt rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this article.
(4)
Examine all applicants for license to practice the business of general contracting. Examinations shall be prepared in such a manner as to test the knowledge, skill and efficiency of the applicants; and such examination shall be based on the applicable building codes.
(5)
Investigate alleged violations of this article or the building code.
(6)
After notice and hearing, have the power to reprimand or power to suspend, revoke or cancel the license or certificate of competency or refuse to grant, renew, or restore a license or certificate of competency to any person or licensee upon any one of the following grounds:
a.
The commission of any false, fraudulent or deceitful act or use of any forged, false or fraudulent document in connection with the license requirements of this article, the building code or the rules and regulations of the city.
b.
Failure at any time to comply with the requirements for a license under the provisions of this article.
c.
Engaging in any dishonorable or unethical conduct likely to deceive, defraud, or harm the public.
d.
Knowingly performing any act which in any way assists an unlicensed person to engage in the business of general contracting.
e.
Violating, directly or indirectly, or assisting in or abetting any violation of any provisions of this article, the building code or any rule or regulation of the city.
f.
The performance of any faulty, inadequate, inefficient or unsafe general contracting likely to endanger life, health or property. The performance of any work that does not comply with the standards set by the building code shall be prima facie evidence of the faulty, inadequate, inefficient or unsafe character of such general contracting work; provided, however, that the building official, in his sole discretion, for good cause shown and under such conditions as he may prescribe, may restore a license to any person whose license has been suspended or revoked.
(7)
Do all other things necessary and proper to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 3.1)
Sec. 22-114. - Prohibited activities.
No person shall engage in the general contracting business unless such person has a valid license from the city.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 4.1)
Sec. 22-115. - Exemptions from examination.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, any general contractor holding a valid license immediately prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section derives shall continue to be licensed in the same capacity without the necessity of passing an examination, provided such person pays or has paid the required fees and is not otherwise in violation of the provisions of this article.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, within 90 days after the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives, any individual, partnership, or corporation desiring to qualify as a general contractor shall make application to stand the examination herein provided for or, within the same period, shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the board that such individual, partnership or corporation has a partner, officer or regular employee who has successfully and efficiently engaged in the vocation for a period of at least three consecutive years prior to the time of application. Any individual, partnership or corporation so qualifying shall pay or shall have paid to the city the fee prescribed for applicants for examination for qualification. The decision of the building official as to the qualifications of applicants taking the required examination shall, in the absence of fraud, be conclusive. All individuals, partnerships or corporations desiring to engage in general contracting business after the expiration of 90 days after the adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives shall take the examination and qualify under this article before engaging in the business.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 4.2)
Sec. 22-116. - Application.
All applicants for examination and licenses provided for by this article and applicants for renewal of licenses under the provisions of this article shall be required to fill out a form which shall be furnished by the city, which form shall show whether or not the applicant is an individual, partnership or corporation and, if a partnership or corporation, the names and addresses of all partners or the names and addresses of the officers, names and addresses of all persons owning more than ten percent of the stock in the case of corporations, when and where formed or incorporated, and such other information as the building official may require. All forms of applications for renewal of licenses shall also show whether or not the applicant, if it is a partnership or corporation, still has connected with it a duly qualified person holding a license issued by the city.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 4.3)
Sec. 22-117. - Display of license.
Every person holding a license issued by the city pursuant to this article shall display it in a conspicuous manner at his place of business.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 5.1)
Sec. 22-118. - Transfer.
The license and certificate of competency under this article shall not be transferred by one company to another without the written approval of the building official.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 5.2)
Sec. 22-119. - Period of license.
The license issued pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be valid for a period of one year commencing January 1 and expiring on December 31 of a particular calendar year.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 5.3)
Sec. 22-120. - Renewal of license.
All licenses issued pursuant to this article shall be renewed on an annual basis without the necessity of taking another examination, provided the license holder continues to meet the qualifications set out in this article and renews his license within a period of 60 days subsequent to the expiration of previous license held by the applicant.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 5.4)
Sec. 22-121. - Building permit.
No building permit shall be issued to any general contractor or owner of any building unless the contractor to perform the construction is licensed under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 5.5)
Sec. 22-122. - Exempt activities.
This article shall not apply to the following construction activities:
(1)
Contractors doing work on bridges, roads, streets, highways, railroads or utilities and services incidental thereto.
(2)
A subcontractor or specialty contractor whose work is limited to a specific phase of construction and whose responsibility is likewise limited to that particular phase of the construction, provided he is licensed for that particular work.
(3)
Employees of any person engaged in general contracting who are subordinates of a general contractor who is licensed to engage in such contracting provided the employees do not hold themselves out for hire or engage in contracting except as salaried employees.
(4)
An authorized employee of the United States, the state, or any county, municipality, board of education, district or political subdivision of the state as long as the employee does not hold himself out for hire or otherwise engage in general contracting, except in accordance with his employment.
(5)
Public utilities or construction, maintenance, and development work performed by their forces and incidental to their business.
(6)
The sale or installation of any finished products, materials or articles or merchandise which are not actually fabricated into and do not become a permanent fixed part of the structure.
(7)
Owners of property building or improving one- or two-family residences thereon for the occupancy of such owners and not offered for sale or rent. In all actions brought under this article, proof of the sale or offering for sale of more than one such structure by the owner-builder within one year after completion of the same shall be prima facie evidence that such structure was undertaken for the purpose of sale.
(8)
Any construction, alteration, improvement, or repair carried on within the limits of any site, the title to which is in the United States, nor to any construction, alteration, improvement or repair on any project where federal law supersedes or preempts this article.
(9)
Any work or operation of a casual, minor or inconsequential nature in which the aggregate contract price for labor, materials and all other items is less than $1,000.00, but this exemption shall not apply:
a.
When the construction, repair, remodeling or improvement is a part of a larger or major operation whether undertaken by the same or a different contractor or in which a division of the operation is made in contracts of amounts less than $1,000.00 for the purpose of evading this article or otherwise.
b.
To a person who advertises or exhibits by any manner or device which might indicate to the public that he is a contractor or otherwise represents that he is qualified to engage in general contracting.
(10)
Any construction or operation incidental to the construction or repair or irrigation and drainage ditches or regular constituted irrigation districts, reclamation districts, or the clearing or other work on the land in rural areas for fire prevention purposes or otherwise.
(11)
A registered architect, professional engineer, or residential designer acting in his professional capacity or any person otherwise exempted by law.
(12)
Any person who furnishes materials or supplies only without fabricating them into or consuming them in the performance of the work of the contractor.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 6.1)
Sec. 22-123. - Recognition of other registrations, certificates.
Any other provision of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the building official is hereby authorized to issue a license, without the necessity of an examination but upon the payment of the proper application fee, to any applicant who shall submit satisfactory evidence of registration or certification in another state or county of this state having a general contractors licensing act or ordinance, if the qualification prescribed at the time such license or certificate was issued by the other state or county were equal to or greater than the requirements prescribed by the building official at the time the application is made to the building official and provided such state or county affords similar reciprocity to license holders under this article. Such application shall be accompanied by such documentation and information as shall be prescribed by the city. The building official is further authorized to prescribe such rules, regulations, conditions or limitations on the issuance of such licenses as the city in its sole discretion shall deem appropriate or desirable.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 6.2)
Sec. 22-124. - Injunction.
Whenever it shall appear to the building official that any person is or has been violating any provisions of this article or any of the lawful rules, ordinances, regulations or orders of the city, the building official may file for injunction or other appropriate proceeding in the proper superior court of this state against such person for the purpose of enjoining any such violation or seeking other relief. The right of injunction provided for in this section shall be in addition to any other legal remedy which the building official has and shall be in addition to any right of criminal prosecution provided by law.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 7.1)
Sec. 22-125. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished for each offense according to section 1-12 of this Code.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 7.2)
Sec. 22-126. - Appeals.
Appeals to the zoning board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved by a decision of the board based on this article. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the city, by filing with the building official a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. Appeals shall be submitted on application forms obtainable from the building official. All papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken shall forthwith be transmitted to the zoning board of appeals by the building official.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 8.1)
Sec. 22-127. - Action on appeals.
In reviewing an appeal the board of appeals may, in conformity with the provision of this article, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision of the building official.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 8.2)
Sec. 22-128. - Public hearing.
The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals or other matters referred to it, and give written notice to the party appealing and to the building official at least 15 days in advance. At such a hearing, any party may appear in person, or may be represented by an agent or by an attorney.
(Ord. of 11-5-81, § 8.3)
Secs. 22-129—22-150. - Reserved.
