Chapter 18 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Codes of technical regulations, § 2-406.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 10; cable communications, ch. 26; alarm systems, § 42-36 et seq.; environment, ch. 46; fire prevention and protection, ch. 50; floods, ch. 54; health and sanitation, ch. 58; historical preservation, ch. 62; preservation of historic buildings, § 62-36 et seq.; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 70; solid waste, ch. 78; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 82; subdivisions, ch. 86; utilities, ch. 98; vegetation, ch. 102; zoning, ch. 110.
State Law reference— Authority of city or county to provide codes, including building, housing, plumbing and electrical codes, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(12); adoption and continuation of state minimum standard codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; state-wide application of minimum standard codes, codes requiring adoption by municipality or county, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; access to and use of public facilities by physically handicapped persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of Mar. 7, 2011(2), §§ 1, 2, repealed art. I., §§ 18-1, 18-2, and enacted a new art. I as set out herein. The former art. I pertained to similar subject matter and derived from: Ord. of Aug. 11, 1981(3); Ord. of Sept. 3, 1981; Ord. of Aug. 20, 1985; Ord. of Oct. 13, 1986; Ord. of Dec. 22, 1986; and Ord. of May 22, 1995(1), § 1.

Sec. 18-1. - Codes adopted.
(a)
The City of St. Marys hereby adopts by reference and will enforce the following standard codes, as adopted and amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs. The following appendices of these codes hereafter set forth are adopted for enforcement by reference as if the same were fully set forth herein, to-wit:
(1)
International Building Code (IBC) - including Georgia Amendments and Appendix N in its entirety with Flood Elevation Option B and Minimum Wind Speed Option C in their entirety.
(2)
International Residential Building Code - including Georgia Amendments and Appendix R in its entirety with Flood Elevation Option B and Minimum Wind Speed Option C in their entirety.
(3)
International Mechanical Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(4)
International Fuel Gas Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(5)
International Plumbing Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(6)
National Electrical Code NFPA 70—including Georgia Amendments.
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(8)
International Property Maintenance Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(a)
Weeds—All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or uncontrolled plant growth in excess of eight inches in height.
(9)
International Fire Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(10)
Life Safety Code NFPA 101—including Georgia Amendments.
(11)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code—including Georgia Amendments.
(b)
The purpose of this article is to provide for the administration and enforcement of the Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes as heretofore adopted. Hereinafter all of the codes heretofore adopted shall be referred to as the "technical codes".
(c)
These codes are hereby declared to be remedial, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems.
(d)
Federal and state authority. The provisions of these codes shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, or any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of these codes or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
(e)
Appendices. Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
(f)
Referenced standards. Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
(g)
Maintenance. All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. All devices or safeguards which are required by the technical codes when constructed, altered, or repaired, shall be maintained in good working order. The owner, or his designated agent, shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
(h)
All codes listed above shall be enforced jointly and/or separately by the building department and/or the fire department, and/or the code enforcement officer in accordance with state and local law.
(Ord. of 3-7-11(2), § 2; Ord. No. 2014-012 , 4-7-14; Ord. No. 2015-020 , 6-1-15)
Sec. 18-2. - Building department.
There is hereby established a department to be called the building department and the person in charge shall be known as the building director. The qualifications for the building director, building inspector and other code enforcement personnel shall be established by the mayor and council.
(1)
Restrictions on employees. An officer or employee connected with the department shall not be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, structure, service, system, or in the making of plans or of specifications thereof, unless he is the owner of such. This officer or employee shall not engage in any other work which is inconsistent with his duties or conflict with the interests of the department.
(2)
Records. The building director or designated staff, shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the building department. The records of the department shall be open to public inspection. Complete and accurate records shall be maintained regarding the date, time, and findings of each inspection or investigation.
(3)
Liability. Any officer or employee charged with the enforcement of this article, acting for the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any officer or employee or member because of such act performed by him in the enforcement of any provision of this article shall be defended by the city until the final termination of the proceedings.
(4)
Reports. The building director or designated staff shall submit annually a report covering the work of the building department during the preceding year.
(Ord. of 3-7-11(2), § 2)
Sec. 18-3. - Existing buildings.
(a)
General. Additions, alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work shall comply with all the requirements of the codes as listed herein for new construction. The building director and fire chief shall determine the extent to which any existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the listed codes for new construction. Such determination shall be made in writing.
(b)
Change of occupancy. Subject to the written approval of the building director and fire chief, the change in use or occupancy of an existing structure shall be permitted provided that the change of use is a less hazardous use as solely determined by the building director and fire chief.
(Ord. of 3-7-11(2), § 2)
Sec. 18-4. - Special historic buildings.
The provisions of the technical codes relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the building director and fire chief to not constitute a distinct life safety hazard.
(Ord. of 3-7-11(2), § 2)
Secs. 18-5—18-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FLOW-RATE RESTRICTIONS ON PLUMBING FIXTURES

Sec. 18-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial means any type of building other than residential.
Construction means the erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable, or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet, or urinal in an existing building.
Residential means any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-22. - Residential restrictions.
On or after July 1, 1991, no construction may be initiated within the city for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; provided, however, this subsection shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1992.
(2)
Employs a showerhead that allows a flow of more than an average of 2.5 gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure.
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of 1.0 gallons of water per flush.
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2.5 gallons of water per minute.
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 2)
Sec. 18-23. - Commercial restrictions.
On or after July 1, 1992, there shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated within the city or any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of subsections 18-22(1) through (5).
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 3)
Sec. 18-24. - Repairs, renovations.
The requirements of section 18-22 shall apply to any residential construction initiated after July 1, 1991, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 4)
Sec. 18-25. - Exemptions; fee for inspection and issuance.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 18-22, 18-23 and 18-24 when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing building;
(2)
Such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed;
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsections (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the building inspector for the city. A fee of $25.00 shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 5)
Sec. 18-26. - Enforcement; penalty.
(a)
This article shall be enforced by the office of the building official of the city. Citations for violations may be issued by the chief building official of the city.
(b)
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity violating this article shall be tried before the municipal court of the city. Upon conviction, a violation of this article may be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 4-10-95, § 6)
Secs. 18-27—18-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RESERVED[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of Mar. 7, 2011(2), § 1, repealed art. III, §§ 18-51—18-161, which pertained to "Building and Construction Code Administration and Enforcement" and derived from an Ord. of May 22, 1995, § 1.

Secs. 18-51—18-161. - Reserved.
