ARTICLE VI. - NONCONFORMITIES

Sec. 34-181. - Nonconforming lot.
A lot of record as defined in this chapter that does not conform to minimum road frontage requirements or the minimum lot size or minimum lot width requirements for the zoning district in which it is located may be used as a building site, provided that the height, buffer, setback, and other dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which the lot of record is located are complied with or a variance is obtained; and, provided further that, in the case of a lot not served by sanitary sewer, the lot area and width meet the current standards and requirements of the Jackson County Health Department for septic tank use.
(Code 2018, § 16.601)
Sec. 34-182. - Nonconforming building or structure.
A nonconforming building or structure as defined in this chapter may be expanded, enlarged, or extended if such expansion, enlargement, or extension is for a use that conforms to the use requirements for the zoning district in which the building or structure is located. Any such expansion, enlargement, or extension of a nonconforming building or structure shall meet the minimum yard, setback, buffer, height, bulk, and other dimensional requirements for the zoning district in which said nonconforming building or structure is located, and all other requirements of this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.602)
Sec. 34-183. - Nonconforming use.
A nonconforming use may be continued even though such use does not conform with the use provisions of the zoning district in which said use is located, except as otherwise provided in this section.
(1)
Change of use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use. A change in tenancy or ownership shall not be considered a change to another nonconforming use, provided that the use itself remains unchanged.
(2)
Discontinuance or abandonment. A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after discontinuance or abandonment for one year. Vacancy and/or non-use of the building, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall constitute discontinuance or abandonment under this subsection. If a business registration is required for said nonconforming use and the business registration pertaining to said use has lapsed for more than one year, said lapse of business registration shall constitute discontinuance.
(3)
Expansion. A nonconforming use shall not be expanded, enlarged, or extended in land area, floor space, or volume of space in a building or structure, except for a use which complies with the zoning district in which said use is located.
(4)
Repair. A nonconforming use shall not be rebuilt, altered, or repaired after damage exceeding 50 percent of its replacement cost at the time of damage as determined by the Building Inspector, except for a use which conforms with the zoning district in which said use is located, and provided such rebuilding, alteration, or repair is completed within one year of such damage.
(Code 2018, § 16.603)
Sec. 34-184. - Correction of nonconforming situations.
(a)
Intent. It is the intent of this section to require the complete correction of nonconforming situations at the time of any building addition or significant modification of a use or development on a given parcel of land, if such nonconforming situation can physically be made to comply with the requirements of this chapter. It is the intent of this section to require the reduction in the extent of nonconforming situations at the time of any building addition or significant modification of a use or development on a given parcel of land, if such nonconforming situation cannot be physically be made to comply entirely with the requirements of this chapter. It is the intent of this section to provide authority to the Zoning Administrator to administer the provisions of this section in a manner that meets these intentions, and the Zoning Administrator shall exercise that authority.
(b)
Determination of nonconforming situations. For any proposed building or development, or modification of a building or development, it shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to identify the extent to which the improvements on land on which the building or development is proposed constitutes a nonconforming situation, as defined in this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall conduct a review and identify such nonconforming situations at the time plans for such proposed building or development are submitted for review, and at any earlier opportunity, if presented. In the event that one or more nonconforming situations are found to exist by the Zoning Administrator, they shall be documented and notice of the need to correct or reduce said nonconforming situations shall be provided by the Zoning Administrator to the building or development applicant.
(c)
Correction of nonconforming situations. In determining the need to completely correct or reduce the noncompliance of nonconforming situations, the Zoning Administrator shall be guided by the following standards:
(1)
Strict Compliance. A standard of "strict compliance" (complete correction of all nonconforming situations) shall be applied by the Zoning Administrator where physical standards can clearly be made in the subject development proposal without significant alteration of the development as proposed.
(2)
Reasonable progress toward compliance. In lieu of strict compliance, a standard of "reasonable progress toward compliance" shall be applied by the Zoning Administrator in cases where complete correction or compliance with the nonconforming situation would require undue hardship, practical difficulty, or might unreasonably reduce the size, scale, or other significant aspect of the development proposal to a point where strict compliance would jeopardize the building or development proposal. In applying a standard of reasonable progress toward compliance, the Zoning Administrator shall have authority to approve the building, development, or improvement even though it does not meet a standard of strict compliance, if the relief granted is the minimum necessary to effectuate the building, development, or improvement.
(3)
Proportionality. Whenever something less than strict compliance is authorized by the Zoning Administrator, in determining the amount or extent of compliance required, he shall apply a standard of "proportionality," meaning that the scope, scale, extent, and cost of requirements to correct nonconforming situations are more or less comparable to the scope, scale, extent and cost of the improvement or development proposed.
(Code 2018, § 16.605)
Secs. 34-185—34-210. - Reserved.
