Chapter 30 - STREETS AND TRAFFIC[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal power to construct and maintain streets and roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights, and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Authority to repair and maintain streets and sidewalks.
The city shall be authorized to repair or maintain or contract with third parties for the repair or maintenance of all public streets and sidewalks within the city. Repair and maintenance includes the removal of foliage, debris, or any other obstruction that blocks clear vision or obstructs pedestrian traffic.
(Code 2018, § 8.101; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 1, § 1, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-2. - Obstruction of right-of-way.
(a)
No person shall place or cause to be placed in any street and/or sidewalk debris, rubbish, irrigation water, boxes, displays, signs, poles, goods, merchandise, or any other object.
(b)
No person or company shall construct or maintain a drive, yard, or lot constructed of gravel, pebbles, or stone in such a manner that vehicles cause loose stones, pebbles, or gravel to be thrown onto the adjacent street and/or sidewalk.
(c)
Any personal property placed on the right-of-way following an eviction shall be removed within 24 hours of physical eviction unless an extension of time is obtained on behalf of the evicted tenant. For purposes of this article such property is deemed abandoned property 24 hours following eviction unless the landlord by contract specifies a shorter time. If the property is not removed within 24 hours, the city may commence removal and cite the property owner. The penalty assessed shall be 125 percent of the cost the city incurs in removing the property.
(Code 2018, § 8.102; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 2, § 1, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-3. - Skateboards and bicycles.
(a)
No person shall ride a bicycle or propel roller skates, skateboards, or other similar devices upon a public street, highway, or sidewalk in a manner which would constitute an unreasonable danger to the public or which would disrupt the public's ordinary and customary use of such street, highway, or sidewalk.
(b)
No person shall ride a bicycle or propel roller skates, skateboards, or any other similar devices on sidewalks which are properly designated for pedestrians only. The city may erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles or propelling of roller skates, skateboards, or other similar devices.
(c)
Whenever any person is riding a bicycle or skating upon a sidewalk, that person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Code 2018, § 8.103; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 2, § 2, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-4. - Defacing of streets, sidewalks, and curbs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface any public sidewalk, street, or curb in the city by painting any sign thereon, whether for commercial advertising purposes or not, or to walk on, drive any vehicle upon, or injure in any way newly laid street pavement, sidewalk, or curbing while same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or is soft or newly laid.
(Code 2018, § 8.105)
Sec. 30-5. - Deposits and discharges.
(a)
No person shall be permitted to erect any drain, gutter, downspout, valley, flat, or sloping roof of any character that will in any manner drain or shed water on any street or sidewalk of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material or any glass or other article which may do injury to any person, animal, or property.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or allow to be discharged onto any public street or sidewalk any water or other fluid material containing objectionable material such as sewerage, petroleum products, or other organic material.
(Code 2018, § 8.106)
Sec. 30-6. - Trees and shrubs.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure, or cut any tree, bush, or shrub in or from any public street, parkway, or other public place without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Clerk as required by article II of this chapter.
(b)
Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other public place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or limb of a tree which is likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. The city may cause to be trimmed or removed any and all such trees or shrubs so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be removed.
(Code 2018, § 8.107)
Secs. 30-7—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PERMIT FOR WORK OR ENCROACHMENT IN RIGHT-OF-WAY

Sec. 30-31. - Permit required.
(a)
No person or company shall perform construction work in the street right-of-way without a permit issued by the city. Such permit shall be posted at the construction site at all times. Such construction must conform to the construction/maintenance guidelines and specifications of the city and/or the state department of transportation.
(b)
No person or company shall construct a drive or entrance to any public road without a permit from the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any permanent feature such as an irrigation system, sign, or fence in the street right-of-way without a permit from the city.
(Code 2018, § 8.201; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 1, § 2, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-32. - Permit procedure.
Any permit shall indicate in writing all proposed repair, work, maintenance, or alteration to existing city sidewalks or streets, including when possible proposed measurements and plats of any repair, alteration, or maintenance; and compliance with applicable local, state, and federal laws.
(Code 2018, § 8.202; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 1, § 3, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-33. - Road signage and warnings.
(a)
Each person or company to whom a permit has been issued to perform construction work in the street right-of-way shall place appropriate traffic devices and signage as dictated by the current edition of the national Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), as of the date of the codification hereof the 2009 edition with Revision Numbers 1 and 2 incorporated.
(b)
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who obtains a permit under this article to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk, or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guardrails and signal lights or other warnings at, in, or around same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries.
(Code 2018, § 8.203; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 1, § 4, 9-1-2008)
Sec. 30-34. - Repair after excavation.
(a)
When any part of any street, alley, or other property of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person or company performing such construction work shall promptly restore the street, sidewalk, and landscaping to a condition as good as or better condition than before the construction commenced.
(b)
The city may conduct a final inspection to ensure that the street, sidewalk, or public way is restored to a condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or done, and that all debris, materials, tools, and equipment are removed.
(Code 2018, § 8.204; Ord. No. 2008-05, art. 1, § 5, 9-1-2008)
Secs. 30-35—30-56. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - TRAFFIC[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Power of local authorities as to streets and highways under their jurisdiction, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371.

Sec. 30-57. - Uniform rules of the road adopted by reference.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. title 40, ch. 6, Uniform Rules of the Road, is hereby adopted as the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited herein.
(Code 2018, § 8.301)
State Law reference— Municipal authority to adopt by reference Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372.
Sec. 30-58. - Speed zones or limits.
(a)
Speed zones and speed limits shall be as prescribed by ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
(b)
It shall be unlawful and a violation for any person to operate a motor vehicle in excess of such established or posted speed limits. This shall not apply to marked and permitted emergency vehicles in the performance of their official duties and on emergency calls.
(Code 2018, § 8.302; Ord. of 3-15-1978; Ord. No. 9, 9-9-1985; Ord. of 5-5-2003; Ord. No. 27)
State Law reference— Maximum speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-181; and when local authorities may alter maximum speed limits, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183.
Sec. 30-59. - Authority given to county sheriff's department.
The City Council hereby authorizes and enables the county sheriff's department to use speed detection devices within their city's corporate boundaries to legally enforce established speed limits consistent with applicable state law.
(Code 2018, § 8.303; Ord. of 1-3-1994)
State Law reference— State requirements for use of speed detection devices by municipality, O.C.G.A. § 40-14-2.
Secs. 30-60—30-76. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PARKING[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Power of municipality to regulate parking of vehicles on public roads on its municipal street system and on portions of county road systems extending within corporate limits of the municipality, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92(a)(7).

Sec. 30-77. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Park or parking means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading of property or passengers.
(Code 2018, § 8.401; Ord. of 3-1-2004, § 1)
Sec. 30-78. - Obstructing traffic.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on any street or shoulder or any street in such a manner so as to restrict, hinder, or otherwise interfere with the safe flow of traffic on the street. It shall further be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any street in such a manner as to cause damage to the right-of-way.
(Code 2018, § 8.402; Ord. of 3-1-2004, § 2)
Sec. 30-79. - Designation of parking areas; marking.
(a)
The Mayor is authorized to designate specific parking areas or zones within the city in which the parking of vehicles is regulated or prohibited. The Mayor shall make such determinations upon the basis of any evidence indicating that the adoption of such regulations and prohibitions will aid in the reasonable regulation and control of the parking of vehicles and the reasonable movement of traffic.
(b)
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Mayor is authorized to designate areas or zones in which parking is prohibited at all times or at designated times; parking is permitted for specified types of vehicles only; or parking may not exceed a specified consecutive period of time.
(c)
Each parking area or zone shall be marked or indicated by adequate signs setting forth the applicable restriction in a sufficiently legible manner.
(Code 2018, § 8.403; Ord. of 3-1-2004, § 3)
Sec. 30-80. - Compliance with no parking or restricted parking markings or signs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any street in the city where such street or place of such parking has painted thereat a yellow or no parking line or has erected thereat signs providing for parking; or to fail to comply with such marking or sign which limits parking thereat.
(Code 2018, § 8.404; Ord. of 3-1-2004, § 4)
Sec. 30-81. - Enforcement; fine, impoundment of vehicle.
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this article shall be punished by a fine of not more than $50.00. All law enforcement officers shall enforce the provisions of this article and shall be empowered to issue written citations. In addition, where any vehicle has been left unattended in a restricted zone for 24 hours or more, the law enforcement officer is authorized to cause the vehicle to be towed away to the nearest garage or other place of safety, at the expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(Code 2018, § 8.405; Ord. of 3-1-2004, § 5)
Secs. 30-82—30-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ADDRESS NUMBERING AND ROAD AND STREET NAMES

Sec. 30-106. - Purpose.
These regulations of this article are established to provide a system of unique road names and addresses which are essential for successfully improving the response time of fire, police, ambulance vehicles and other emergency services, expediting postal and general delivery services, and enhancing the ability to locate a business and/or residences based on its address. This article is adopted to promote the public health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(b))
Sec. 30-107. - Delegation.
The city hereby delegates to the county geographic information systems (GIS) department and the county public development department overall authority and responsibility for the naming of public/private roads and addressing as directed by provisions of this article. The county GIS department is authorized and empowered to maintain addressing data, coordinate with the public development department, designate road or street numbers, approve road or street names, and assign road or street names. The county public development department is further authorized and empowered to coordinate initial applications, handle code enforcement (shared authority with the city), coordinate with the GIS department, and assist with public inquiries.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(d))
Sec. 30-108. - Applicability.
The provisions set forth herein shall apply to those roads, both public and private (including manufactured/mobile home parks, condominium developments, apartment complexes, malls, shopping plazas, strip buildings, businesses, business or office parks), and addresses which are currently or will be located within the city.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(e))
Sec. 30-109. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Apartment means a unit within a building consisting of two units or more for rent.
Building means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or equipment, and requiring a separate power meter to be installed for the building to have electrical service. This will also include mobile homes or manufactured homes. For the purposes of this article, the term "building" may also include other manmade structures meeting the same requirement as in the first sentence.
Condominium means ownership of a single unit within a structure that may include common areas and facilities.
Driveway means a private road, easement, or private right-of-way, giving access from a public road, private road, or private right-of-way, leading to a building. A driveway does not serve more than two lots/buildings that have or require separate power meters to be installed for electrical service. If a driveway is said to serve more than two lots/buildings, it then shall be assigned and designated with a private road name with all properties addressed along such named private road.
Frontage unit means a frontage unit is a standard interval in feet used to assign consecutive property numbers on a street or road.
GIS means geographic information systems.
GIS addressing coordinator means an employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of assigning addresses and approving road names as defined in this article. This person shall be designated by the county GIS manager and will be an employee of the county GIS department.
GIS manager means an employee or other designated official or person charged with the responsibility of managing the county GIS department.
Honorary road name means a secondary road name designated to an individual person or organization.
House number means the number assigned by the GIS addressing coordinator to any building for the purpose of identification of the location.
Mailing address means the address assigned by the GIS addressing coordinator and used by the United States Postal Service (USPS) for the purpose of delivery of the United States mail. The property address and mailing address shall be the same for all buildings unless the property owners utilize a post office box for delivery of their mail.
Mobile home means a moveable or transportable dwelling.
Mobile home park means any site or parcel of land under single ownership where land or units are rented, and community utilities provide for the occupancy of mobile homes.
Official road name means the name as designated in the complete list of all roads in the county and on file with the county GIS department.
Private road means any road which is not maintained by GDOT and/or the county or its municipalities through the use of public funds, or is not a driveway as defined by this article.
Public road means any road which is maintained by the county, a county municipality, and/or by the state department of transportation.
Road means a public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or egress. Such roads may be of various types including frontage roads, rear access roads, roads with cul-de-sacs, and dead-end roads. The term "road" includes secondary roads, but does not include driveways. For purposes of this article, road and street shall have the same meaning.
Road sign means a metal blade and necessary hardware used to convey a road name, block range, and, where applicable, the state road number.
Unit designator means the portion of the mailing address used to distinguish individual units within the same structure.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(f))
Sec. 30-110. - Abbreviations.
The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
E 911 means emergency 911; a system used that links emergency callers with the appropriate public services.
(2)
ESRI means the Environmental Systems Research Institute; a global company that provides the means for organizing and analyzing geographical information to help land planners and resource managers make well-informed environmental decisions.
(3)
FGDC means the Federal Geographic Data Committee; a U.S. committee that coordinates the development of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure.
(4)
FHWA means the Federal Highway Administration; agency in the U.S. Department of Transportation that supports states and local governments in the design, construction, and maintenance of the nation's highway system.
(5)
GDOT means the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(6)
GISOP means the county GIS department operating procedures technical guide. The document used as a guideline by the GIS addressing coordinator and GIS department that will have the authority to authorize and approve alternate methods of displaying road naming and addressing which meet the intent of this article. This document may be changed periodically at the discretion of GIS department.
(7)
MRAD means the master road and address database.
(8)
MUTCD means the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; standard for signs, signals, and pavement markings in the United States. MUTCD is published by the FHWA.
(9)
NENA means the National Emergency Numbering Association; professional organization that promotes the implementation and awareness of 911 and the international three-digit emergency communication systems.
(10)
USPS means the United States Postal Service.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(g))
Sec. 30-111. - Consideration of new or proposed road names.
The naming of roads, particularly in new subdivisions, shall be reviewed and approved by the county GIS department and the county public development department per the selection standards provided in this article. Persons submitting road names that are rejected shall be notified so that changes may be made prior to the plan review process.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(h))
Sec. 30-112. - Selection standards.
In addition to those outlined in the GISOP, the following standards will be used in consideration of new or proposed road names. All current roads that would otherwise not meet these standards will be granted exceptions and maintain those names until changes, if considered, can be made to conform to this article.
(1)
Names of new roads or proposed changes must not duplicate, in wording, in sound or pronunciation, an existing road within county regardless of distance between occurrences or in address ranges/block numbers. For communities that cross county boundaries the road names should not duplicate any other road name within the incorporated boundaries of that municipality or the same zip code community name, even if it crosses into another adjoining county.
(2)
Road names may not contain abbreviations of words, names, or initials.
(3)
Numerical references are prohibited, such as Fifth, Ten.
(4)
Names of individuals will only be permitted for honorary purposes unless the individual holds a state, national, or local significance.
(5)
Single alphabetical characters are prohibited.
(6)
Road names must be easy to pronounce and easily recognizable in emergency situations.
(7)
Special characters will not be permitted; periods, dashes, apostrophes, hyphens, etc.
(8)
Names that may be offensive (slang, words with double meanings) will not be allowed.
(9)
Road names will be continuous throughout their entire length, when feasible.
(10)
Names which have homonyms (i.e., other words pronounced similarly but spelled differently) should not be used on any street and certainly not on multiple streets even if the street type is different (e.g., Steven Lane/Stephen Lane; Disk Drive/Disc Lane).
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(i))
Sec. 30-113. - Prefixes and suffixes.
Directional prefixes and suffixes will be used only when necessary. If used, cardinal (north, south, east, and west) directions will only be used as prefixes and ordinal (northwest, northeast, southwest, and southeast) directions will only be used as suffixes, in accordance to established baselines as outlined in the GISOP. The use of both a prefix and suffix for addresses and road names will not be permitted.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(j))
Sec. 30-114. - Road types.
(a)
Each approved road name will be required to have a road type. There shall only be one road type per road name. Road types permitted for use in the county will be in compliance with the standards of USPS Publication 28.
(b)
Both the county GIS department and the county public development department have the authority to determine which road type shall be suitable for the new or proposed name, as outlined in the GISOP.
(c)
If the requested type is deemed inappropriate by the county public development department, a new one must be chosen.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(k))
Sec. 30-115. - Reserving road names.
(a)
A request for road name reservation can be presented to the county public development department for any new planned development. These road names will be reviewed and reserved in the road name inventory, if approved.
(b)
Road names may only be reserved for two years. Upon reaching the two-year mark from date of reservation, the names will no longer be reserved, should a written extension request not be made. A new request for an additional one year extension of the road name reservation must be submitted to the county public development department.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(l))
Sec. 30-116. - Approvals.
All proposed road names shall be reviewed and approved by the county GIS department and the county public development department during the site or development plan review period. The appropriate county GIS layers shall be amended by the county GIS department to reflect all newly approved road names.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(m))
Sec. 30-117. - Change to approved road names.
Roads name changes shall be authorized only by action of the City Council.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(n))
Sec. 30-118. - Road naming or road name change by petition.
Whenever a change to an approved and addressed road name is requested by a property owner or developer with access to the subject road, the following procedures shall apply:
(1)
A complete application shall be made with the county department of public development which shall be accompanied by a petition signed by 66 percent (two-thirds) or more of the property owners adjoining said road in agreement. (An affected property owner is one who owns an interest in property contiguous to the street). A nonrefundable application fee as set forth in the city fee schedule must be submitted to the county public development department prior to processing; provided, however, applications initiated by city or county staff will have no fees associated with them.
(2)
Within 30 days of submittal, the department will determine the percentage of the affected property owners that have signed the petition. If less than 66 percent of the affected property owners have signed the petition, it will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant. If 66 percent or more have signed, the department will review the proposed road name for compliance with the requirements of this article.
(3)
If the proposed road name meets all criteria provided in the GISOP, the proposed road name will be placed on a "reserve list" in the road book. A letter will then be sent by the county GIS department to affected county departments for review and comments. If the requested name change receives any unfavorable comments, the county GIS department will schedule a meeting with affected departments and agencies to develop recommendations as to the beginning and ending points of said change (if necessary), or name change, or any road number changes that may be applicable.
(4)
After review and acceptance by the county departments of the request, and if 66 percent or more of the affected property owners have signed a petition, then the proposal will be placed on the agenda of the City Council. If all of the affected property owners do not agree to the requested road name change, or if less than 100 percent have signed the petition, then an advertised public hearing before the City Council will be scheduled and held. Note, however, that at least 66 percent of the affected property owners must sign the petition for it to be accepted for processing.
(5)
A notice advertising the name change shall be required to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and county at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days, before the public hearing.
(6)
If, after public hearing, the name change is approved by the City Council, then the county departments will make changes as necessary and again notify affected property owners and public agencies in writing at least ten days before the change becomes effective.
(7)
The applicant for road name change that has been approved shall be responsible for revising any final plats and paying any associated fees. The applicant shall also be responsible for the cost of new road name signs that will replace existing road name signs.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(o))
Sec. 30-119. - Honorary designations.
Honorary designations are discouraged but can be initiated by the City Council.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(p))
Sec. 30-120. - Renaming existing roads for emergency purposes.
Road names (public or private) may be changed by the county GIS department as necessary for health, safety, and welfare reasons and efficiency of the emergency response system. Owners of adjoining properties shall be notified in writing that the change is taking place and provided a list of proposed road names from which input shall be considered. A selection will be chosen after receiving input and be presented to the City Council for approval. For any case in which a continuous road has multiple names, the county GIS department will determine the correct name and notify owners along such road of the name change. In the event of a conflict in either road naming or addressing, the county GIS department will use its best judgment to resolve the conflict and have the responsibility of notifying the owner, E 911, USPS, and other agencies.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(q))
Sec. 30-121. - Temporary road names.
Temporary road names for events or special occasions will not be permitted.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(r))
Sec. 30-122. - Road name signage.
Sign location and installation shall be in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), published by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) under 23 CFR 655, subpart F (23 CFR 655.601 et seq.). Road signs will contain the prefix (if used), road name, road type, suffix (if used), and block numbers. Private roads will be marked as such in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD).
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(s))
Sec. 30-123. - Official road name database/road book.
Road names that are assigned to roads shall be kept in a "road book" and have the road characteristics for each road centerline of the master road dataset. The county GIS department shall make this information available via internet (for public use) and intranet (for internal use). The county GIS department may designate other departments and/or personnel to maintain information as deemed practical, and shall provide means for the designated personnel to update the road book accordingly.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(t))
Sec. 30-124. - Addressing applicability.
Addresses will be assigned on all roads and shall have a road sign placed on the main road or highway.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(u))
Sec. 30-125. - Property legal descriptions.
The adoption and implementation of this article shall not affect the legal descriptions of any property or be used to determine legal descriptions.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(v))
Sec. 30-126. - Ordering of addressing components.
Components of a property address shall always be in the following order: address number, address number suffix (if used prior to ordinance), directional prefix (if any), road name, road type, directional suffix (if any), unit type designation (if applicable), and a unit number (if applicable).
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(w))
Sec. 30-127. - Assignment and standards.
Addresses shall be determined based on the distance from the intersection of the driveway with the road and the current surrounding addresses, if compliant with this article. Additional standards used to determine addresses are as provided in the GISOP.
(1)
Multiple structures sharing driveway. If more than two addressable structures access a common driveway as defined, that driveway will be assigned a private road name and all addresses will be assigned along such private road.
(2)
Corner and multiple fronting parcels. Corner or double fronting parcels shall be assigned an address based on the driveway location of the intersecting road. If that entrance is not visible from that road or is inaccessible for emergency services, then the address shall be based on the road which the structure faces.
(3)
Duplex/attached structures. Each unit of structure shall receive its own individual address as determined by the county GIS department. This would include townhouses and condominiums.
(4)
Multiple-unit structures. Separate internal units within, or associated with, residential or commercial complexes shall have an individual address and be uniquely identified by the use of a unit type. All educational, medical, residential, industrial facilities, and/or any other type of property with private roads that is sold shall not be allowed to change addressing or road names without written approval of the county GIS department. If road names or addresses are changed without approval, the property owner will be subject to penalties as provided for in this chapter.
(5)
Vacant parcels. Vacant parcels less than one acre may be pre-addressed at the discretion of the county GIS department. This pre-address shall be assigned to the center point of the parcel frontage. All other parcels will not carry an address until placement of a structure.
(6)
Miscellaneous structures. Structures requiring an address for metering or permitting purposes shall be given their own individual address and a unit designator. These structures may include billboards/signs, power poles, utility assets and others.
(7)
Mobile/manufactured home parks. Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout the mobile home park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address number of each lot must be clearly displayed on the mobile home which is located on that lot and must be clearly visible from the road. If the lot is more than 50 feet from the road, the address number shall be displayed at the end of the road or easement giving access to that mobile home. Addresses are not transferrable with the mobile home.
(8)
Wireless towers. Wireless towers shall be assigned one address to the tower owner. Should the tower have multiple carriers, each carrier will be assigned a suite number that will include the address of the tower owner. A sign or post which clearly indicated the address number assigned to the tower shall be located at the entry point of the road on which the tower is located.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(x))
Sec. 30-128. - Numbering system.
The county GIS department shall develop and maintain a uniform scaled system of numbering addresses. This addressing system shall be used in designating addresses for new and existing structures and to resolve address problems which tend to confuse the traveling public or tend to delay the response of emergency services, mail delivery, and other service providers. Baselines and the point of origin shall be defined in the GISOP to include the numbering structure for the county. Addressing shall conform to the GISOP; however, the county GIS department reserves the right to amend as needed.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(y))
Sec. 30-129. - Specifications and placement of address numbers.
(a)
All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable, weather-resistant material. The color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted on glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible. Reflective numbers for nighttime identification are required, if not in a well-lit area.
(b)
In accordance with the applicable fire code and city code, rules, and regulations regarding property maintenance, address numbers for both residential and commercial buildings shall not be less than four inches in height. Unit designators for these facilities shall not be less than four inches. In all cases, a number larger than the minimum size may be required where the minimum size does not provide adequate identification from the traveled roadway or is proportional to the building size. All numerical identifications must be easily identifiable without obstruction of view. Any dwelling or individual business located at more than 50 feet from the roadway and/or not clearly visible shall be required to have numerical posting at both the entrance or driveway and located in close proximity to the front door or entranceway.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(z))
Sec. 30-130. - Responsibility for placement of address numbers.
It shall be the responsibility of each and every property owner, trustee, lessee, agent, and occupant of each residence, apartment building, business, or industry to post and maintain, at all times, address numbers as required under this article. All addresses shall be displayed in such a way that they are unobstructed and legible from the traveled roadway.
(1)
New addresses. The owner, occupant, or agent of each house, building, or other structure assigned an address under the uniform numbering system shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building, or other structure within 30 days after receiving notification from the county GIS department and/or the county public development department of the proper number assignment or within 30 days of occupancy, whichever is sooner.
(2)
Existing addresses. The owner, occupant, or agent of any existing house, building, or other structure existing as of the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived, shall place or cause to be placed the number on the house, building, or other structure within 60 days after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(aa))
Sec. 30-131. - Changes of addresses.
(a)
If an address number is changed for any reason, the county GIS department shall be responsible for assigning the new address number. Requests for address reassignment should be made to the county public development department. An application fee for reassignment shall be required prior to processing. Application fees are subject to change at the discretion of the county public development department as outlined in the schedule of fees. The form shall be available online on the county website and at the county public development department office. The county GIS department has the authority to change addresses as necessary to ensure conformity throughout the county and efficiency of the emergency response system.
(b)
Requests will be reviewed within five business days for consideration and approval, but may be extended should further consideration be needed. When such a change is made, the county public development department shall notify the building owner, the property owner, the county road department, all USPS offices, county offices, and emergency services.
(c)
The owner of the building shall post the changed address numbers within 30 days of receipt of such notice. The owner/resident of the building will be responsible for notifying all suppliers and others of the address change.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(bb))
Sec. 30-132. - Compliance.
(a)
No owner of real property shall attempt to number the property or the principal building, if not in conformity with this article, or fail to number the property or the principal building in conformity herewith. Either the county public development department or the city shall be authorized to send a written notice to any owner not in compliance with this article, to the owner's address as stated in county records, directing specific compliance with a provision of this article.
(b)
If corrective measures have not been taken within 30 days of the notification of violation, a person or business will be subject to penalties provided in section 30-138.
(c)
The county and the city will not assume any responsibility for the inability of emergency services (i.e., sheriff, fire, 911 departments) to locate the property in the event of an emergency due to incorrect property identification.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(cc))
Sec. 30-133. - Development plan requirements.
All land subdivisions that create a new public or private road or road section in any jurisdiction within the county must have a pre-approved list of road names and addresses from the county GIS department or the county public development department before submitting subdivision and development plans to the city department with jurisdiction. All multi-unit and multi-structure developments must submit the site plan with building layout, for unit numbering, to the county public development department prior to occupancy. Any subdivision or site that requires new addresses will be reviewed within seven business days for assignment and subject to the final development/site plan approval before release.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(dd))
Sec. 30-134. - Business occupation taxes.
All businesses, new or existing, must have their address properly displayed in accordance with this article or a penalty will be assessed. All new businesses must have their address verified/confirmed against the master road and address database before an occupational tax certificate will be issued.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(ee))
Sec. 30-135. - Building permits.
No permit shall be issued for any structure until the owner/developer/contractor obtains an official address assigned by the county GIS department.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(ff))
Sec. 30-136. - Certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy (CO) for any structure erected, repaired, or modified shall be withheld until the assigned address is posted on the structure as required by this article.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(gg))
Sec. 30-137. - Enforcement responsibilities.
This article may be enforced by the county public development department, as well as the city. The code enforcement division or any designee of the county public development department or city shall have the responsibility for enforcing this article and issuing citations for violations.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(hh))
Sec. 30-138. - Penalties for violation.
Any person, business, or property owner who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 but in no event to be less than $300.00. Any and all violations of this article shall be prosecuted in the city municipal court. Each day any violation of the provisions of the article shall continue as a separate offense. In the event that violations of this article are not corrected within 30 days of receiving the fine, the county or the city may perform the work needed to comply and bill the property owner. If the bill for work performed is not paid within 90 days of mailing, then a lien may be put on the property to include the cost of the work and any applicable court costs.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(ii))
Sec. 30-139. - Appeals.
Any owner or occupant can submit an informal appeal of an administrative decision made pursuant to this chapter in writing to the director of public development or to the GIS manager of the GIS addressing coordinator. Road naming and/or addressing decisions will be made within ten days of the notification date. The GIS manager shall review within a reasonable time to determine if he will affirm, modify, or revoke the decision of the GIS addressing coordinator. If the appellant still finds the decision unsatisfactory, he may within 15 days of the notification date submit a formal appeal to the City Council. The notice of appeal shall include the application, and the appellant shall submit any applicable fees for filing an appeal application. The City Council shall make its final decision on the appeal, in conformity with this chapter, and it shall be final and conclusive. In the absence of an appeal within the designated timeframes, the decisions of the GIS addressing coordinator or GIS manager shall be final.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(jj))
Sec. 30-140. - Liability.
The county and the city, its officers, agents, or employees, together with any person following their instructions in rendering services, shall not be liable for civil damages as a result of an act or omission under this article, including, but not limited to, developing, adopting, operating, or implementing an addressing system or plan.
(Ord. of 7-7-2018, § 8.104(ll))
