Chapter 14 - ENVIRONMENT AND CONSERVATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SANDY CREEK WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipality to have minimum standards for protection of watersheds, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8(b).

Sec. 14-19. - Findings.
The quality of public drinking water supplies deserves protection. Land disturbing activities associated with development can increase erosion and sedimentation, which threaten the storage capacity of reservoirs and impair the quality of public drinking water supplies. Stormwater runoff, particularly from impervious surfaces, can introduce toxins, nutrients, and sediments into drinking water supplies, making water treatment more complicated and expensive, and rendering water resources unusable for recreation and other uses. Industrial land uses that involve the manufacture, use, transport, and storage of hazardous or toxic waste materials result in potential risks of contamination of nearby public drinking water supplies. Therefore, land use activities within water supply watersheds require regulation to ensure that public water supplies remain clean. The regulations in this article are intended to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediment to water supplies, to maintain the yield of water supply watersheds, and to ensure water can be treated to meet federal and state drinking water standards.
(Code 2018, § 13.202)
Sec. 14-20. - Establishment of district.
There is hereby established an environmental overlay district in the city for the Sandy Creek Reservoir small water supply watershed. The public drinking water intake for the Sandy Creek watershed is on Sandy Creek in Athens-Clarke County. The watershed extends into the unincorporated county and the city. It is a small water supply watershed. A map of the district is adopted and included within this article.
(Code 2018, § 13.203)
Sec. 14-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms, and phrases when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the federal act which are in force and effect on February 1, 2010, codified as 40 CFR 261.3 and any designated hazardous waste.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface which prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, and patios.
Impervious Surface
Land disturbing activity means any grading, scraping, excavating, or filling of land; clearing of vegetation; and any construction, rebuilding, or alteration of a structure. Land disturbing activity shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, yard and grounds upkeep, repairs, additions, or minor modifications to a single-family dwelling, and the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Perennial stream means a stream which flows throughout the whole year as indicated on a United States Geological Survey (USGS) quadrangle map (7.5-minute topographic map prepared at a scale of 1:24,000).
Utility means public or private water or sewer piping systems, water or sewer pumping stations, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems, railroads, or other utilities identified by the city.
Water supply reservoir means a governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems. This excludes the multi-purpose reservoirs owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Water supply watershed means the area of land upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water intake. Water supply watersheds are classified as small (less than 100 square miles within the drainage basin above the drinking water intake) and large (100 square miles or more within the drainage basin above the drinking water intake).
Water supply watershed protection plan means a land use and environmental protection plan prepared and adopted by a local government for the protection of the quality of drinking water obtained from the watershed.
(Code 2018, § 13.204)
State Law reference— Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.; definition of hazardous waste, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-62(10).
Sec. 14-22. - Applicability.
No land shall be disturbed and no use shall be established unless it is consistent with the requirements of this article, except as otherwise specifically exempted from the requirements of this article.
(Code 2018, § 13.205)
Sec. 14-23. - Exemptions.
(a)
Existing land uses. Land uses existing prior to the initial adoption of water supply watershed protection regulations by the city are exempt from the requirements of this article.
(b)
Utilities. Utilities are exempt from the stream corridor and impervious surface setback area provisions of this article if the utilities to be located in the buffer or impervious surface setback areas cannot feasibly be located outside these areas, subject to the following requirements:
(1)
The utilities shall be located as far from the stream bank as reasonably possible.
(2)
The installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such to protect the integrity of the buffer and setback areas as best as reasonably possible.
(3)
The utilities shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(c)
Forestry and agriculture. Forestry and agricultural activities are exempt from the stream corridor buffer and impervious surface setback area provisions of this article, provided that such activities shall be consistent with best management practices established by the state forestry commission or the state department of agriculture, and shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(Code 2018, § 13.206)
Sec. 14-24. - Regulations for small water supply watersheds.
Stream corridors of all perennial streams within a small water supply watershed tributary to a water supply reservoir are protected by criteria specified in this section.
(1)
Buffers and impervious surface setbacks. A buffer shall be maintained for a specified distance on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks, and no impervious surface shall be constructed within a specified setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks, as follows:
Table 14-1. Stream Buffers and Impervious Surface Setbacks
EXPAND
Distance Upstream of Public Drinking Water Intake Minimum Buffer Width Required (Feet) Minimum Impervious Surface Setback Area (Feet)
Within seven-mile radius 100 150
Outside seven-mile radius 50 75
  (2)
Septic tanks and drainfields. Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the impervious surface setback required by this section.
(3)
Sanitary landfills. New sanitary landfills are allowed in a small water supply watershed only if they have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(4)
Hazardous waste. New hazardous waste treatment or disposal facilities are prohibited.
(5)
Hazardous materials. Facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types and amounts determined by the state department of natural resources, if authorized to be located within seven miles of a water supply intake or water supply reservoir, shall perform their operations on impermeable surfaces having spill and leak collection systems as prescribed by the state department of natural resources.
(6)
Maximum impervious surface areas by land use.
a.
Intent. It is the intent of this subsection that the impervious surface area, including all public and private structures, utilities, or facilities, of the entire small water supply watershed shall be limited to 25 percent. Due to the fact that small water supply watersheds extend into areas other than the city and are outside the regulatory authority of the city, a watershed-wide limit is not currently enforceable without an intergovernmental agreement and more careful study of existing land uses in the watershed. To meet the intent of this subsection with regard to watershed-wide impervious surface limitations is met, there are hereby established maximum impervious surface limits by land use.
b.
Applicability. The limitations on total impervious surface area of this subsection apply on a lot-by-lot basis or any portion of a lot within a small water supply watershed except as otherwise provided in this subsection for subdivisions. In the case of a lot only partially located within the small water supply watershed boundary, impervious surface should be concentrated on that portion of the lot outside of the watershed where possible.
c.
Demonstration of compliance. To ensure compliance with this subsection, the Zoning Administrator may require a numerical estimate and graphical depiction of impervious cover areas be prepared by a registered land surveyor or other qualified professional.
d.
Maximum impervious surface. Development within a small water supply watershed shall not exceed the following maximum impervious surface limitations for the respective land use as determined by the Zoning Administrator, except as specifically provided otherwise in this subsection.
Table 14-2. Maximum Impervious Surface Limitations in Small Water Supply Watersheds
EXPAND
Land Use Maximum Impervious Surface (Percent of Total Land Area of the Site Being Developed)
Agricultural 10%
Residential, single-family detached 25%
Residential, two-family or multifamily 30%
Institutional 40%
Commercial 60%
Industrial 60%
  e.
Single-family residential subdivisions. When a residential subdivision for detached, single-family dwellings is proposed on land within a small water supply watershed, the applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the 25 percent maximum impervious surface requirement for the land within the entire subdivision. Roads, sidewalks, and other impervious surfaces within public rights-of-way shall be calculated and the total impervious area shown on the final recorded subdivision plat. A maximum impervious surface for each lot shall be established and shown on the final recorded subdivision plat. Lot development within the subdivision shall not exceed the maximum impervious surface as indicated on the final recorded subdivision plat. Compliance with this section may require that conservation areas be set aside or lots be larger in area than required by the zoning district in which the lots are located.
f.
Pervious pavements. Pervious pavements, where approved and utilized, shall not count as impervious surfaces for purposes of compliance with this subsection.
(Code 2018, § 13.207)
Sec. 14-25. - Mitigation of violation.
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to remove the building or structure. When removal of vegetative cover, or excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(Code 2018, § 13.208)
Secs. 14-26—14-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PROTECTED WETLANDS

Sec. 14-54. - Findings.
Wetlands are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion, and soil limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife, and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities.
(Code 2018, § 13.302)
Sec. 14-55. - Establishment.
There is hereby established a protected wetlands environmental overlay district, which is shown on the accompanying map which is adopted and made a part of this article.
Protected Wetlands Environmental Overlay District
(Code 2018, § 13.303)
Sec. 14-56. - Applicability.
(a)
This article shall apply to all lands within the city that are mapped as protected wetlands as defined by this article.
(b)
No land shall be disturbed and no use shall be established within an area regulated by this article, unless it is consistent with the requirements of this article.
(c)
No development permit or building permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator for a land use, building, structure, or manufactured home, nor shall any activity commence, unless the land use, building, structure, manufactured home or activity conforms to the requirements of this article. Prior to a development permit or building permit being issued, the Zoning Administrator shall require a site plan or subdivision plat in sufficient detail to review the proposed development for compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 2018, § 13.304)
Sec. 14-57. - Relationship to federal regulation.
(a)
The wetlands permit program under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act provides a federal permit process that may allow activities in wetlands after a public interest review. Most activities in wetlands will require a Section 404 Permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If wetlands are altered or degraded, mitigation to offset losses will be required as a condition of a Section 404 Permit. Under current federal policy, alterations or degradations of wetlands should be avoided unless it can be demonstrated that there will be no long-term adverse impacts or net loss of wetlands. Section 401 of the Clean Water Act requires certification by the state for any permit issued under Section 404. Other state and federal laws are also applicable to wetlands and wetlands protection.
(b)
The provisions of this article shall be in addition to any requirements of federal regulations.
(Code 2018, § 13.305)
Sec. 14-58. - Permitted uses.
Only the following uses shall be permitted within a protected wetland, to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining, or dredging except as provided herein. All other uses are prohibited within wetlands.
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish, and other wildlife, provided it does not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual Section 404 Permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding, and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in Section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed, and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research, and nature trails.
(Code 2018, § 13.306)
Sec. 14-59. - Wetland statement on plans and plats.
Design professionals shall indicate wetlands and protected wetlands on all plans required for land disturbance, development, and building, and on any plats required for subdivision. The design professional who prepared the required plan or plat accompanying the permit or plat application shall provide a statement on the plan sheet or plat sheet indicating whether or not a wetland or protected wetland is located on the property.
(Code 2018, § 13.307)
