Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; inspection of public records, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq.; requirements for publication of code, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by Municipal Courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; municipal corporation defined, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Oxford, Georgia" and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened form "Oxford Municipal Code."
(Code 1997, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all sections, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Mayor and City Council.
(1)
Computation of time. The term "computation of time" means time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or section or in any order issued pursuant to any section, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
(2)
Delegation of authority. The term "delegation of authority" means whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the City to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
(3)
Gender; singular and plural. The term "gender" means every term in any Code provision or section importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every term importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(4)
General rule. The words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(5)
Joint authority. The term "joint authority" means all terms purporting to give a joint authority to four or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
(6)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(7)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
(Code 1997, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Code, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the City Council is used in this Code, it means an affirmative vote of the majority of the entire City Council.
City. The term "the City" or "this City" means the City of Oxford, Georgia.
City Council orCouncil. The term "City Council" or "the Council" means the City Council of the City.
City officials; city officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Oxford, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Newton County, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the Municipal Court of the City.
Fee schedule or schedule of fees and charges. The term "fee schedule" or "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list of City fees and other charges adopted by the Council that lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the City Council. A copy of the City fee schedule is available in the office of the City Clerk.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the Mayor and City Council.
Judge or Recorder. The term "Judge" or "Recorder" means the Judge of the Municipal Court of the City.
Mayor. The term "Mayor" means the Mayor of the City.
Mayor and City Council. The term "Mayor and City Council" means the Mayor and City Council of the City.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town," or "municipal corporation."
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the terms "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, agency, partnership, association, organization, government, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every specie of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means anything of value, including, but not limited to, real estate, tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights, services, choses in action, and other interests in or claims to wealth, admission or transportation tickets, captured or domestic animals, food and drink, and electric or other power.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of the pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curb line and improved walkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approach thereto, within the City.
Tenant oroccupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Writing, written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1997, § 1-103)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions and rules of construction, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.; construction of statutory definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; general statutory definition, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines, notes, and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, not as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or section of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1997, § 1-104)
State Law reference— Notes and catch lines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1997, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readapted as a new Code by the City Council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the chapter, section number of this Code in the following language: "That Section _____ of the Code of the City of Oxford, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used. "The Code of the City of Oxford, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a new section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, chapters, or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1997, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It is unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Mayor and City Council.
(Code 1997, § 1-107)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-8. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this Code.
(Code 1997, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Severability of state legislation, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the Judge of the Municipal Court.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the City's Charter or this Code.
(Code 1997, § 1-109)
State Law reference— Maximum penalties that may be imposed by municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6, 36-32-1, 36-32-5; additional penalties and bond in certain criminal and traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5; powers of municipal court judges in criminal cases, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3; jurisdiction of municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6 et seq.
Sec. 1-10. - Ordinances not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Unless otherwise specifically provided in other sections of this Code, nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the City or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the City or any evidence of the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City.
(3)
Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City.
(4)
Any appropriation ordinance.
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the Mayor and City Council to any person.
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the City.
(7)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the City.
(8)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor.
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the City.
(10)
Any ordinance fixing ad valorem taxes.
(11)
Any temporary or special ordinance.
(12)
Any ordinance relating to elections.
(b)
All such ordinances or acts are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this section.
(Code 1997, § 1-110)
