Chapter 6 - BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; building trade contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; enforcement of adopted codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; state minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; county building, electrical, and other codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; local government code enforcement boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-74-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-32. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION CODES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

Sec. 6-33. - State minimum standards and permissive codes adopted.
The City adopts by reference as though fully set forth in this section all building codes and standards as adopted from time to time by the State of Georgia, and authorizes City building personnel to enforce such codes within the City.
(Ord. of 8-6-2018, § 1)
Sec. 6-34. - Codes remedial in nature.
The City's technical codes are remedial in nature, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health, and general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures, or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems.
Sec. 6-35. - Quality control.
Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this Code except as it relates to the purposes stated herein.
Sec. 6-36. - Liability of City.
The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this Code shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the City nor any employee thereof shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such, that may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
Sec. 6-37. - Conflict of regulations.
Where in any specific case sections of the technical codes, of this Code, and of state or federal law or regulation specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
Sec. 6-38. - Appendices to technical codes.
Appendices referenced in the code text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes.
Sec. 6-39. - Referenced standards.
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
Sec. 6-40. - Requirements not covered by codes.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this of the other technical codes, shall be determined by the Building Inspector.
Sec. 6-41. - Alternate materials and methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall approve any such alternate, provided the Building Inspector finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The Building Inspector shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
