Chapter 123 - WETLANDS

Sec. 123-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Jurisdictional wetlands means an area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Jurisdictional wetlands determination means a delineation of jurisdictional wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33 USC 1344, as amended.
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States excepting those activities exempted in section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophilic vegetation. The term "wetlands" generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetlands map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for the city.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city as indicated on the wetlands map; provided, however, that the wetlands map does not necessarily represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the city and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this chapter does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. No. 01-01-02, ยง 5-100, 1-23-2001)
Sec. 123-2. - Permitting determination.
The county planning and zoning shall compare proposals for land disturbance or development with the generalized wetlands map and decide whether local permitting should proceed or to be deferred pending a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination. Upon review of project proposals submitted, one of two actions should result:
(1)
A local permit is issued without requiring jurisdictional wetlands determination by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. This action should be taken when the activity being proposed meets either of the following tests:
a.
It is not the type of activity that would cause the alteration of wetlands; or
b.
The proposed location of the activity is not near or within a protected wetland boundary as shown on the generalized wetlands map adopted by the local government.
(2)
The local permit is deferred pending a jurisdictional wetlands determination by the Corps of Engineers. This action should be taken when the activity being proposed fails both the above tests (.i.e., it is a type of activity that would cause alteration of wetlands, and the proposed location of the activity is near or within a wetland boundary.) In this case, the local permit is issued only after a letter of permission or section 404 permit is obtained from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. No. 01-01-02, ยง 5-101, 1-23-2001)
