ARTICLE III. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 3.1. - Abandoned real property.
3.1.1.
[Public street or alley.] For any public street or alley which is hereafter officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall apply to the centerline property which is abandoned. In the event abandoned property is not divided at the centerline for abutting properties, the zoning districts applicable shall apply to such ownership line as determined by virtue of such abandonment.
3.1.2.
[Public property other than streets or alleys.] For any public property other than streets or alleys the regulations applicable to the zoning classifications which abuts the abandoned property for the greatest number of lineal feet shall apply to the entire property.
Sec. 3.2. - Abandoned vehicles.
Within all zoning districts except where specifically authorized, all vehicles which are inoperative and/or unlicensed shall not be abandoned in the public right-of-way or on private property in excess of thirty (30) days except within a completely enclosed garage, unless permission is granted upon application to the governing authority.
(Mo. of 3-2-1982)
Sec. 3.3. - Access control.
In order to promote the safety of motorists and the pedestrian and to minimize traffic congestion and conflict by reducing the magnitude of and the number of points of contact, the following regulations shall apply:
3.3.1.
Appoint of access, that is, a driveway or other opening for vehicles onto a public street, shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in width, except as otherwise provided in this section.
3.3.2.
The maximum number of points of access permitted onto any one street shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Lot Width Abutting Street Number of Points of Access
Less than 65 feet 1
65 feet to 200 feet 2
Greater than 200 feet 2, plus 1 for each additional 200 feet or fraction thereof.
  3.3.3.
In lieu of any two (2) openings permitted on any one street, there may be permitted a single point of access up to thirty-five (35) feet in width. However, service stations shall be permitted two (2) openings, not to exceed thirty-five (35) feet each in width along any abutting public street providing that such property abuts such street for a distance of not less than one hundred twenty (120) feet.
3.3.4.
There shall be a minimum distance of twelve (12) feet between any two (2) openings onto the same street.
3.3.5.
No point of access shall be allowed within twenty (20) feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of any public street.
3.3.6.
No curbs shall be cut or altered and no point of access or opening for vehicles onto a public street shall be established without a permit issued by the local governing authority under the supervision of the appropriate engineer.
Sec. 3.4. - Accessory buildings in residential districts.
No accessory building in Residential districts shall be erected in any required court or any yard other than a rear yard, except as provided hereafter. An accessory building may be erected as part of a principal building or if at least six (6) feet therefrom, may be connected thereto by a breezeway or similar structure, provided all yard requirements of this ordinance for a principal building are complied with.
3.4.1.
Corner lots in agricultural and residential district. Any Agricultural or Residential district, where a corner lot adjoins in the rear a lot fronting on the side street, no part of any accessory building on such corner lot within twenty-five (25) feet of the common lot line shall be nearer a side road lot line than the least depth of the front yard required along such side street for a dwelling on such lot, and in no case shall any part of such accessory building be nearer to the side road lot line than the least width of the side yard required for the principal building to which it is accessory.
3.4.2.
Setbacks for accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be a distance at least ten (10) feet from alley lines, and at least ten (10) feet from lot lines of adjoining lots in a residential district.
Sec. 3.5. - Buildings on through lots.
Where a lot extends through from one street to another, the setback requirement for each such street shall be complied with and any building shall have dual facing. No accessory building or other structure shall be placed on through lots if said structures would conflict with other building values or uses on the same street. On lots having frontage on more than two (2) streets, the minimum front yard shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance on at least two (2) of the street frontages.
Sec. 3.6. - Churches and schools.
Public schools shall be subject to the regulations in this ordinance set forth in section 5.3.
3.6.1.
Private schools, churches and religious institutions shall be permitted in agricultural, single-family residential districts, agricultural residential districts, multi-family residential districts, general commercial, and neighborhood commercial districts provided that the following requirements are complied with:
3.6.1.1.
Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in article III, section 29.
3.6.1.2.
The principal building and accessory buildings shall comply with the yard and setback requirements of the district in which it is located; and in no case less than the minimum requirements set forth in the district.
3.6.2.
Private schools, churches and religious institutions may be permitted in other districts only after recommendations of the planning commission, which shall hold a public hearing on such request, see article VII, section 2.
Sec. 3.7. - Cemeteries, mausoleums, crematories.
No premises shall be used or occupied for the purpose of a cemetery, mausoleum, or crematory in any district excepting in multi-family residential, single-family residential, agricultural residential, and agricultural districts, and then only upon approval after public hearing. No land for which a plat has not been recorded shall be used for any burials. The dead shall not be buried or placed closer than ten (10) feet to any highway right-of-way, nor closer than ten (10) feet to any other property line. The minimum size for a cemetery shall be one acre.
(Mo. of 3-2-1982)
Sec. 3.8. - Conversion of dwellings.
The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for similar occupancy would be permitted under this ordinance, and only when the resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new construction in such district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and other open spaces, and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be subject also to such further requirements as may be specified hereinafter within the article applying to such district.
Sec. 3.9. - Deed restrictions.
These regulations shall not affect any deed restrictions or restrictive covenants recorded with any deed, plat, or other legal document relating to the use or lot and building requirements.
Sec. 3.10. - Excavation of sand, gravel, or other material (for industrial or commercial use).
Excavation shall be considered a temporary use, and shall be permitted only in Agricultural districts and when required, excavations shall conform to criteria as outlined in the county soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance. The extent of excavation shall not be nearer than one hundred (100) feet to any school, church, dwelling, or highway.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.11. - Existing uses.
Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be deemed or construed to prohibit a continuation of the particular lawful use or uses of any land, building, structure, improvement or premises legally existing in the respective districts at the time this ordinance became effective; provided, however, that if any such existing lawful uses change to a different use after the date of the adoption of this ordinance, such different use shall conform to the provisions of this ordinance regulating the particular district in which said premises is situated. If any legally existing use or occupancy of a building or premises conflicts with any requirement of this ordinance or any of its amendments, such building shall not be moved, structurally altered or added to except after a public hearing.
All future buildings, structures, repairs, alterations or other improvements shall comply with all district requirements contained herein, and such structural provisions of the building code and other regulations as have been incorporated herein and made a part hereof, including any building on which construction had been suspended at the time this ordinance was adopted and any building for which foundations were not completed at said time.
No nonconforming building or structure shall be extended or enlarged except when authorized by the Liberty County Joint Planning Commission which may permit one enlargement or extension up to twenty-five (25) percent of the floor area of the structure as it existed at the time of passage of this ordinance.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.12. - Dilapidated buildings.
Dilapidated and/or burned out buildings or mobile homes shall be removed from the property on which they are located within ninety (90) days after notice by the joint planning commission.
Sec. 3.13. - Garbage disposal.
Garbage or other refuse shall be deposited only in approved garbage cans or in approved garbage disposal areas.
Sec. 3.14. - Group housing.
Group housing developments, two (2) single or multiple family dwellings to be constructed in a plot of ground under single ownership of one acre or more, not subdivided into the customary streets and lots and which shall not be so subdivided, may be developed in any multi-family district provided that:
3.14.1.
Maximum percent of lot coverage shall not exceed that which is required for the districts in which the project is located.
3.14.2.
Height limits, front, side, or rear yard requirements shall be met in accordance with the district in which such group housing is permitted.
Sec. 3.15. - Home occupations.
A.
Intent and purpose. Certain occupational uses termed "home occupations" are allowed in dwelling units on the basis that such uses are incidental to the use of the premises as a residence. In this regard, such home occupations shall be subject to special regulations to ensure that the same will not be a detriment to the character and livability of the surrounding neighborhood. The regulations ensure that the accessory home occupation remains subordinate to the residential use and the residential viability of the dwelling is maintained. The regulations recognize that many types of jobs can be done in a home with little or no effect on the surrounding neighborhood and, as such, may be permitted provided such uses:
1.
Are incidental to the use of the premises as a residence;
2.
Are conducted within the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner;
3.
Are compatible with residential uses;
4.
Are limited in extent and do not detract from the residential character of the neighborhood.
B.
Definition of accessory home occupations. There are two (2) types of home occupations, type A and type B. Permit requirements and uses allowed in each type vary and are allowed only if they comply with all of the requirements of this ordinance. Deviation from any standard requires a variance approval from the board of commissioners.
1.
In type A home occupations residents use their home as a place of work, home office or business telephone or mailing address. Employees or customers are prohibited from coming to the site, and there is no visible indication of commercial activity. By way of illustration only, examples include artists, crafts people, writers and consultants. Type A home occupations may be approved administratively by the zoning administrator or his designee.
2.
In type B home occupations the resident uses their home for work which requires or results in either employees or customers coming to the site on an infrequent basis. Examples are counseling, tutoring, family daycare, and single-chair hair cutting and styling. Type B home occupations must obtain a conditional use permit from the board of commissioners due to their greater possible impact on the surrounding neighborhood as a result of individuals and visitors from outside the neighborhood coming to the property.
C.
General provisions and prohibited uses. All home occupations shall meet the following:
1.
A home occupation shall be incidental and accessory to the use of a dwelling as a residence. No more than twenty (20) percent of the floor space of the dwelling unit (including attached garages) may be used for the home occupation.
2.
There shall be no exterior evidence of the home occupation or alteration of the residence and/or accessory buildings to accommodate the home occupation. Internal or external changes which will make the dwelling appear less residential in nature or function are prohibited. Examples of such prohibited alterations include construction of parking lots, paving of required setbacks, or adding commercial-like exterior lighting.
3.
There shall be no outside operations or exterior storage of inventory, equipment, or materials to be used in conjunction with a home occupation.
4.
Off-site employees of the resident shall not congregate on the premises for any purpose concerning the home occupation nor park their personal vehicles at the location.
5.
No more than one (1) vehicle associated with the home occupation (no larger than a standard van or pick-up truck and with minimal commercial markings as approved by the zoning administrator) may be parked at the site. Such vehicle is limited to one-ton carrying capacity and must be used exclusively by the resident and parked on a valid improved surface constructed of materials common in conventional residential development (e.g., concrete, pavers, etc.) and which is otherwise compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
6.
No use or activity may create an offensive noise, dust, glare, vibration, smoke, smell, electrical interference or any fire hazard, unsightly or unhealthful condition, or other nuisance or disturbance.
7.
All home occupations shall be subject to periodic inspections by the department of planning and zoning.
8.
Any type of repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal combustion engines (such as, autos, motorcycles, marine engines, lawn mowers, chain saws, and other small engines) or of large appliances (such as, washing machines, dryers, and refrigerators) or any other work related to automobiles and their parts is prohibited.
9.
Accessory home occupations may not serve as headquarters or dispatch centers where employees come to the site and are dispatched to other locations.
D.
Specific criteria for Type A home occupations. In addition to the general criteria established in subsection C, type A home occupations are subject to the following restrictions:
1.
No clients, nonresident employees or customers are allowed on the premises.
2.
Pickups from and deliveries to the site in regard to the business shall be restricted to vehicles which have no more than two (2) axles and shall be restricted to no more than two (2) pickups or deliveries per day between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
3.
No signage regarding the home occupation is permitted on the property.
4.
No advertisement shall be placed in any media (including flyers soliciting business) containing the address of the property.
5.
Retail sales are prohibited.
E.
Specific criteria for Type B home occupations. In addition to the general criteria established in subsection C, type B home occupations are subject to the following restrictions:
1.
A conditional use permit must be obtained from the board of commissioners following a public hearing. The board of commissioners shall consider the desires of the immediate neighborhood, the nature of the proposed business, the availability of parking, traffic generation and any other issue that may detract from the residential character of the area and property values. The public hearing shall follow the same procedures as set forth in section 7.3 and article IX of the zoning ordinance of Liberty County, Georgia.
2.
No type B home occupation may be established in districts zoned for multifamily residential purposes or zoned R-4.
3.
Two (2) nonresident employees are allowed with a type B home occupation provided no customers come to the site and adequate parking is provided on-site. Home occupations which have customers coming to the site are not allowed to have nonresident employees (defined as an employee, business partner, co-owner, or other person affiliated with the home occupation, who does not live at the site, but who visits the site as part of the home occupation.
4.
Retail sales of goods must be entirely accessory to any permitted services provided on the site (such as hair care products sold as an accessory to hair cutting); except that the sale of garden produce grown on the premises within A-1 or AR-1 zoning districts shall be permitted in accordance with this ordinance, provided that this exception shall not extend to allow the operation of a commercial greenhouse or nursery or the existence of stands or booths for display of such produce.
5.
No more than one (1) type B home occupation per dwelling is permitted.
6.
Customers may visit the site only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Unless otherwise specifically approved by the board of commissioners, no more than two (2) customers or other business visitors shall be permitted at any one (1) time at the residence.
7.
Unless otherwise specifically approved by the board of commissioners, no signage shall be permitted. if specifically approved by the board of commissioners, the home occupation is permitted one (1) sign only according to the following criteria:
a)
Signs shall be mounted against the wall of the principal building, and unless otherwise indicated by the board of commissioners shall not exceed one (1) square foot in area;
b)
Signs may not be illuminated in any fashion;
c)
No detached sign may exceed four (4) feet in height; and
d)
All signs, including shape, color and materials must be such as not to detract from the residential character of the neighborhood, and shall be approved by the zoning administrator or his designee prior to installation.
F.
[Additional requirements.] The foregoing requirements for home occupation shall be in addition to those requirements for business licenses generally, and any violation of these requirements shall be grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of the subject business license, and vice versa. Upon any violation of this ordinance, the home occupation may be suspended, denied or terminated as with business licenses generally.
G.
[Renewal application.] All persons wishing to renew their home occupation from the previous year shall make application for such renewal at the same time as provided for renewals of business licenses generally on such forms as may be prepared by the zoning administrator. Notwithstanding any terminology used in this section or any other provision herein to the contrary, the granting of a home occupation for one (1) year shall in no way vest any rights or privileges whatsoever to any renewal or subsequent permit, and such person must satisfy in full the requirements for such business license established by ordinance at the time of such renewal; provided, however, that if there is no change in the home occupation and the operations connected thereto, the zoning administrator shall be empowered to grant any such application for renewal without further consideration, whether type A or type B.
(Ord. of 9-2-2003)
Sec. 3.16. - Junkyards.
3.16.1.
All junkyards shall be completely screened from roads or developed areas with a solid fence or wall a minimum of six (6) feet, maintained in good condition as determined by the local governing authority, and painted except for masonry construction, or with suitable plantings.
3.16.2.
No operations shall be conducted which shall cause a general nuisance or endanger the public health.
3.16.3.
All existing junkyards shall have complied with these requirements within one year of the date of this ordinance, or shall then have terminated their operation.
Sec. 3.17. - Land and water fills, dredging, excavations and mining.
No person shall engage in the filling of land or water areas, dredging, the excavation of land or removal of earth and no mining operation shall be undertaken without application to the planning commission which shall refer and recommend approval or rejection to the governing authority. All applications for permits for any activities covered by this section shall be referred to the planning commission for its recommendation.
Sec. 3.18. - Land subject to flooding.
No new construction or substantial improvement of residential structures or location of a mobile home shall be permitted in a flood hazard area, unless the lowest floor (including basement) is elevated to or above the level of the one hundred-year flood.
Sec. 3.19. - Living units in zones other than residential.
Dwellings shall not be permitted in any business or industrial zone as a principal use. However, living units may be established within the principal building in a business or industrial use; provided that such living units within any general commercial or neighborhood commercial district shall have direct access to an abutting street. In the general commercial or neighborhood commercial districts, living units shall be permitted as accessory to the permitted use, and single-family dwellings as accessory uses shall be permitted on existing lots of record including other uses permitted on the same lot.
Sec. 3.20. - Minimum living area.
No single or multiple-family living unit shall be constructed with a total living area of less than five hundred twenty-five (525) square feet. Provided, however, that a special exception to the minimum living area requirements may be granted, if it is established that the granting of such exception will not adversely affect the interest of the general public or the character of the surrounding neighborhood. Application for any such special exception shall be made to the planning commission.
The planning commission shall forward its recommendations to the governing authority for its action. The planning commission may require the submission of plans in connection with such applications, showing the location and type of construction proposed, and may impose such additional requirements as a condition of the granting of the request as it deems reasonable and appropriate. (This section shall not apply to mobile homes meeting all other requirements of this ordinance.)
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.21. - Mobile homes, trailers, mobile home parks and trailer parks.
No trailer or mobile home shall be parked outside of a trailer or mobile home park, unless specifically permitted to provide living quarters or space for the conduct of business, except that it may be used temporarily for office purposes during the construction of a principal building or a road, on the issuance of a temporary permit by the zoning officer, except as permitted below.
Except for trailers offered for sale on trailer sales lots, the parking of a trailer, trailer coach or mobile home outside of a permitted area in any district for forty-nine (49) hours or more, shall be prohibited. Some utility trailers are excluded from this provision.
No new mobile home park, addition or substantial improvement to an existing mobile home park, or location of a mobile home not in a mobile home park in a flood hazard area will be permitted until all criteria of Federal Flood Control Regulations 1910.3(c)9 are met. In location of new mobile homes in now existing mobile home parks in flood hazard areas, Regulation 1910.3(c)10 of Federal Flood Control Regulations* must be complied with.
Camping and recreational equipment. Any owner of camping and recreational equipment, including but not limited to travel trailers, pick-up coaches, motorized homes and boat trailers may park or store such equipment on private residential property subject to the following conditions:
3.21.1.
Such parked or stored camping and recreational equipment shall never be occupied or used for living, sleeping or house-keeping purposes.
3.21.2.
If the camping or recreational equipment is parked or stored outside of a building, it shall be parked or stored, if possible to the rear of the front building line of the lot.
3.21.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 3.21.2 above, camping and recreation equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises while actually being loaded or unloaded.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.22. - Moving of buildings.
Whenever a building is moved from any location to a site within the county, the building shall immediately be made to conform to all provisions of the building, plumbing and electrical codes, if any, and zoning regulations. The owner causing the building to be moved shall secure a building permit from the joint planning commission.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.23. - Non-conforming buildings or structures.
Any lawful use of any dwelling, building, or structure existing at the effective date of this ordinance may be continued, even though such use does not conform to the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of a more restricted classification. Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted use. No non-conforming building or structure shall be extended, or enlarged except when authorized by the planning commission which may permit one enlargement or extension up to twenty-five (25) per cent of the floor area of the structure as it existed at the time of passage of this ordinance.
Whenever the use of a building shall become nonconforming through a change in the zoning ordinance or in the district boundaries, such use may be continued, and if no structural alterations are made, may be changed to another non-conforming use of the same or of a more restricted classification.
A non-conforming use of a building or portion thereof which is hereafter discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months shall not again be used except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which such building is located.
A non-conforming building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or the public enemy to the extent of more than sixty (60) per cent of its reproduction value at the time of damage, shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located. When damage is less than sixty (60) per cent of its reproduction value, a non-conforming building may be repaired or reconstructed, and used as before the time of damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction are completed within one year of such damage.
Non-conforming trailers or mobile homes located on a lot in any district when once removed shall not be relocated on such lot and shall not be replaced with another trailer or mobile home.
(Mo. of 10-4-1977)
Sec. 3.24. - Non-conforming lot.
3.24.1.
Remedies. Where two (2) or more nonconforming lots with continuous frontage are under the same ownership or where a non-conforming lot has a continuous frontage with a larger tract under the same ownership, such lot or lots shall be combined to form one or more building sites meeting the lot requirements of the district in which they are located.
3.24.2.
Dwellings on non-conforming lots. A building permit may be issued for a single-family dwelling on any non-conforming lot excluding sub-standard lots, provided that the remedies set forth in this section cannot be complied with and provided that the regulations of the district in which the lot is located are met.
3.24.3.
Non-conforming uses of land. The nonconforming use of land not involving any principal building or structure existing on the effective date of this ordinance may be continued for a period of not more than three (3) years; provided, however, that no such non-conforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining property. If such non-conforming use of land or any portion thereof is discontinued or changed, any future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
3.24.4.
Dwellings on sub-standard lots. The governing authority may authorize the issuance of a building permit for a single-family dwelling for a sub-standard lot only after it has been determined that remedies as set forth in this section cannot be complied with. The governing authority may also grant such variances on lot and building requirements in cases of hardship, if conditions detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare are not caused.
Sec. 3.25. - Non-conforming use of buildings and structures.
Use of any building or structure not in conformance with these regulations pertaining to uses permitted on the effective date of this ordinance; may not be:
3.25.1.
Changed to another non-conforming use except where it is determined by the governing authority that the design, construction, and character of the building is unsuitable for uses permitted in the district in which such non-conforming use is situated. The governing authority shall hold a public hearing, as set forth in article VII, section 2 of this ordinance in order to determine the question of suitability for uses permitted in the district in which such building is located.
3.25.2.
Re-established after discontinuance for six (6) months except where it is determined by the governing authority that the design, construction, and character of the building is unsuitable for uses permitted in the district in which such non-conforming use is situated. The governing authority shall hold a public hearing, as set forth in article VII, section 2 of this ordinance, in order to determine the question of suitability for uses permitted in the district in which such building is located.
3.25.3.
Extended, enlarged, or expanded except when authorized by the governing authority which may permit one enlargement or extension up to twenty-five (25) per cent of the floor area of the structure as it existed at the time of passage of this ordinance.
Sec. 3.26. - Nursing homes.
Nursing homes shall include convalescent homes, homes for the aged, and such other activities designed to take care of the aged or persons unable to care for themselves without supervision or assistance. Nursing homes shall be permitted only with governing authority approval in any multi-family residential district. Such uses shall comply with all regulations applicable to the district. Such uses shall comply with the off-street parking requirements set forth in this article. In addition, such uses shall meet the minimum requirements as set forth by state or federal agencies regulating such activities and shall, upon application, for either building permit or occupancy certificate, provide certificates indicating approval by such state and federal agencies.
Sec. 3.27. - Obstruction to vision at road intersections.
In order to minimize accidents caused by obstruction to vision at road intersections, the following regulations shall apply in all districts:
3.27.1.
Within the area formed by the rights-of-way lines of intersecting roads and a straight line connecting points on such rights-of-way lines, at a distance of twenty (20) feet form their points of intersection there shall be a clear space with no obstruction to vision between the height of thirty (30) inches and a height of ten (10) feet above the average grade of each road as measured at the centerline thereof.
3.27.2.
Requirements of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit any necessary retaining wall.
3.27.3
Trees shall be permitted in the clear space provided that foliage is cut away within the prescribed height.
Sec. 3.28. - Offensive color, designs, smoke, noise, etc.
Nothing shall be allowed on the premises in any district which would in any way be offensive or obnoxious by reason of the emission of odors, liquids, gas, dust, smoke, vibration, or noise; nor shall anything be placed, constructed, or maintained that will in any way constitute an eye-sore or nuisance to adjacent property owners, residents, or to the community. All uses must satisfactorily comply with the requirements of the state department of natural resources as required by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Sec. 3.29. - Off-street parking and loading.
In all districts off-street parking facilities shall be provided and properly maintained, as set forth in this section for any building which is hereafter erected, enlarged or increased in capacity. Such facilities shall be made available for public use:
3.29.1.
Size and access. Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet exclusive of access drives or aisles and be in unusable shape and condition, except in the case of dwellings and shall have no parking area containing less than three (3) spaces. There shall be adequate ingress and egress to all parking spaces. Where a lot does not abut on public or private alley or easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive leading to the parking or storage areas or loading spaces. Such access drive shall be not less than ten (10) feet in width in the case of a dwelling, and not less than twenty (20) feet in width in all other cases.
Access to off-street parking areas shall be limited to several well-defined locations, and in no case shall there be unrestricted access along the length of a street or alley.
3.29.2.
Number of parking spaces required. The number of off-street parking spaces required is set forth in the following table. Where the use of the premises is not specifically mentioned, requirements for similar uses shall apply.
EXPAND
OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Uses Required Parking Spaces
Automatic laundry 1 for each laundry machine
Automobile sales and service garage 1 for each 400 sq. ft. floor area
Banks/professional offices 1 for each 300 sq. ft. floor area
Bowling alleys 4 for each alley
Churches, temples, or places of worship, funeral homes, schools, public buildings, theaters, auditoriums, areas and places of assembly, private clubs, community buildings, social halls, and lodges 1 for each 4 seats of maximum seating capacity in principal assembly area or 1 for each 17 classroom seats, whichever is greater.
Country clubs, golf clubs, gun clubs, tennis clubs and organizations designed to provide outdoor sporting or recreational activities 1 for each 5 members
Dental offices 2 for each dentist
Driving ranges and golf courses 2 for each tee
Dwellings, single-family 2 for each unit
Food store, supermarket 1 for each 200 sq. ft. floor area
Funeral homes, mortuaries 20 for each parlor
Furniture, appliance stores 1 for each 200 sq. ft. floor area
Hospitals, sanitariums, and nursing homes 1 for each 2 patient beds
Hotels and motels 1 for each guest room plus 1 for each 3 employees
Manufacturing, industrial plant, research laboratory, bottling plants 1 for each 2 employees on largest shift plus 1 for each company vehicle
Manufacturing and industrial concerns with retail business on premises 1 for each 2 employees on largest shift plus 1 for each 150 sq. ft. devoted to sales or service
Medical offices 10 for each doctor
Restaurants, beer parlors, nightclubs 1 for each 2.5 seats plus
1 for each 3 employees
Retail stores and shops 1 for each 300 sq. ft. floor area
Rooming houses, boarding houses, dormitories, fraternities and sororities 1 for each 2 beds
Service station 2 for each pump
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls 1 for each 3.5 seats
Trailer or monument sales or auctions 1 for each 2,500 sq. ft. of lot area
Wholesale and warehouse concerns 1 for each 2 employees, plus 1 for each company vehicle, plus 1 for each 50 sq. ft. of retail sales or service
  3.29.3.
Location of off-street parking spaces.
3.29.3.1.
Such parking space as required in this section shall in no part exist upon and no portion of any vehicle shall over-hang the right-of-way of any public road, street, alley, or walkway. There shall be no off-street parking in the front yards of residential districts except as normally exists in driveways.
3.29.3.2.
The parking spaces for all dwellings shall be located on the same plot as the main building.
3.29.3.3.
Parking spaces for all other uses shall be provided on the same plot with the main building or not more than three hundred (300) feet distance, as measured along the nearest pedestrian walkway provided that such area is under the same ownership as the principal use. The applicant for a building permit who proposes to use an area for off-street parking in order to meet the requirements of this ordinance and in accordance with the provisions of this subsection shall submit evidence of a restrictive covenant running with the land to be used for off-street parking purposes stating that such land shall not be encroached upon, used, sold, leased, or conveyed for any other purpose until such time as the principal building ceases to be required to provide such off-street parking facilities.
3.29.3.4.
Parking requirements for two (2) of more uses of the same or of different types may be provided by the establishment of the required number of spaces for each use in a common parking area provided that all such uses being served by a common parking area are under the same ownership. Accessory uses shall not be required to have additional parking spaces other than those required by the principal use.
3.29.3.5.
Off-street parking areas may be situated in any Residential district abutting any Commercial district or Industrial district to a depth not exceeding one hundred twenty (120) feet and provided that all off-street parking lot improvements as provided in subsection 3.29.4. of this article are complied with.
3.29.4.
Parking lot improvement requirements. Any off-street parking lots serving any use other than dwellings of four (4) units per building or less shall meet the following off-street parking lot improvement requirements:
3.29.4.1.
Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking and areas for more than five (5) vehicles, and off-street loading areas shall be effectively screened on each side which joins or faces residential or industrial premises situated in any Residential district.
3.29.4.2.
Surfacing for all retail sales and services, business services and professional services serving the general public and having access to and abutting a paved street, the off-street parking area shall be provided with a hard surface, all-weather pavement of asphalt or cement and shall be so graded and drained to provide for the adequate run-off and disposal of surface water.
3.29.4.3.
Lighting. Where lighting facilities are provided for the parking area, they shall be designed and installed so as to reflect the light away from any contiguous residentially zoned property.
3.29.5.
Off-street loading requirements.
3.29.5.1.
Every hospital, institution, commercial or industrial building or similar use having a floor area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or more and requiring receipt or distribution by vehicle of materials or merchandise shall have at least one permanent off-street loading space for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof immediately adjacent to the principal building.
3.29.5.2.
Every building which requires the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, shall provide off-street loading berths in accordance with the following tables:
EXPAND
OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Uses Sq. Ft. of Floor Area Required Off-Street Loading Berths
Schools 15,000 or more 1
Hospitals (in addition to space for ambulance) 10,000—300,000 1
For each additional 300,000 or major fraction thereof 1 additional
Undertakers and funeral parlors Regardless of size 1
Hotels, offices and multi-dwellings 10,000 or more 1
Commercial, wholesale manufacturing and storage 10,000—25,000 1
25,000—40,000 2
40,000—60,000 3
60,000—100,000 4
For each additional 50,000 or major fraction thereof 1 additional
  3.29.5.3.
Every off-street loading and unloading space shall have direct access to the public street or alley and shall have the following minimum dimensions: length, thirty (30) feet; width, twelve (12) feet; height, fourteen (14) feet.
Sec. 3.30. - Overhang or extruding projections.
In single-family residential districts, multi-family residential districts and mobile home park districts, every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its lowest point to the sky unobstructed except for the customary projection of sills, belts, courses, cornices, ornamental features, and eaves; provided, however, that none of the above projections shall extend into a required yard more than thirty-six (36) inches. Open or enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways, balconies, chimneys, flues or other projections shall not extend into any required yard except that uncovered steps may project not more than three (3) feet into the required yard.
Sec. 3.31. - Parking of trucks and trailers.
Within any Residential district, no trucks, trailers or wagons in excess of one ton capacity shall be parked for storage purposes, including overnight, on any public right-of-way or on private property except within a completely enclosed garage. Trailers of less than one ton capacity, including pleasure boat trailers, collapsible camping trailers, and cargo trailers, may be parked on private property in any district provided that such trailers are parked only within areas in which the principal building, accessory building, or the parking of vehicles is permitted.
Sec. 3.32. - Performance standards.
These performance standards shall apply to all non-residential uses:
3.32.1.
Smoke, dust and dirt. All emissions of visible smoke, dust, dirt, fly-ash or any particulate matter from any pipes, vents or other openings from any other source shall conform to state and federal standards.
3.32.2.
Fumes, vapors, and gases. All emissions of any fumes, vapors or gases of a noxious, toxic, or corrosive nature which can cause any damage or irritation to health, animals, vegetation, or to any form of property shall conform to state and federal regulations.
3.32.3.
Sewage. There shall be no discharge at any point of liquid or solid waste into any public sewage disposal system which will overload such system or create detrimental effects in the flow and treatment of public sewage. There shall be no discharge of any industrial wastes into any private sewage disposal system, stream, or into the ground of any kind or nature which would contaminate any water supply or otherwise cause emission of dangerous or objectionable elements or conditions. There shall be no accumulation of solid waste conducive to the breeding of rodents or insects.
3.32.4.
Odors. There shall be no emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter in such quantities as to be offensive, obnoxious or unpleasant beyond the property line on which the principal use is located. Any process including the preparation of food which may involve the creation and emission of any such odor shall be provided with a primary and secondary safeguard system so that odor control may be maintained in the event of failure of the primary safeguard system. Any odorous matter shall be kept a minimum of fifteen hundred (1,500) feet from any residence, school, hospital, or church, and any "B" district.
3.32.5.
Noise. The permitted level of noise or sound emission at the property line of the lot on which the principal use is located shall not at any time exceed the average noise level prevailing for the same hour as generated by the American Standards Association.
3.32.6.
Glare. There shall be no direct glare visible from any residential district caused by unshielded floodlights or other sources of high intensity lighting.
Sec. 3.33. - Pending applications for building permits.
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layouts, plans, construction, size, or designated use of any development, building, structure, or part thereof, for which official approval and required permits have been granted, or where no approvals or permits are necessary, where construction has been legally started, before the enactment of this ordinance and completed within a one year period.
Sec. 3.34. - Permitted building area.
The principal building on any lot or parcel of land shall be erected within the area bound by the building lines established by setback or yard requirements. Accessory buildings may be erected within any building line established for the principal building and in required rear yards as may be otherwise provided in these regulations.
Sec. 3.35. - Principal building on a lot.
Except in mobile home parks and the group housing projects as provided in these regulations, only one principal building and its customary accessory building may hereafter be erected on any lot of record. Any dwelling shall be deemed to be the principal building on the lot on which the same is located. An addition to any building shall not be construed as a principal building.
Sec. 3.36. - Retaining walls.
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to prohibit or to prevent the erection of a retaining wall on any property provided that such retaining wall does not adversely affect the natural flow of surface water or create any other adverse effect upon adjacent or adjoining properties. However, any application for a retaining wall shall be subject to approval of the board of commissioners before the issuance of a permit.
Sec. 3.37. - Shopping centers.
Shopping centers are hereby defined as a group of retail stores or shops under single ownership or management with an area of five (5) acres or more and with a minimum depth of three hundred (300) feet established as a shopping entity with common parking facilities, ingress and egress, loading and unloading facilities. Shopping centers shall be permitted in any General or Neighborhood Commercial district and may be developed in accordance with approval by the planning commission. The shopping center shall not be divided into separate lots for each store or use. No permit shall be issued for the construction of shopping centers until the plans and specifications, including the design of ingress and egress roads, parking facilities and other such items as may be found of importance, have been approved by the planning commission. No buildings shall be erected closer than fifty (50) feet to any road right-of-way line. There shall be provided a minimum of one parking space for each two hundred (200) square feet of floor area designed to be used for business or shopping purposes. Such parking area, including maneuvering areas, ingress and egress roads, and driving lanes shall be paved and kept in good repair at all times with a hard, all-weather surface. All points of access shall be to the public road; however, there shall be no public roads or alleys within the shopping center property. All loading and unloading shall be done entirely within the shopping center property. Except as otherwise provided in this section, all uses within the shopping center shall conform with other regulations as set forth in this resolution.
Sec. 3.38. - Purpose of sign regulations.
Liberty County finds that signs are proper and necessary uses of private property, are a means of personal free expression, are a necessary component of a commercial environment, and constitute a legitimate business enterprise. As such, signs are entitled to the protection of the law. In the absence of regulation, however, the number of signs tends to proliferate leading to cluttered and aesthetically blighted roadways. The manner of the erection, location, and maintenance of signs affects the public health, safety, morals, and welfare of the citizens of Liberty County. The following regulations shall apply to all surfaces utilized to advertise a service, product, or business establishment. Separate use signs advertise a service, product, or business establishment not directly related to its location.
3.38.1.
General.
3.38.1.1.
Signable area. The area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the limits of writing, representations, emblems or any figures or similar characters, together with any frame or other material or color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate this sign from the background against which it is placed, excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which this sign is placed; provided, that any open space contained within the outer limits of the display face of a sign, or between any component, panel, strip or fixture of any kind composing the display face shall be included in the computation of the area of the sign whether this open space be enclosed or not by a frame or border. For projecting or double-faced signs only one (1) display face shall be measured in computing the sign area when the sign faces are parallel, or where the interior angle formed by the faces is sixty (60) degrees or less provided that it is a common attached structure. If the two (2) faces of a double-faced sign are of unequal area, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area of the larger face.
3.38.1.2.
Miscellaneous. No signs shall be erected within ten (10) feet of an established road right-of-way line except as otherwise provided herein. All signs fifteen (15) feet in height or more require sign installation drawings to be certified by a structural engineer as being designed to meet/exceed one hundred-mph winds. If the sign is illuminated, it shall be of an enclosed lamp design and require electrical load calculations and a wiring plan in accordance with NFPA 70 and other documents. All signs must conform with O.C.G.A. § 32-6-75(9) (the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Law). A building permit shall be required for all signs larger than thirty-two (32) square feet located within the county. All signs which have external illumination shall have appropriate methods of de-activating illumination during daylight hours. On-premises signs which are capable of multiple messages, changeable messages or displays shall be illuminated by LEDs or similar technology and integrate an automatic dimmer and shall remain fixed for not less than fifteen (15) seconds, and the message transition shall occur in a period not to exceed two (2) seconds. Off-premises billboards and signs (as referred to in sections 3.38.2 and 3.38.3) which are capable of multiple messages, changeable messages or displays shall be illuminated by LEDs or similar technology and integrate an automatic dimmer and shall remain fixed for not less than ten (10) seconds, and the message transition shall occur in a period not to exceed two (2) seconds. Additionally, any multiple or changeable message sign or display shall contain a default design that will freeze the sign or display in one (1) position if a malfunction occurs.
3.38.2.
Billboards (signs) adjacent to the interstate highway system. Signs adjacent to the interstate system of roads shall meet all federal and state requirements necessary to obtain a permit under the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Law.
3.38.2.1.
Uniform in size. All signs erected adjacent to an interstate highway shall be uniform in size. The outside measurements shall equal twelve (12) feet in height and fifty (50) feet in length, with or without trim.
3.38.2.2.
Illumination. All signs which are illuminated shall use base-mounted fluorescent, mercury vapor lights, or metal halide and shall have appropriate methods of deactivating illumination during daylight hours. No other lighting including, but not limited to, neon, running lights, or animation, shall be permitted.
3.38.2.3.
Apron measurement. All signs shall have an apron directly beneath the face of the signs which shall not be used for advertising purposes, and shall only be permitted to display the agency holding the permit and the permit number. The aprons shall be uniform in size, measuring three (3) feet in height and forty-five (45) feet in length.
3.38.2.4.
Height above Interstate. All signs shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in height above the highest point of pavement of the Interstate. According to regulations, signs shall not exceed seventy (70) feet in height above the center of the road. Two (2) signs in the same location, whether back-to-back or in a "V" formation, shall be the same height above the surface of the Interstate.
3.38.2.5.
Extrusions. No extrusion outside the face of the sign, except for the apron, shall be allowed.
3.38.2.6.
Limitation per location. No more than one (1) sign shall face in any one (1) direction per location. This means that there shall be a maximum of two (2) signs per location, which allows for back-to-back signs or signs in a "V" formation, but does not allow two (2) signs facing the same direction.
3.38.24.7.
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than five hundred (500) feet apart, measuring from the two (2) closest points. In addition, no billboard shall be located within five hundred (500) feet in any direction from a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery; provided, however, sign may be placed closer to a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery if visibility is blocked by other buildings or obstructions. No multiple message or changeable message signs may be located within five thousand (5,000) feet of another multiple message sign on the same side of the highway.
3.38.2.8.
Location limitation. A maximum of three (3) sign locations shall be allowed per quadrant at any interchange where spacing requirements can be met.
3.38.2.9.
Marshland limitations. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or an area of designated historic interest.
3.38.2.10.
Structural condition. All signs must be kept in good structural condition and well-painted at all times.
3.38.2.11.
Out of business. Any sign which advertises an activity, business, or product or service no longer produced or conducted shall be removed within six (6) months of the date of the discontinuance of said activity.
3.38.2.12.
Local permits. No person shall construct or maintain any outdoor advertising on an interstate without first obtaining a permit from the Liberty County Building and Licensing Department. This does not eliminate the need for a state permit.
3.38.3.
Billboards adjacent to county designated roads and other routes on the state highway system. Signs adjacent to the county designated road system of arterials and major collectors shall only be allowed on undeveloped parcels that are zoned as B-2 (General Commercial), or I-1 (Industrial) and shall meet the requirements contained in subsections 3.38.3.1 through 3.38.3.9. All signs adjacent to all state maintained routes not on the interstate highway system shall also meet all federal and state requirements necessary to obtain a permit under the Georgia Outdoor Advertising Law, in addition to meeting all requirements for signs on the designated county system of arterials and major collectors. The county shall adopt a map under this ordinance that designates the county and state routes where signs or billboards may be placed.
3.38.3.1.
Size. All signs erected adjacent to a designated route shall not exceed three hundred seventy-eight (378) square feet per sign face, and shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height above the center of the road.
3.38.3.2.
Illumination. All signs which are illuminated shall use base-mounted fluorescent, mercury vapor lights, or metal halide and shall have appropriate methods of deactivating illumination during daylight hours. No other lighting including, but not limited to, neon, running lights, or animation, shall be permitted.
3.38.3.3.
Apron measurement. All signs shall have an apron directly beneath the face of the signs which shall not be used for advertising purposes, and shall only be permitted to display the agency holding the permit and the permit number.
3.38.3.4.
Limitation per location. No more than one (1) sign shall face in any one (1) direction per location. This means that there shall be a maximum of two (2) signs per location, which allows for back-to-back signs or signs in a "V" formation, but does not allow two (2) signs facing the same direction.
3.38.3.5.
Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than one thousand (1,000) feet apart, measuring from the two (2) closest points. Furthermore, no billboard shall be located within five hundred (500) feet in any direction from a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery; provided however sign may be placed closer to a public park, public playground, public recreation area, public forest, scenic area, or cemetery if visibility is blocked by other buildings or obstructions. No multiple message or changeable message signs may be located within five thousand (5,000) feet of another multiple message sign on the same side of the highway.
3.38.3.6.
Marshland limitations. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshland area or an area of designated historic interest.
3.38.3.7.
Structural condition. All signs must be kept in good structural condition and well-painted at all times.
3.38.3.8.
Out of business. Any sign which advertises an activity, business, or product or service no longer produced or conducted shall be removed within six (6) months of the date of the discontinuance of said activity.
3.38.3.9.
Local permits. No person shall construct or maintain any outdoor advertising on any designated route without first obtaining a permit from the Liberty County Building and Licensing Department. This does not eliminate the need for a state permit. All county permits shall be renewed annually.
3.38.4.
No obstruction. No business signs shall be erected so as to obstruct driver visibility along any established road right-of-way.
3.38.5.
Signs in residential districts. No signs shall be erected in or within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any residential district, except as otherwise provided in these regulations. Residential development identification structures located on one (1) or both sides of the major entrances designed to identify residential development. Such signs may be placed outside the right-of-way on common development property or privately owned lots and shall be in the form of a wall or fence with an attached signable area. Said structure shall be made of durable materials including but not limited to: brick, stone, wrought iron, or composite materials, but in no case will a wood sign be permitted. The wall portion of said sign shall not exceed six (6) feet in height. Columns may be incorporated into the signage with a maximum allowable height of eight (8) feet. The maximum signable area permitted shall be sixty-four (64) square feet. Such residential development entrance signs shall be incorporated in the preliminary plat. Subsequently, the final plat shall indicate a sign easement in favor of the development over the lot(s) where the signs are located. Said easement shall also appear within the deed records of the burdened properties and shall exist solely for sign purposes.
3.38.6.
Temporary signs.
3.38.6.1.
A temporary sign such as a real estate sign to be removed within thirty (30) days of the intended use, not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area and not exceeding five (5) feet in height is allowed on properties with road frontage of less than two hundred (200) feet. A sign or signs totaling not more than sixteen (16) square feet in area for each two hundred (200) feet of frontage may be posted to be removed within thirty (30) days of the intended use.
3.38.6.2.
One (1) temporary sign not exceeding sixty-four (64) square feet in area for subdivisions or planned developments.
3.38.6.3.
Construction advertisements. Building contractors' and professional persons' temporary advertisements on or adjacent to buildings under construction, limited to a total area for all such signs of one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
3.38.7.
Business or industrial signs. Business or industrial signs are permitted in business or industrial zones under the following conditions:
3.38.7.1.
Number of signs. Permitted signs may include parallel, projecting and freestanding signs. Not more than two (2) parallel or projecting signs may be allowed for each business or industrial establishment. A freestanding sign may be either a stanchion or a monument sign.
3.38.7.2.
Size. The maximum size of signs, per sign face, shall be as follows, not including billboards as defined in subsections 3.38.2 and 3.38.3:
EXPAND
B-1 Zoning District and O-I District - parallel and projecting signs Any parallel or projecting sign or any combination or these signs on a building surface cannot exceed five (5) percent of the building's front surface and five (5) percent of any other building surface that faces another street with a secondary street frontage of at least one hundred (100) feet.
B-1 Zoning District and O-I District - freestanding signs One (1) freestanding sign is allowed per parcel, and a freestanding stanchion or pylon sign cannot exceed twenty (20) feet in height with a total signable area of thirty-two (32) square feet per business establishment, but in no case shall the total signable area exceed one hundred (100) square feet. A monument sign cannot exceed five (5) feet in height with a total signable area of forty (40) square feet.
B-2 Zoning District - parallel and projecting signs Any parallel or projecting sign or any combination of these signs on a building surface cannot exceed ten (10) percent of the building's front surface and ten (10) percent of any other building surface that faces another street with a secondary street frontage of at least one hundred (100) feet.
B-2 Zoning District - freestanding signs One (1) freestanding sign is allowed for each street on which the properties front. The parcel or properties must have a frontage of at least one hundred (100) feet on any secondary street or streets to qualify for an additional freestanding sign. A freestanding stanchion or pylon sign cannot exceed twenty (20) feet in height. The maximum total signable area on any stanchion sign or combination of stanchion signs cannot exceed one hundred (100) square feet per business establishment, but in no case shall the total signable area of all stanchion signs exceed two hundred (200) square feet. A monument sign cannot exceed eight (8) feet in height with a total signable area of sixty-four (64) square feet.
Industrial Zoning District Sixty-four (64) square feet for any freestanding signs, other than industrial parks under a master plan of development. In any master planned industrial development, the types and sizes of all signs shall be approved by the planning commission and the governing authority.
  3.38.7.3.
Height.
3.38.7.3.1.
Maximum height. No sign shall extend more than twenty (20) feet above the center of the road. However, not including interstate-oriented signs.
3.38.7.3.2.
Clearance. No hanging, suspended or projecting sign shall have a vertical clearance of less than fourteen (14) feet over any vehicular public way, nor less than nine (9) feet over any pedestrian public way. Public ways used in this subsection include privately owned sidewalks or drives, customarily used by the public.
3.38.7.3.3.
Projections. No sign shall project from the wall of a building more than six (6) feet.
3.38.7.4.
Lighting. If externally illuminated, the light shall be confined to the surface of the sign, which shall be so located and arranged as to avoid glare or reflection onto any portion of any adjacent highway or onto the path of oncoming vehicles or into any adjacent premises. No flashing or moving signs, shall be permitted. If internally illuminated, the illumination in which the light source is concealed or contained with the structure itself and which becomes visible in darkness by shining through a translucent surface shall not exceed sixteen (16) footcandles of incident light measured at a distance of ten (10) feet from such structure.
3.38.8.
Churches and conditional uses. Churches located on a single parcel in any zoning district shall be allowed parallel or projecting signs or any combination of these signs on a building surface that cannot exceed five (5) percent of the building's front surface. They are also allowed a monument sign that cannot exceed five (15) feet in height with a total signable area of sixty-four (64) square feet. Signs for conditional uses shall be considered with the request for the conditional use.
3.38.9.
Existing signs. A nonconforming sign is any sign existing on the effective date of this ordinance which does not conform to the standards of this ordinance, but which was legal at the time it was erected. Nonconforming signs shall be permitted until one (1) of the following conditions occurs: (1) the sign is abandoned; or (2) the permittee or property owner fails to adequately maintain the sign. If the nonconforming sign is modified in size, height or location, the sign must conform to all of the requirements of this ordinance. Minor repairs and maintenance are exempted. Signs damaged by fire, act of God, or by other cause demonstrated by the owner of the sign by clear and convincing evidence to be outside the owner's control may be restored to their original nonconforming condition.
3.38.10.
Appeal procedure. An individual whose permit application has been denied or whose permit has been revoked may file an appeal with the Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission within fourteen (14) calendar days. The Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission will make a recommendation to the governing authority. Appeal request shall state the reason(s) and/or circumstance(s) in writing on which it is based.
(Mo. of 11-2-1993; Ord. No. 2008-004, § I, 12-2-2008)
Sec. 3.39. - Rear dwelling and easements required therewith.
In all districts except the Industrial districts, no building in the rear of a principal building on the same lot shall be used for residential purposes unless it conforms to the open space requirements of this ordinance. For the purpose of determining the front yard in such case, the rear line of the required rear yard for the principal building in front shall be considered the front lot line for the building in the rear. In addition, there must be provided for any such rear dwelling, an unoccupied and unobstructed access way not less than ten (10) feet wide to a road, and there shall not be more than one dwelling, housing not more than two (2) families for each such easement, except that a common easement of access at least forty (40) feet wide may be provided for two (2) or more dwellings, housing any number of families.
Sec. 3.40. - Road frontage required.
No lot shall contain any dwelling unless it abuts at least twenty (20) feet on a public street, or unless it conforms to the easement of access required in this article.
Sec. 3.41. - Traffic visibility across corner lots.
On any corner lot in any district, no fence, structure or planting, more than thirty (30) inches high measured from the center of the road, shall be erected or maintained within twenty (20) feet of the "corner" so as not to interfere with traffic visibility across the corner.
Sec. 3.42. - Certain building and land use excepted.
3.42.1.
Agricultural uses. Except for compliance with minimum yard requirements, visibility across corner lots, and for the commercial raising of fur-bearing animals, or hog farms, nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit the use of any land for agricultural purposes as defined herein, or the construction or use of buildings or structures incident to the use for agricultural purposes of the land on which such buildings or structures are located, in any Agricultural district.
3.42.2.
Public or semi-public uses. Nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit the erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of essential services, by public utilities or county, city, or other governmental agencies and no zoning certificate shall be required for any such structure; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to buildings, towers, or storage yards of such public utilities or governmental agencies except when conforming to the procedures specified by state law.
State Law reference— Zoning proposal review procedures law, O.C.G.A. § 36-67-1 et seq.
Sec. 3.43. - Swimming pools, private, community or club.
3.43.1.
Private swimming pools. A private swimming pool in the ground or permanent installations above the ground, but not including farm ponds, as regulated herein, shall be any pool, lake or open tank not located within a completely enclosed building and containing or normally capable of containing water to a depth at any point greater than one and one-half (1½) feet. No such swimming pool shall be allowed in a "B-1," "A-1," "AR-1," or any "R" district, except as an accessory use and unless it complies with the following conditions and requirements.
3.43.2.
The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of the occupants of the principal use of the property on which it is located, and their guests, and no fee shall be charged.
3.43.3.
It may not be located, including any walks or paved areas or accessory structures adjacent thereto, closer than ten (10) feet to any property line of the property on which it is located.
3.43.4.
The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located, shall be so walled or substantially fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or from adjacent properties, and said fence or wall to be not less than four (4) feet above ground level and maintained in good condition and grounded for electricity. Pools shall conform to the department of health standards.
Existing pools shall conform in ninety (90) days to these requirements. Inspection by the zoning officer to ascertain conformance with the law shall be made before use of the pool by the owner or any friend or relative of the owner or paid member will be allowed. The inspection shall be made within one week of completion of all construction.
3.43.5.
Community or club swimming pools. A community or club swimming pool shall be any pool constructed by an association of property owners, or by a private club solely for use and enjoyment by members of the association or club and their families and guests of members. Community and club swimming pools shall comply with the following conditions and requirements:
3.43.5.1.
The pool and accessory structures thereto, including the areas used by the bathers, shall not be closer than ten (10) feet to any property line of the property on which it is located.
3.43.5.2.
The swimming pool and all of the area used by the bathers shall be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or adjacent properties. The said fence or wall shall not be less than four (4) feet in height and maintained in good condition and grounded for electricity. The area surrounding the enclosure except of the parking spaces, shall be suitably landscaped with grass, hardy shrubs and trees and maintained in good condition.
(Mo. of 11-2-1982)
Sec. 3.44. - Time limitation.
No zoning permit for construction, erection, or alteration of any building or structure or part thereof, or for signs or outdoor advertisements, or part thereof, shall be valid for more than one year unless work at the site has commenced within such period.
Sec. 3.45. - Notice of starting work.
The building and zoning inspector shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours notice by owner or applicant prior to commencement of work at the site under zoning permits.
Sec. 3.46. - Adult entertainment or services.
No premises shall be occupied for the purpose of providing adult entertainment or services, including but not limited to adult book stores, adult motion picture theaters, massage parlors, palm readers, tattoo parlors, health clubs, and health spas, in any district except B-2, General Commercial, and then only upon approval of the governing authority after a public hearing. No such activity shall be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet (measured in direct line) of any area zoned residential and no such activity shall be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any other activity which provides the same type entertainment.
(Mo. of 6-30-1986)
Sec. 3.47. - Bed and breakfast inn.
Bed and breakfast inns are authorized as a conditional use and shall include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Host or hostess shall live in the inn.
(2)
Each bedroom for rent shall have a private bath.
(3)
A minimum of one (1) parking space for each bedroom for rent plus two (2) shall be provided in parking area, and entrance thereto shall be paved.
(Mo. of 4-7-1995)
Sec. 3.48. - Placement of manufactured homes.
3.48.1.
Definitions. As used in this section, the following words shall have the meanings as set forth below unless otherwise required by context.
(a)
Manufactured home, Class A, shall mean a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home and Standards Act 42 USC 5401-5445 (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
(i)
The manufactured home shall have a minimum width in excess of twenty (20) feet.
(ii)
The manufactured home shall have a pitched roof and be finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in conventional residential construction, including, but not limited to, wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass, slate or such other similar material comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to shingles commonly used in conventional residential construction, as determined by the zoning administrator.
(iii)
The exterior siding shall consist of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, stucco, aluminum (vinyl-covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) or such other similar material comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction, as determined by the zoning administrator.
(iv)
The manufactured home shall be placed on a durable foundation and be anchored in a manner that complies with the latest published edition of the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (or its successor). Furthermore, a curtain wall, unpierced except for required ventilation and access and constructed of masonry, shall be installed so that it encloses the area located under the home to the ground level. Such a wall shall be finished with brick, stucco, or such other similar material as may be approved by the zoning administrator.
(v)
The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and all other towing apparatus shall be removed from the manufactured home after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
(vi)
Landings at each outside doorway of the requisite composition and size as per section 312.1 of the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (or its successor), with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference herein as part of this requirement.
(vii)
All manufactured homes must be otherwise installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(b)
Manufactured home, Class B, shall mean a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act 42 USC 5401-5445 (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976), and meeting the following development standards:
(i)
The manufactured home shall be finished with a type of roofing that is commonly used in conventional residential construction, including, but not limited to, wood shakes, asphalt composition shingles, fiberglass, slate or such other similar material comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to roofing commonly used in conventional residential construction (to include any original roofing made a part of the manufactured home, but in no case exceeding the reflectively of gloss white paint), as determined by the zoning administrator.
(ii)
The exterior siding shall consist of wood, hardboard, vinyl, brick, masonry, stucco, aluminum (vinyl covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white paint) or such other similar material comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in conventional residential construction, as determined by the zoning administrator.
(iii)
The manufactured home shall be placed on a durable foundation and be anchored in a manner that complies with the latest published edition of the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (or its successor). Furthermore, skirting shall be installed, and maintained in good repair, with appropriate ventilation, so as to enclose the area located under the home to the ground level. Such skirting shall be of a material commonly used in conventional residential construction as approved by the zoning administrator.
(iv)
The tongue, transporting lights, and all other towing apparatus shall be removed from the manufactured home after placement on the lot and before occupancy to the extent practicable. In the event it is not practicable to remove such transportation and towing apparatus, the same shall be skirted in their entirety as provided in subparagraph 1(b)(iii) hereinabove; provided, however, that the tongue only may remain exposed.
(v)
Landings at each outside doorway of the requisite composition and size as per section 312.1 of the CABO One-and Two-Family Dwelling Code (or its successor), with said provisions being expressly incorporated by reference herein as part of this requirement.
(vi)
All manufactured homes must be otherwise installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(c)
Manufactured home, Class C, shall mean a dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a label certifying it is constructed in compliance with Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act 42 USC 5401-5445 (the HUD Code, which became effective on June 15, 1976), but which does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the unit as a Class A or Class B manufactured home. All Class C manufactured homes must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(d)
Manufactured home, Class D, shall mean a manufactured home (to include mobile homes) that does not meet the definitional criteria of a Class A, Class B or Class C manufactured home (i.e., not constructed to the HUD code). All Class D manufactured homes permitted by this section must be installed in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 8-2-160 et seq.
(e)
Permitted residential districts shall mean the following zoning districts as defined by section 4.1 of the zoning ordinance of Liberty County, Georgia: A-1, AR-1, R-2, R-2A, and R-4 districts.
3.48.2.
Permitted location of manufactured homes, Class A. Manufactured homes qualifying as Class A Manufactured Homes as defined herein shall be allowed only in the permitted residential districts within the unincorporated areas of the county and shall be regulated uniformly with other housing constructed on site, subject to the restrictions and limitations imposed herein. Approval to place the Class A Manufactured Home within such permitted residential districts shall be granted by the zoning administrator upon application and determination that the manufactured home meets the requirements of this section and all other applicable state and local laws. Manufactured homes qualifying as Class B, Class C or Class D Manufactured Homes shall be located only in those areas as expressly authorized by this section and are not permitted in R-2 zoning districts.
3.48.3.
Permitted location of manufactured homes, Class B. Manufactured homes qualifying as Class B Manufactured Homes as defined herein shall be allowed only within R-2A, A-1, and AR-1 zoning districts, as well duly licensed and approved parks for manufactured and mobile homes located within R-4 Mobile Home Park Residential Districts. Approval to place the Class B Manufactured Home within such R-2A, A-1 and AR-1 zoning districts shall be granted by the zoning administrator upon application and determination that the manufactured home meets the requirements of this section and all other applicable state and local laws.
3.48.4.
Permitted location of manufactured homes, Class C. Manufactured homes qualifying as Class C Manufactured Homes shall not be permitted within the unincorporated areas of the county, except in duly licensed and approved parks for manufactured and mobile homes located within R-4 Mobile Home Park Residential Districts.
3.48.5.
Permitted location of manufactured homes, Class D. Manufactured homes qualifying as Class D Manufactured Homes shall not be introduced or otherwise permitted within the unincorporated areas of the County; provided, however, that Class D Manufactured Homes qualifying as a legal nonconforming use pursuant to this section may be relocated in duly licensed and approved parks for manufactured and mobile homes located within R-4 Mobile Home Park Residential Districts. Furthermore, Class D Manufactured Homes qualifying as a legal nonconforming use pursuant to this section and which otherwise satisfy the requirements of a Class B Manufactured Home set forth in subparagraphs 1(b)(i) through (vi) may also be relocated in R-2A, A-1, and AR-1 zoning districts, provided approval to place said Class D Manufactured Home within such R-2A, A-1, and AR-1 zoning districts shall be granted by the zoning administrator upon application and determination that the manufactured home meets the requirements of this section and all other applicable state and local laws.
3.48.6.
Emergency placement. Any person desiring to place a manufactured home not complying with the standards herein provided within the unincorporated areas of the county may make application for same to the zoning administrator, who shall refer said application to the governing authority of the county for determination on the following basis: if in the opinion of the governing authority, it should become necessary as a temporary emergency or hardship or for security or protection, such permit may be granted on a limited basis for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of permit. If before the expiration date of the permit, the emergency or other reasons for the home shall no longer exist, then said permit shall be automatically cancelled and said structure removed by the owner. If said home is not removed on or before the expiration date of the permit, it may be removed by the county at the owner's expense. such permit, if granted, shall be a privilege and not a right and shall be issued strictly at the determination of the governing body of the county who shall prescribe the terms, location, conditions and duration of the permit, and their decision shall be final.
3.48.7.
Application and approval for placement of manufactured home. Person(s) proposing to locate a manufactured home within the unincorporated areas of the county for the first time or which are proposing to relocate a manufactured home within said county must make application to the zoning administrator of Liberty County as follows:
(a)
Application. Applications for placement of manufactured homes shall be made on a form or forms developed for that purpose and shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for review and approval in accordance with this section. Such application shall include all information necessary to make a determination as to conformity with the provisions of this section as applicable to each such manufactured home, including photographs or renderings of the front and side of the manufactured home, exterior finish, and other information necessary to make a determination required by this section.
(b)
Review of application. Approval or denial of the application shall be within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the completed application and all required supporting materials. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the approval, conditional approval or denial of the application within five (5) business days after such decision is made. Conditional approval shall require that the conditions and reasons therefore be stated in writing and be agreed to by the applicant; such conditions shall be binding upon the applicant. In the case of disapproval, the reasons therefore shall be stated in writing.
(c)
Appeal. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the zoning administrator regarding the approval, conditional approval or denial of the placement of a manufactured home may appeal from such decision to the governing authority of the county by filing with the county administrator a petition in writing setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly wherein the decision appealed from is contrary to the provisions of this section or the laws of this state. Such appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) calendar days after the date on which notification of the decision is received. The governing authority of the county shall fix the date and time certain for the hearing of the appeal and shall give notice thereof to the appealing party. The governing authority of the county shall decide the appeal within ten (10) working days after the date and time of the hearing. In exercising its powers, the governing authority may reverse or affirm the decision appealed, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or determination appealed from and to that end shall have all the powers of the official from whom the appeal was taken. Any decision from the governing authority of the county may be appealed by filing a writ of certiorari with the superior court of this county within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the decision on appeal has been rendered in writing. The decision made by the governing body shall be placed in writing and the factual basis for the decision shall be set forth in the written decision.
3.48.8.
Penalty. Any person who locates a manufactured home within the unincorporated areas of the county without first having obtained approval to do so as set forth herein or who otherwise violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every such offense, or imprisonment of not more than sixty (60) days, or both.
3.48.9.
Enforcement. The magistrate's court of Liberty County shall have jurisdiction over violations of this section and all procedures for enforcement hereof shall be as provided in article 4, chapter 10, title 15, Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.]. Complaints of violations of any provision contained herein shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the zoning administrator of Liberty County or the chief magistrate of Liberty County and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this section will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney as determined by the zoning administrator of Liberty County. Service of citation shall be performed by the constable of the magistrate's court of Liberty County, Georgia. Citations shall meet all the official requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended. It is provided, however, that the county retains any and all civil remedies, including the right of civil injunction for the prevention of said violations and for the recovery of money damages therefor.
3.48.10.
Nonconforming individual manufactured homes. Manufactured homes in place on December 2, 1997, and otherwise authorized by the governing authority of Liberty County, are declared to be legal nonconforming uses at their current location; provided, however, that such homes may not be altered, relocated, or expanded in any way unless the alteration, relocation or expansion results in conformance with this section. When a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned, for whatever reason, for six (6) consecutive months or eighteen (18) months during any two-year period, the use shall be considered abandoned, shall not be reestablished, and the structure and/or land used in accordance with this section.
3.48.11.
Nonconforming R-2 lots preserved. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, any lot within an R-2 zoning district whereupon a legal nonconforming manufactured home is located as of September 1, 1998, is declared to be a legal nonconforming lot, and any placement of a manufactured home thereon after such date shall be permitted, provided, however, that such qualifying manufactured home satisfies the requirements of a Class B Manufactured Home as defined herein and otherwise meets all other applicable state and local laws. Should ownership of any such legal nonconforming lot change at any time, the nonconforming lot shall thereafter be subject to the provisions of this section; provided that the legal nonconforming manufactured home located thereon at such time shall continue to qualify as a legal nonconforming manufactured home pursuant to subsection 3.47.10. Notwithstanding the foregoing, once a conforming manufactured home is located or otherwise established on any legal nonconforming lot, such lot shall thereafter be subject to the provisions of this section.
3.48.12.
Restrictive covenants. No provisions of this section shall preempt or preclude any protective or restrictive covenants which may be attached to any property within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. No. 1998-005, § 1, 9-1-1998)
Editor's note— Section II of Ord. No. 1998-005, adopted Sept. 1, 1998, repealed the ordinance adopted Dec. 2, 1997, from which this section derived, and section I enacted similar provisions to read as herein set out. This section had been redesignated from § 3.47 to § 3.48, with the permission of the county, to avoid duplicate section numbers.
