Chapter 109 - GROUNDWATER

Sec. 109-1. - Title.
This chapter will be known as the "City of Walthourville Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 01-01-01, ยง 8.5-1, 1-23-2001)
Sec. 109-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Drastic means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/2-87-035. (Note: the drastic methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluation of pollution susceptibility.)
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundments, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area. Recharge areas are determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on the Hydrologic Atlas 20, Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia, prepared by the department of natural resources.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources, using the drastic methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land area of the state into areas having high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish and aquifer.
Significant recharge areas means those areas mapped by the department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology, soil type and thickness, slope, density, or lithologic contacts, geologic structure, the presence of darts, and potentionmetric services.
(Ord. No. 01-01-01, ยง 8.5-2, 1-23-2001)
Sec. 109-3. - Criteria in significant recharge areas.
The following criteria shall apply in significant recharge areas as identified in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within the incorporated area of the city:
(1)
New above-ground chemical of petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt from this requirement, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(2)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within:
a.
A high-pollution susceptibility area;
b.
A medium-pollution susceptibility area and exceed 15 acre-feet in size; or
c.
A low-pollution susceptibility area and exceed 50 acre-feet in size.
As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one-foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 by 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the natural resource conservation service.
(3)
New homes served by a septic and drain field system shall be on lots having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-1 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-1). The minimums set forth in Table MT-1 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A-F) of the DHR Manual. (Table attached)
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a high-pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a medium-pollution susceptibility area;
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-1 if they are within a low-pollution susceptibility area.
Any lot of record on the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of this subsection, and the minimum lot size requirements of the city zoning regulations shall be resolved in favor of the provision that establishes the larger minimum lot size.
(4)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots of spaces having minimum size limitations as follows, based on application of Table MT-2 of the DHR Manual (hereinafter DHR Table MT-2). The minimums set forth in Table MT-2 may be increased further based on consideration of other factors (set forth in sections A-F) of the DHR Manual. (MT-2 Table attached)
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a high-pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a medium-pollution susceptibility area;
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size calculated based on application of DHR Table MT-2 if they are within a low-pollution susceptibility area;
Any lot of record on the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of this subsection. Any conflict between the minimum lot size requirements of this subsection and the minimum lot size requirements of the city zoning regulations shall be resolved in favor of the provision that establishes the larger minimum lot size.
(5)
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank, unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installations as meeting the requirements of the Georgia Department of Human Resources Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems (hereinafter DHR manual) and this chapter.
(6)
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation And Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day shall perform operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local fire prevention code requirements.
(7)
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high-pollution susceptibility.
(Ord. No. 01-01-01, ยง 8.5-3, 1-23-2001)
Sec. 109-4. - Permit requirements.
The permitting criteria in chapter 103 shall apply insignificant recharge areas as identified in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within the incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. No. 01-01-01, ยง 8.5-4, 1-23-2001)
