DIVISION 1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 82-42. - Purpose and policy.
This article sets forth uniform requirements for users of the sewage works for Forsyth County and enables the county to comply with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United States Code 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 Code of Federal Regulations Part 403 et seq.). The objectives of this article are:
(1)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the sewage works that will interfere with its operation, and to prevent the introduction into the POTW of any pollutant or hazardous substance which causes personal injury or property damage or, other than in compliance with all local requirements or permits, which causes such treatment works to violate any effluent limitation or condition in any permit issued to the treatment works;
(2)
To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the sewage works that will pass through the sewage works inadequately treated into receiving waters or otherwise be incompatible with the sewage works;
(3)
To protect human health, safety and the environment, including protection of sewage works personnel who may be affected by wastewater in the course of their employment and the general public;
(4)
To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and biosolids from the sewage works;
(5)
To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of operation, maintenance, and improvement of the sewage works; and
(6)
To enable Forsyth County to comply with its National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit conditions, re-use permit conditions, biosolids use and disposal requirements, and any other applicable federal or state laws.
This article shall apply to all users of the sewage works within the jurisdictional boundary of Forsyth County, except for those areas within the City of Cumming sewer service area. The ordinance authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge permits and general permits, provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities, establishes administrative review procedures, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-43. - Administration.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Forsyth County Water and Sewer Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the director may be delegated to other county personnel.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
