ARTICLE V. - INSTALLATION OF UTILITIES

Sec. 82-141. - Notice of intention to utilize right-of-way.
Any utility seeking to condemn or utilize an easement over or on a portion of the public right-of-way which is under the supervision and control of the county, in order to run wires, pipes, cables, any maintenance activity, or any other uses necessary, shall first notify the county department of engineering or its designated agent of the utility's intention to so condemn or utilize. Utilization shall mean any manner of use of the right-of-way, including, but not limited to, cutting of the pavement or boring under the pavement. Such notification shall include the location and description of the right-of-way to be condemned or utilized and the purpose of the condemnation or utilization. In the event of emergency repair service involving utilization of the paved portion of the right-of-way during hours other than normal office hours, the utility shall notify the department of engineering by the next business day.
(Ord. No. 76, § 1, 3-24-1997)
Sec. 82-142. - Promulgation of standards and specifications.
The county department of engineering is hereby authorized to prepare standard specifications regulating the installation of pipes, wires, poles, lines, etc., on or over a public right-of-way. These specifications shall be known as the utility accommodation standards, policies and procedures manual and are designed to protect and safeguard the welfare of the county and its citizens. A copy of the specifications shall be available for public view during normal business hours at the department of engineering.
(Ord. No. 76, § 2, 3-24-1997)
Sec. 82-143. - Approval of installation.
As to new installation, no utility shall install any lines, wires, pipes or poles, or otherwise utilize a public right-of-way until after obtaining prior written approval from the county department of engineering, respecting the proposed location of such utilities in accordance with these regulations. The department of engineering shall determine if the installed location and placement of any utility within, along or upon a county right-of-way meets the requirements of this article and the specifications of the county utility manual. The department of engineering shall then issue written approval or disapproval to the utility regarding the installation. Any installation made by any utility in a location other than that specified in this article or the county standards, or the approved permit, shall be removed and reinstalled in the proper location entirely at the expense of the utility. Failure to make proper corrections required by the county department of engineering will result in the withholding of any further installation permits until all corrections have been made and approved.
(Ord. No. 76, § 3, 3-24-1997)
Sec. 82-144. - Variances.
The county department of engineering is authorized to approve a variance from the requirements of the utility accommodation standards, policies and procedures manual, and/or county standards, if such variance absolutely necessary under the conditions then and there existing and such variance will not create a public hazard or otherwise be detrimental to the best interest of the county and its citizens.
(Ord. No. 76, § 4, 3-24-1997)
Sec. 82-145. - Liability for costs and expenses.
Any costs or expenses incurred by the county in repairing or replacing any structures, etc., which are not left in original condition by a utility company shall be chargeable to the utility company, including reasonable attorney's fees incurred in the collection of such costs or expenses.
(Ord. No. 76, § 5, 3-24-1997)
Secs. 82-146—82-170. - Reserved.
