APPENDIX B - CAMDEN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY, INC. FRANCHISE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Camden Telephone and Telegraph Company, Inc. franchise, as adopted by the mayor and council on October 6, 1955. Amendments to the franchise are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original franchise agreement. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Grant of franchise.
That Camden Telephone and Telegraph Company, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, its successors and assigns, is hereby granted a franchise to:
1.
Erect, construct, operate and maintain a telephone system, consisting of, without limitations, exchange, toll and trunk lines, conduits, cables, poles, voice radio circuits and exchanges, with all fixtures and appurtenances necessary or advisable for the proper operation and maintenance of said system within the limits of the city for the purpose of supplying telephone service for public and private use therein and to provide telephone service through and beyond the city;
2.
To use the streets alleys and other public places of the city, or the space below such streets, alleys or public places, for such purposes;
3.
To make all necessary excavations in the public streets, alleys or other public places and thoroughfares and to cut and trim all trees and shrubbery insofar as may be necessary to keep them clear of the poles and wires of the telephone system.
This franchise is granted on the following terms:
FIRST: The telephone system shall be constructed, operated and maintained in a proper workmanlike manner so as to afford all reasonable safeguards to the public.
SECOND: All poles and wires, forming part of said telephone system, shall be so erected, operated and maintained so as not to interfere with traffic on the traveled portions of the streets or alleys; and the corporation, after the construction or reconstruction of said telephone system or any part thereof, shall restore to their original condition the streets or alleys on which said poles or wires have been erected, constructed, operated or maintained insofar as this is practicable.
THIRD: The corporation will comply with all reasonable rules and regulations of the city and with all ordinances now in effect or which may hereinafter be passed insofar as they do not conflict with the terms or purposes of the franchise herein granted.
(Ord. of 10-6-55, § 1)
Sec. 2. - Exclusive use of facilities.
The city hereby obligates that it will not grant any other person, corporation or partnership any right to obstruct any of the streets or public places of said city with signs, canopies, or similar obstructions that would interfere with the free, perfect and uninterrupted right to the use and enjoyment and the exercise of the rights herein conferred upon said corporation during the term of this instrument.
(Ord. of 10-6-55, § 2)
Sec. 3. - Effective date.
This franchise shall take effect from and after the time of passage and shall continue for a period of 35 years from said date.
(Ord. of 10-6-55, § 3)
