APPENDIX A - ATLANTA GAS LIGHT COMPANY FRANCHISE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Section 1 of an ordinance adopted Aug. 10, 1998, deleted former app. A in its entirety and added provisions as a new app. A to read as herein set out. Former app. A consisted of the Atlanta Gas Light Company franchise, adopted Feb. 24, 1986.
Amendments to the current franchise are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original franchise agreement. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, citation to state statutes, and expression of numbers in text has been used to conform to the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Power to grant franchises or make contracts with public utilities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(7); limitation on action expanding the power of regulation over any business activity regulated by the Public Service Commission, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.

Sec. 1. - Grant of franchise.
The right is hereby granted to the Atlanta Gas Light Company, its successors and assigns, to lay, construct, extend, maintain, renew, replace, and repair gas pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances, and all appurtenances and appendages under, along, through, and across any streets, avenues, roads, public highway, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places in the city, and to use and occupy the said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places for the purpose of therein laying, constructing, extending, maintaining, renewing, replacing and repairing mains, pipes, valves, manholes, service boxes, posts, lamps, structures, appliances, and all appurtenances and appendages thereto, used and useful for the manufacture, transmission, distribution, and sale of gas within and through the present or future territorial limits of the city, such right, when exercised as herein provided, to continue until midnight on February 24, 2016.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
(a)
"Base year" means the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998.
(b)
"Base year franchise fee factor" means the total franchise fees paid during the base year divided by the design day capacity as recorded by the company on the last day of the base year.
(c)
"Design day capacity" means the sum of the individual capacity in dekatherms (Dt) attributable to all firm customers located within the city limits of the city, as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
(d)
"Firm customers" means all residential and business customers who purchase gas service that ordinarily is not subject to interruption or curtailment.
(e)
"Fiscal year" means the 12 months ending September 30, of each year.
(f)
"Inflation index" means the percentage in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor index, for the period from September 30, 1997, to the beginning of the then current fiscal year. The percentage shall be reduced by any productivity factor adjustment for the same time period determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission for the company.
Sec. 3. - Franchise fee.
The total dollar amount of franchise fees paid by the company to the city shall be calculated as follows:
The current fiscal year total franchise fee shall equal the product of the design day capacity and the current franchise fee factor. The current franchise fee factor shall be equal to the product of the base year franchise fee factor and one plus the inflation index expressed as a decimal to three significant digits.
The following formula quantifies the payment:
FF c = FFF by × (1 + (CPI-PFA)) × DDC c
where
FF c = total franchise fees due the city for the current fiscal year.
FFF by = the base year franchise fee factor.
CPI-PFA = the Inflation Index based on the cumulative change in the Consumer Price Index less the productivity factor adjustment determined by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
DDC c = the design day capacity as of the last day of the previous fiscal year.
FFF by = FF by / DDC by
where
FF by = the total franchise fees paid in the base year
and
DDC by = the design day capacity of the base year.
Sec. 4. - Responsibility for payment of franchise fee.
The company as the holder of the franchise privilege hereunder is responsible for the payment of all franchise fees payable hereunder, and shall file such reports and returns as required by the franchise ordinance as modified by this amendment. In addition, the company shall report annually the names of all gas marketers for which company is transporting natural gas on the distribution system within the city.
The franchise fee payments required hereunder shall be in lieu of any franchise fee license fee, occupation tax, or other payment for use of the rights of way by the company for the provision of gas service, but shall not prohibit imposition of a license fee or an occupation tax on gas marketers.
Sec. 5. - Quarterly payments.
Effective for the fiscal year 1999, and for each fiscal year thereafter during the term of the franchise ordinance, the company shall remit to the city quarterly franchise fee installments. The installments shall equal to one-fourth of the total annual franchise fee calculated in accordance with this ordinance.
The quarterly payment is due and payable on or before the 30th day following the last day of each calendar quarter.
Sec. 6. - Annual return.
The company shall file a return with its first quarterly installment in each fiscal year showing the details of the calculation of the annual franchise fee.
Sec. 7. - Delay of inflation adjustment.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this ordinance, any inflation adjustments shall be made to the franchise fee only when the company changes its rates.
Sec. 8. - Scope of ordinance.
All rights herein granted and authorized shall be subject to and governed only by this ordinance; provided, however, that the city expressly reserves unto itself all of its police power to adopt general ordinances necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the general public in relation to the rights hereby granted not inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance.
Sec. 9. - Excavations; restoration, interference with traffic.
Atlanta Gas Light Company, grantee upon making an opening upon any of the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places in the city, for the purpose of laying, repairing, or maintaining has mains, shall use due care and caution to prevent injury to persons, and shall replace and restore all public ways to their former condition as nearly as practicable, and within a reasonable time, and shall not unnecessarily obstruct or impede traffic upon the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other places of said city.
Sec. 10. - Indemnity of city.
Atlanta Gas Light Company shall save and keep harmless the said city from any and all liability by reason of damage or injury to any person or persons whomsoever, on account of negligence of the grantee in the installation, maintenance, and repair of its mains and pipelines along said streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places in the city provided the grantee shall have been notified in writing of any claim against the city on account thereof and shall have been given ample opportunity to defend the same.
