CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF ST. MARYS, GEORGIA
____________
Adopted: December 9, 1996
Effective: December 31, 1996
____________
Published in 1996 by Order of the Mayor and Council
____________
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF
ST. MARYS, GEORGIA
AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Jerry R. Brandon
Mayor
____________
Clifford Guyer
Kenneth Hase
Kyle Lewis
Cynthia Nelms
Tilden Norris
Willie Walker, Jr.
City Council
____________
Michael Mahaney
City Manager
____________
Terry K. Floyd
City Attorney
____________
Gwendolyn W. Mungin
City Clerk
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a complete codification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of St. Marys, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the ordinances adopted by the mayor and council. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix.
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE       RLCT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CDB:1
CDC:1
CDD:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  Indexes
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Palmer Carr, Supervising Editor, and Laura Johnson, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Michael Mahaney, City Manager, and Mr. Terry K. Floyd, City Attorney, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the City of St. Marys, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the City of St. Marys, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the City of St. Marys, Georgia. 1996.
AN ACT ESTABLISHING THE TOWN OF ST. MARYS [1]
To establish a town on St. Mary's river, in the county of Camden, for altering the place of holding the courts and elections within the said county, and for appointing commissioners to erect a court-house and gaol in the county of Franklin.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, in General Assembly met, That a town heretofore laid out on the river St. Mary's, in the county of Camden, a plat whereof has been recorded in the office of the county-surveyor of said county, shall be, from and after the passing of this act, vested in five commissioners, and be known by the name of St. Mary's, and that James Seagrove, William Maubrey, William Johnston, Thomas King and John King be appointed commissioners thereof, who or a majority of them, are hereby authorized and required within twelve months after the passing of this act to transmit to the surveyor-general a fair and correct copy of the plan of the said town by him to be recorded in the office of the surveyor general of this state.
And be it further enacted, That in case of the death or refusal to act on any of the said commissioners, his excellency the governor is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint some other person or persons in his or their room.
And be it further enacted, That James Seagrove, William Maubrey, William Johnston, John King, Thomas King and Abner Hammend be and they are hereby appointed commissioners of the court-house and gaol for the said county of Camden, in addition to those already appointed, whose duty it shall be within six months after the passing this act to convene at some place to be by them or a majority of them agreed on for that purpose, and then, there, by such majority to decide on the most eligible place for erecting the same, at which place, after the said determination, the courts and elections for the said county, shall be thereafter held.
And be it further enacted, That James Little, Benjamin Echols, George Henning, James Whitney, Roderick Easly, Esquire, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to fix upon the most convenient place for a court-house and gaol in Franklin county, and for erecting the same, in addition to those appointed by an act entitled, "an Act to grant money for the purpose of building and repairing court-houses and gaols," passed the fifteenth of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
And be it further enacted, That from and after the time of fixing and agreeing on the place for holding the said courts and elections, that so much of an act entitled, "an Act for fixing on proper places in the counties of Effingham, Glynn and Camden, for erecting gaols and court-houses, and for establishing superior courts in the counties of Franklin and Greene," passed at Augusta the tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven, as respects the erecting of a gaol and court-house, and holding elections for the county of Camden at the town of St. Patrick's, on the Great Satilla river, be and the same is hereby repealed.
EXPAND
WILLIAM GIBBONS,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives
BENJAMIN TALIAFERRO,
President of the Senate
  Concurred, December 5, 1792.
EXPAND
EDWARD TELFAIR,
Governor
  ADOPTING ORDINANCE
An Ordinance to Adopt a City Code of Ordinances; To Provide for Exemptions from Repeal of Certain Existing Ordinances; To Provide for an Effective Date; and for Other Purposes.
BE IT AND IT IS Hereby Ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of St. Marys that:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein for historic reference is the 1792 act of the Georgia General Assembly which established a town to be known as the Town of St. Mary's. The original act is set forth in 1792 Ga. Laws, page 43. In 1858, pursuant to 1858 Ga. Laws, page 141, the name of the town was changed to City of St. Marys.

Section 1. - Purpose.
The purpose of this ordinance is to adopt and implement a codification of the existing ordinances of the City of St. Marys so as to further the efficient administration and enforcement of the City's Ordinances and regulations.
Section 2. - Adoption of City Code.
Subject to the provisions of Section 3 of this Ordinance, the 1996 Edition of the Code of Ordinances, City of St. Marys, Georgia, as compiled, codified, printed and produced by the Municipal Code Corporation, a complete copy of which is attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof, is hereby adopted as the codification of the general and permanent ordinances of the City of St. Marys.
Section 3. - Exemption from repeal of certain ordinances.
A.
The adoption of the Code of Ordinances as above-provided shall not effect or be construed as effecting a repeal of, or otherwise affect the validity or enforceability of the Ordinances set forth below, together with any amendments thereto; such Ordinances either having been adopted and enacted since the printing of the Code herein adopted or having been accidentally omitted from the compilation, codification and printing of the Code, to wit:
An Ordinance Providing for Seizure, Sale and Disposition of Abandoned, Stolen or Recovered Property, adopted July 8, 1991.
Radar Permit and Speed Limit Ordinance, adopted June 10, 1996.
Adult Entertainment Ordinance, adopted November 11, 1996.
An Ordinance to Govern Enforcement of Building and Construction Codes, adopted May 22, 1995.
An Ordinance to Establish an Industrial Development Commission, adopted June 21, 1979.
An Ordinance to Adopt the Ad Valorem Tax Lien Enforcement Provisions of O.C.G.A. Title 48, Article 5, adopted October 24, 1995.
An Ordinance creating "Subdivision Regulations of St. Marys, Georgia" adopted September 7, 1978, and all amendments thereto.
An Ordinance Adopting the Georgia Uniform Rules of the Road, adopted September 25, 1995.
An Ordinance to Amend a Plan and Agreement with the Employee's Retirement System of Georgia with Regard to Election Officials, adopted January 8, 1996.
All Ordinances Dealing with and Providing for Retirement Benefits and Retirement Benefit Plans for Employees and Officials of the City of St. Marys.
All Ordinances Creating City Boards, Commissions and Authorities.
B.
Such Ordinances shall continue in full force and effect and the Code shall be supplemented so as to reflect their inclusion.
Section 4. - Repeal of specific conflicting ordinances.
The provisions of the Adult Entertainment Ordinance adopted by Council on December 6, 1979, which is found in Article II of Chapter 22 (Sections 22-76 through 22-86) of the City Code herein adopted is hereby stricken in its entirety, and the City Clerk is directed to substitute in lieu thereof the provisions of the Adult Entertainment Ordinance heretofore adopted by Council on November 11, 1996.
Section 5. - Severability.
In the event any portion of this Ordinance shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, it is the intention of the City Council of the City of St. Marys that such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Ordinance which shall remain in full force and effect, as if the invalid or unconstitutional section, sentence, clause or phrase were not originally a part of the Ordinance.
Section 6. - Effective date.
This Ordinance shall become effective at midnight on the 31st day of December, 1996.
Section 7. - Repealer.
All Ordinances and parts of Ordinances in conflict with this Ordinance are hereby repealed.
SO ORDAINED, this 9th day of December, 1996, by the Mayor and Council of City of St. Marys, Georgia.
CITY OF ST. MARYS, GEORGIA
By:;sigr;  \Its Mayor - Jerry Brandon
Attest:;sigr;  \Its Clerk - Gwendolyn Mungin
