ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES

Sec. 22-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. Words not defined in this section shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use.
Administrative fee means a component of an occupation tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
Employee means any individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form IRS W-2 but not a form 1099.
Dominant line means the type of business, within a multiple-line business, that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Location or office means any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business and enacted by the local government as a revenue raising ordinance for the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging the payment of the occupation tax fee and any additional appropriate fees.
Occupation tax registration form means a document filed with the city planning and zoning director's office acknowledging the number of employees of a business for the purpose of assessing the amount of a business occupation tax due. See also Return.
Person includes sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, nonprofit, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations which utilize 50 percent of their proceeds for charitable purposes.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax. Examples of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations include:
Lawyers;
Physicians licensed under O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.;
Osteopaths licensed under O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.;
Chiropractors;
Podiatrists;
Dentists;
Optometrists;
Psychologists;
Veterinarians;
Landscape architects;
Land surveyors;
Practitioners of physiotherapy;
Public accountants;
Embalmers;
Funeral directors;
Civil, mechanical, hydraulic, or electrical engineers;
Architects;
Marriage and family therapists, social workers, and professional counselors;
Dealers of motor vehicles, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 10-1-622(1);
Any other business, profession, or occupation for which state licensure or registration is required by state law, unless the state law regulating such business, profession or occupation specifically allows for regulation by local governments.
Return means an occupation tax registration form or other type of document requesting information as to the number of employees which a business has to file with the city planning and zoning director's office. The form is used to assess the amount of occupation tax due.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 302)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-22. - Purpose and scope of article.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade, or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5 to 48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 401)
Sec. 22-23. - Levied.
An occupation tax based upon the number of employees in the state is levied upon businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city and, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, upon out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the city but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 402)
Sec. 22-24. - Payment required for business dealings; certificate to be displayed.
For the year 1996 and succeeding years thereafter, every business, practitioner and location in the city or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state exerting substantial efforts within the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for the business, practitioner and location. Such current occupation tax certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the city. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent business location in the city, a city occupation tax certificate or proof of payment of an occupation tax to another municipality or county in the state shall be shown to the planning and zoning director or their administrative assistant or the building official, or to any police officer of the city, upon request.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), art. 2)
Sec. 22-25. - Administrative fee.
In addition to the occupation tax, a nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee of $75.00 is required on all occupation tax accounts for the initial registration, annual renewal, or reopening of such accounts.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 404; Ord. of 6-10-02; Ord. No. 2019-8-5-001 , 8-5-19)
Sec. 22-26. - Occupation tax schedule.
(a)
The tax rate, as determined by the number of employees, for each business, trade, profession, or occupation, shall be as follows:
EXPAND
Number of
Employees Tax Liability
1—50 $33.00 per employee
51—100 $1,650.00 plus $10.00 per employee over 50
101—250 $2,150.00 plus $5.00 per employee over 100
251 or more $2,900.00 plus $2.00 per employee over 250
  This fee may be developed and updated from time to time by the mayor and council of the city.
(b)
The tax rate is based on full-time employees working a minimum of 40 hours per week. Part-time employees who work less than 40 hours per week are to have the total number of hours worked each week added together and divided by 40 to establish the equivalent number of full-time employees.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 403; Ord. of 6-10-02; Ord. No. 2019-8-5-001 , 8-5-19)
Sec. 22-27. - Filing registration form.
(a)
On or before November 15 of each year, an individual, business or practitioner subject to this article shall file with the planning and zoning director's office, on a form approved by and available from the city, a signed return attesting to the number of employees of such business or practitioner during the calendar year.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners doing business in the city shall submit to the planning and zoning director's office or make available within 30 days such information as may be required or requested by the city to determine the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or to facilitate levying or collection of the occupation tax.
(c)
The occupation tax certificate provided for in this article shall be issued by the planning and zoning director and/or his administrative assistant.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 405)
Sec. 22-28. - Restrictions on tax levy.
(a)
No business or practitioner shall be required to pay more than one occupation tax for each of its locations.
(b)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to occupation tax pursuant to this article only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city.
(c)
An occupation tax shall not be levied in any other manner except as described in this article.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 501(1)—(3))
Sec. 22-29. - Business subject to tax to display decal.
Each place of business subject to occupation tax imposed herein shall display a decal, which shall be provided by the city, on the front door of the main entrance of the building or in some other prominent and visible location on the front exterior of the business premises.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 501(4))
Sec. 22-30. - Dominant line of business to be identified on registration form.
The occupation tax registration form of each business operated in the city shall identify the line or lines of business that the business conducts. No business shall conduct any line of business without first having that line of business registered with the city. The dominant line of business shall be noted on the occupation tax certificate issued by the city which must be displayed by the business owner.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 502)
Sec. 22-31. - Business operating at more than one location.
(a)
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(b)
Location or office shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 503)
Sec. 22-32. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; display.
(a)
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. tit. 43 by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before any city occupation tax certificate may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 504)
Sec. 22-33. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency, or any other regulatory matter, shall first, before the issuance of a city occupation tax certificate, show evidence that such requirements have been met.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of the business shall do so before the occupation tax certificate is issued.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 505)
Sec. 22-34. - Payment by newly established businesses.
(a)
If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees, which are the basis of this occupation tax, will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees. If such estimate is not accurate, then no later than December 31 the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicating the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amounts due and owing to the city for any reason or paid to the business or practitioner at the discretion of the finance director.
(b)
If a business or practitioner commences business in the city on or after July 1 of any year, the occupation tax fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The administrative fee is not reduced.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 506)
Sec. 22-35. - Businesses with office or location elsewhere in state.
A business or practitioner which is subject to an occupation tax by another local government and is claiming an exemption from the occupation tax imposed by this article shall submit documentation as to current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and basis of such tax.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 507)
Sec. 22-36. - Business or practitioner with no office or location in state.
(a)
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in this state provides to the city proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business' or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this occupation tax.
(b)
A business or practitioner with no location or office in this state shall only be required to pay an occupation tax to the local government in this state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof as to the applicability of this subsection.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 508(1), (2))
Sec. 22-37. - Business or practitioner subject to tax by more than one local government in the state.
A business or practitioner which has locations in the state subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall only be subject to occupation tax by the city for the number of employees who are employed within the corporate limits of the city. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of current payment of the occupation tax of the other local government.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 508(3))
Sec. 22-38. - Same employee working for business in more than one municipal corporation or county.
If the same employee works for the same business or practitioner in more than one municipal corporation or county and the business or practitioner submits proof of this, the employee shall be counted as an employee in the city only if the city is the jurisdiction where such employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 508(4))
Sec. 22-39. - Professionals as classified in state law.
Practitioners of professions and occupations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) (see list under definitions) shall pay the occupation tax set forth in section 22-26 or shall pay an occupation tax of $200.00 per practitioner. On the tax return for 1996 or such later time as the practitioner first commences business in the city, the practitioner shall elect a method of taxation. Such election shall be changed for subsequent calendar years only by a written request filed by the practitioner on or before February 1 of the year in which the election is to be changed.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 509)
Sec. 22-40. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for a government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state shall not be required to pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 510)
Sec. 22-41. - Exemption for business operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which an occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from the tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose, unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 511)
Sec. 22-42. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
(a)
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary occupation tax certificate for the business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain an occupation tax certificate. Every person commencing business in the city after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing the business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the city, any of the kinds of businesses, trades, professions, or occupations without first having so obtained such registration, shall be subject to penalties provided therefor.
(b)
All persons subject to the occupation tax imposed by this article shall be required to file for and pay such tax. For failure to do so any officers or agents soliciting for or obtaining [sic] such person or business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons, businesses or practitioners who fail to obtain an occupation tax certificate, make a return for or pay the applicable occupation tax.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 512)
Sec. 22-43. - Returns confidential.
Information provided by a business or practitioner to the city for the purpose of determining the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or levying or collecting the occupation tax is confidential and exempt from disclosure under O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq. Such information may be provided to the governing authority of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting the occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay the occupation tax.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 602)
Sec. 22-44. - Inspections of books and records.
The city through is officers, agents, employees, or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The planning and zoning director or his duly appointed designee shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the city, and upon demand of the planning and zoning director such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the city within 30 days. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the occupation tax certificate currently existing to do business in the city. Adequate records shall be kept in the city for examination by the planning and zoning director, at that officer's discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of under reporting, a penalty of ten percent of the tax due over 90 days as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 48-2-40 through 48-2-43, 48-13-6, 48-13-21 will be assessed for the period delinquent.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 603)
Sec. 22-45. - Due date for payment; penalty for delinquency; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Any occupation tax due pursuant to this article shall be due and payable annually on January 1 of each year. If any person commences business in the city after January 1 in any year, the tax shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business.
(b)
Any individual, business or practitioner subject to any occupation tax imposed by this article which is unpaid for 90 days after the date on which payment was due shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the tax due.
(c)
The occupation tax certificate shall be issued by the planning and zoning director or his administrative assistant and if any person, firm or corporation whose duty it is to obtain an occupation tax certificate shall, after the occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the city, any kind of business, trade, profession, or occupation subject to this article without first having obtained such occupation tax certificate, such offenders shall, upon conviction by the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-12, for each violation.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 701)
Sec. 22-46. - Certificate to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns, permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay the occupation tax which is delinquent; or upon failure to make any of the returns within the time required herein; or upon failure to make a true return; or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth; or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as provided in section 22-44, then any occupation tax certificate granted by the city under this article permitting the owner of the business to transact business for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new occupation tax certificate shall be issued by the city for the operation of a business, which has any part of the occupation tax provided for in this article either unpaid or declared delinquent at the time of filing of the business tax registration form; or to an individual, firm, or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the planning and zoning director or his designee in accordance with provisions found in section 22-44. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 702)
Sec. 22-47. - Failure to comply with article; continuing in business after revocation of certificate.
(a)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to make a timely or truthful tax return or make available truthful and accurate information the city requests or requires for determining the applicability or amount of occupation tax, or for levying or collecting such occupation tax shall be subject to suspension of the right to conduct business. Any persons, their managers, agents, or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees, or representatives of the city, request such inspection, during normal city hall business hours for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns provided for in this article, shall be subject to penalties provided in this article. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to pay any occupation tax charged pursuant to this article shall be subject to, upon conviction by the municipal court, a fine of up to $500.00 or by imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both, for each violation.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 703)
Sec. 22-48. - Lien taken for delinquent tax.
(a)
In addition to the other remedies provided for in this article for the collection of the occupation tax, the planning and zoning director or his designee or other official of the city shall issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing. Such executions shall bear interest at the rate authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 or, if such statute should be repealed, one percent per month. The lien shall cover the property of the individual, business or practitioner liable for payment of the delinquent occupation tax and become fixed as of the date and time the occupation tax became delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the planning and zoning director or other appropriate official of the city upon property of the delinquent taxpayer located in the city and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, including penalty, interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by the Code and Charter of the city, and the laws of the state and the defendant in the execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions.
(b)
When a nulla bona entry has been entered upon an execution, the person against whom the entry is made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due to such person as if such person had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 704)
Sec. 22-49. - Businesses not covered by this article.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied on the following:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Nonprofit, agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal or hulls in carload lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356 for persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in this state when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Any business where the levy of such occupation tax is prohibited by the laws of the state or the United States.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this article shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any way any franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 801)
Sec. 22-50. - Tax inapplicable in certain situations.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 802)
Sec. 22-51. - Article subject to amendment or repeal.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the city council to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. Such amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 901)
Sec. 22-52. - Application of article to prior ordinances.
To the extent that any occupation taxes are owed pursuant to an ordinance passed prior to the ordinance from which this article derives, such amounts remain due and owing and the provisions of that prior ordinance will remain in effect with respect to such unpaid occupation taxes until such time as they are paid in full.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 902)
Sec. 22-53. - Article to remain in full force and effect until changed by city council.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the city council. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax herein levied shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 903)
Sec. 22-54. - Public hearing required before tax rate is increased.
The city shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of the occupation tax as set forth in this article. In addition, in any year in which revenues from occupation taxes for the city are greater than revenues from the occupation taxes for the preceding year, the city will be required to hold one or more public hearings to determine how to use the additional revenue.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 1001)
Sec. 22-55. - Option to establish exemptions or reductions for types of businesses.
The city council may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in the occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development of attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious, and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the governing authority or a plan.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 1002)
Sec. 22-56. - Enforcement.
It is hereby made the duty of the planning and zoning director, his designees and the police department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of this article to appear before the municipal court. It is hereby made the further duty of the planning and zoning director, the building official, other city officials as well as the members of the police department and their assistants to inspect all occupation tax certificates issued by the city, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 601)
Sec. 22-57. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction by the municipal court, be punished as provided in section 1-12 for each violation.
(Ord. of 11-13-95(1), § 513)
Secs. 22-58—22-75. - Reserved.
