Chapter 10 - BUSINESS AND BUSINESS REGULATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Suspension or revocation of license.
(a)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized, by written notice to the licensee, to order the suspension or revocation of any of the said licenses provided for by this article without the return to the licensee the unearned or unused portion of the fee collected. Licenses issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:
(1)
Fraud or misrepresentation in the application for the license;
(2)
Failure to pay all fees, taxes, or other charges imposed under the provisions of this chapter;
(3)
Conducting business contrary to the conditions of the license;
(4)
Conducting business in such a manner as to create a public nuisance or constitute a danger to public health, safety, or welfare.
(b)
However, upon receipt of the notice of suspension or revocation, the licensee may by written request filed with the city clerk within ten days from the date of the receipt of said notice, obtain a hearing before the mayor and council. The decision of the mayor and council after a hearing shall be final.
(Ord. No. 6, § 5, 10-12-1971)
Sec. 10-2. - Authorization.
The city clerk is hereby authorized to issue the licenses and collect the fees or charges provided for by this article.
(Ord. No. 6, § 6, 10-12-1971; Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 7, 12-13-1982)
Secs. 10-3—10-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSING

Sec. 10-23. - Patronage of games or devices.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to conduct for public patronage, or solicit patronage by the public, within the limits of the city, any games or devices without first obtaining a license from this city and paying the annual fee or charge to be established by the city council, from time to time.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 1, 12-13-1982; Ord. of 8-11-2008)
Sec. 10-24. - License term.
Each of said licenses provided for herein shall be for a term of one year beginning January 1.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 2, 12-13-1982)
Sec. 10-25. - License holder.
The holder or licensee of each license provided for by this article shall not conduct or operate the business enterprise, or mechanical or electronic device in violation of any law of the United States or the state or in violation of any ordinance of this city.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 3, 12-13-1982)
Sec. 10-26. - Exceptions.
This article shall not be construed to authorize the city to license any of the following activities:
(1)
Palm readers or fortune tellers, or any individual by any means whatsoever purporting to be able to foretell the future;
(2)
Junkyards;
(3)
Any lot, which shall become the site for collecting, gathering or storing abandoned, discarded, wrecked, scrapped, ruined or junked motor vehicles, or parts thereof, when said site is less than 100 yards distant, by the most direct measurement, from any dwelling house within this city;
(4)
Abattoir or slaughter house;
(5)
Gambling.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 4, 12-13-1982)
Sec. 10-27. - Authority of mayor and city council.
The mayor and council of this city are hereby authorized to investigate each applicant for each of the licenses covered in this article, and after said investigation, to refuse to issue to said applicant any of the licenses provided for by this article.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 5, 12-13-1982)
Sec. 10-28. - Suspension/revocation of licenses.
(a)
The mayor and council are hereby authorized in their discretion, after prior written notice to the holder of any license provided for in this article, to order the suspension or revocation of any of the said licenses provided for by this article without the return to the licensee the unused or unearned portion of the fee collected. However, upon receipt of the notice of suspension or revocation, the said licensee may, by written request filed with the city clerk within ten days from the date of the receipt of said notice, obtain a hearing before the mayor and council. The decision of the mayor and council after hearing shall be final.
(b)
Penalty fee of 50 percent of the annual fee to any business that has not paid by January 1, and to allow the closing of the business if fees are not paid by February 1 of the year due.
(Ord. No. 12-13-1982, § 6, 12-13-1982; Ord. of 11-12-1990, § 6; Ord. of 8-11-2008)
Secs. 10-29—10-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - ADULT BUSINESSES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Establishment, maintenance, or use of building, structure, or place for unlawful sexual purposes, O.C.G.A. § 41-3-1; prohibited conduct, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-41; governing authority has power to enact legislation to restrict operation of adult bookstores, explicit media outlets, and adult movie houses to areas zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.

Sec. 10-60. - Public purpose.
Sexually oriented businesses require special supervision in order to protect and preserve the health, safety and welfare of the patrons of such businesses as well as the citizens of the community, and many types of criminal activities are frequently engendered by adult entertainment businesses, such as disorderly conduct, prostitution, solicitation, and drug trafficking and use, and adult entertainment businesses can lead to community blight, depression of property values, increased expenditure for law enforcement personnel and an increased burden on the judicial system.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 1, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-61. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult dancing establishment/erotic dance establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas, or which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. The terms "adult dance establishment," "erotic dance establishment," and "adult entertainment establishment" are used interchangeably.
Adult entertainment means entertainment that is characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, display or the featuring of "specified anatomical areas." Adult entertainment includes performances by persons that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" as defined herein, and/or performances that feature, depict, display, or emphasize their genitals, pubic region, anus, or female breasts, even if their specified anatomical areas are opaquely covered as provided herein.
Alcoholic beverage shall have its usual meaning, and shall include, but not be limited to, beer, wine, liquor, wine coolers or any other beverage where the alcohol has been synthesized to make it consumable.
Employee or adult entertainment establishment employee means any person who performs any service on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is an employee, an independent contractor, or any other kind of agent, and whether or not said person performs such services only for tips or is paid a salary, wage, or any other type of compensation by the adult entertainment establishment. The term "employee" or "adult entertainment establishment employee" shall include, but is not limited to, entertainers, wait staff, parking attendants, security personnel, cooks and dishwashers. The term "employee" or "adult entertainment establishment employee" shall not include a person who is temporarily on the premises for the sole purpose of repair or maintenance of the premises, or any building or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of any goods or merchandise to the premises.
Good moral character means a person who has not been convicted within the past five years of a felony or any other crime involving moral turpitude. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeitures when charged with a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude. Any person sentenced under the First Offender Act is included for the length of his sentence, not to exceed five years. In considering whether a person is of good moral character, other factors may be considered. If the licensee is a corporation, any stockholder holding five percent of the stock is subject to this section.
License means a business license issued by the city to a licensee that authorizes the licensee to operate, engage in, or carry on a business.
Licensee means the holder of a business license issued.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Operator means the manager or other person principally in charge of an adult entertainment establishment.
Owner means any individual or entity holding more than a 20 percent interest in an adult entertainment establishment.
Premises or licensed premises means the property or premises where an adult entertainment establishment licensed under this chapter operates, conducts, or carries on its business, and shall include the entire tract or parcel of land where such business is conducted.
Specified anatomical areas includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activity means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or stimulated sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual act prohibited by law, or the simulation of any of the above;
(2)
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation;
(4)
Masochism, erotic or sexually-oriented torture, beating, or the infliction of pain; or
(5)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 2, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-62. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall advertise or cause to be advertised an erotic dance establishment without a valid license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(b)
No later than March 1 of each year, an erotic dance establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the license officer showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding year.
(c)
No person under the age of 18 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
(d)
No licensee shall operate between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. No licensee shall operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Saturday. No licensee shall operate on Sunday.
(e)
No erotic dance establishment licensee shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating beverage or controlled substance (this includes brown bagging) upon his premises.
(f)
All licenses shall be conspicuously displayed.
(g)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor.
(h)
No dancing shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
(i)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron, and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(j)
All areas of an establishment licensed hereunder shall be fully lighted at all times when patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3½ footcandles per foot.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 3, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-63. - Location.
No adult dance establishment or use restricted hereunder shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is either named or used for residential uses or purposes;
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park or playground is located;
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated hereunder is located;
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any other establishment selling alcohol is located;
(5)
On less than one acre of land containing at least 100 feet of road frontage.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 4, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-64. - Adult dance establishment employees.
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult dance entertainment establishment must be at least 18 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character, as defined in this chapter. Any employee convicted of a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed shall not be able to work at an adult dance establishment for a period of five years from the date of conviction. See the definition of "employee" or "adult entertainment establishment employee" in section 10-61.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, such person shall file a notice with the licensing officer on forms supplied by the licensing officer. Any falsification of the form will lead to automatic disqualification or termination. An investigation fee to be established by the city council, from time to time that is nonrefundable, shall accompany the notice of intended employment. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of the denial request a hearing, in writing, before the mayor and council. At all times, the person is entitled to written findings of fact and to be represented by an attorney.
(c)
Suspension or revocation. Violation of the terms of this article shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of a license. Said employee would have the right to appeal as set out above.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and subject to the above requirement.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 5, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-65. - Application for license, cost of license, and investigation.
(a)
Any person, associate, partnership or corporation desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult dance establishment shall make an application to the licensing officer.
(b)
The cost of the license itself shall be determined by the city council, from time to time.
(c)
All applicants must fill out the investigation form and submit to a background check. An additional nonrefundable investigative fee as established by city council from time to time is to be paid with the license application.
(d)
The city shall have 30 days to complete its investigation into the background of the applicant. The mayor and council may grant permits if it finds that the applicant (including stockholders, if appropriate) meets the requirements as set forth in this article. Other criteria to be considered are whether the building meets all health and safety standards and requirements; whether the applicant has had previous permits revoked by this city or any other city; and whether the applicant is at least 21 years of age.
(e)
A copy of the application and investigation form are available at city hall.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 6, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-66. - License refusal; appeal.
If the city determines the applicant does not meet the requirements of this article, within 30 days, it shall notify the applicant, in writing, as to the specific reasons for the denial. Any applicant may, within ten days, appeal to the mayor and council. The applicant is entitled to written findings of fact and to be represented by an attorney.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 7, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-67. - License fee and renewal.
The license fee is to be established by the city council, from time to time. It is renewable annually, not later than January 1 of each year. Such license will only be renewed in the event a current licensee is in full and complete compliance with all the provisions of this article and the laws of the state.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 8, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-68. - Nontransferable.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned to any person or entity. Any such sale, transfer or assignment shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license, and such license shall be null and void.
(b)
Note: this does not affect transfers brought on by a death, and in such case, the beneficiary shall sit in place of the previous licensee. If the licensee is a corporation and the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of the license is thereafter issued or sold, the license shall be terminated.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 9, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-69. - Change of location or name.
No adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its license, nor change its name, until approval has been obtained from the mayor and city council. Such approval will not be given unless all requirements and regulations contained in this Code have been met.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 10, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-70. - Appeal procedure.
(a)
The licensee shall, within ten days after notification of an adverse determination, submit a written notice of appeal to the city clerk.
(b)
The city clerk shall place the appeal on the agenda for a regular or special meeting of the mayor and council not less than five nor more than 30 days after receipt of the notice.
(c)
The notice shall specify the subject matter of the appeal, the date of the request or application and the date of the adverse decision.
(d)
The city clerk shall provide notice to the applicant, in writing, of the date for the appeal to be heard.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 11, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-71. - Hearing procedure.
The mayor and council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the applicant, from interested parties, and from city staff. Traditional rules of evidence shall not apply at this hearing.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 12, 5-13-1996)
Sec. 10-72. - Penalties.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine according to the penalties described in the general provisions chapter of this Code. Violations shall also be grounds for suspension or termination of license issued hereunder.
(Ord. No. 1996-05-13, § 13, 5-13-1996)
Secs. 10-73—10-102. - Reserved.
