Chapter 19 - SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Junkyards, ch. 10; nuisances, ch. 13; littering, § 14-5.
State Law reference— Authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; hazardous waste disposal, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-61 et seq.; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; wrecker driver required to remove glass and parts of vehicle being towed, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-277.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 19-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes shall mean and include the waste products from coal, wood and other fuels used for cooking and heating from all public and private residences and establishments.
Building rubbish shall mean waste material resulting from construction, remodeling repairs and demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including driveways and walks, and it comprises waste and rejected matter such as excavated earth, stones, bricks, plaster, wallpaper, sheetrock and lathes, lumber, shingles, tile, concrete and waste parts occasioned by the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems, electrical work and roofing.
Dumpster shall mean a metal container furnished by the city and which remains stationary.
Garbage shall mean waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used for or intended for food or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Industrial waste shall mean solid waste materials from factories, processing plants, wholesale establishments, assembling plants or shops and garages, such as paper, cardboard, cartons, food processing wastes, cinders and ashes, lumber scraps, sawdust, excelsior, shavings, floor sweepings, metal scrap and shavings, glass and other waste products.
Recyclable material shall mean materials suitable for the city to collect from residents and businesses for resale or reuse. Such materials include:
(1)
Cardboard.
(2)
Newspapers.
(3)
Aluminum cans.
(4)
Plastic containers.
(5)
Glass bottles and jars.
Roll-out container shall mean a plastic 80- or 90-gallon container furnished by the city which has a lid and wheels to roll on.
Rubbish shall mean a variety of combustible and noncombustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastics, cartons, boxes, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, rubber, discarded clothing and similar materials.
Scavenge shall mean uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste shall mean putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except human body waste, and includes garbage, rubbish, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, construction wastes and any other wastes in a solid or semi-solid state, not otherwise defined in this section.
Waste shall mean unwanted or discarded material, except human body waste.
Yard rubbish (trash) shall mean tree branches, stumps, twigs, grass and shrub trimmings, bushes, weeds, leaves and general yard and garden waste materials.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-1)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 19-2. - Waste acceptable for collection.
Garbage, rubbish, yard rubbish and industrial waste constitute waste acceptable for collection by the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-2)
Sec. 19-3. - Waste unacceptable for collection.
(a)
The following items constitute waste normally unacceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Dangerous or hazardous materials or substances such as poisons, acids, caustics and explosives.
(2)
Building rubbish.
(3)
Ashes—Industrial waste.
(4)
Cut trees more than three inches in diameter.
(5)
Automobile and motor vehicle tires.
(6)
All other solid waste not specifically authorized herein.
(b)
Any person responsible for waste not acceptable for collection by the city shall make any arrangements as may be necessary for the collection and disposal of the unacceptable waste.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-3)
Sec. 19-4. - Disposal of trees, yard rubbish and building debris.
(a)
The city will remove small tree limbs, shrubbery trimmings and yard rubbish on assigned days, provided such limbs or trimmings are cut into lengths of not more than six feet. All limbs, rubbish and cuttings shall be placed as near as possible to the street or sidewalk right-of-way adjacent to the property owners' or occupants' property but not in streets or sidewalks. At no time shall yard rubbish or trash be placed in ditches, gutters, drains, walkways or alleys or streets of the city.
(b)
The city will not remove cut or fallen trees or limbs over three inches in diameter, regardless of whether or not they have been cut into short lengths. It will be the responsibility of individual property owners to remove such trees.
(c)
Any building debris such as plaster, roofing, concrete, boards, brick and other such rubbish resulting from repairs, remodeling or construction of any building will not be removed by the city. Individual property owners shall be responsible for the removal and disposal of all such debris.
(d)
The city will vacuum leaf piles placed on the street right-of-way on assigned days. Such piles may not contain any yard rubbish other than leaves. Piles containing yard rubbish, sticks, limbs or brush will not be picked up.
(e)
The city will remove the following items if they are placed in a recycling basket provided by the city and placed on the street right-of-way on assigned days:
(1)
Newspapers.
(2)
Aluminum cans.
(3)
Plastic containers.
(4)
Glass bottles and jars.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-4)
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.
Sec. 19-5. - Disposition of hazardous substances.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any combustible, inflammable or any other hazardous waste substances within the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-5)
Sec. 19-6. - Unauthorized accumulation of solid waste; nuisance; unlawful to deposit on streets, lots, etc.
(a)
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within a reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice from the appropriate department shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(b)
No person shall deposit, throw or place or cause to be deposited, thrown or placed into or upon any public square, street, alley, or sidewalk, vacant lot or unoccupied premises of the city any paper, rags, shavings, trash, rubbish, chips, ashes, rotten fruit, vegetables, dead bodies, liquids or any thing or things which are or may become offensive, or which may injure or damage any of said public squares, streets, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots or unoccupied premises, or interfere with the free use and enjoyment of the same.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-6)
Cross reference— Nuisances, ch. 13.
Sec. 19-7. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner thereof.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-7)
Sec. 19-8. - Requirements for vehicles transporting refuse.
Any vehicle used to transport garbage, ashes or rubbish or waste of any kind upon the streets of the city shall be so constructed and equipped as to prevent escape of any of the contents of the vehicle.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-8)
Sec. 19-9. - Cardboard disposal.
Cardboard will be collected from commercial establishments only if placed in designated containers marked "cardboard only."
Secs. 19-10—19-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTIONS

Sec. 19-36. - Authority of director of public works.
(a)
The director of public works shall be responsible for the collection and disposal of all garbage, rubbish and industrial waste.
(b)
The director of public works shall also be responsible for the collection and disposal of all yard rubbish (trash).
(Code 1985, § 5-2-21(A), (B))
Sec. 19-37. - Permit required for private collectors.
No person shall collect and dispose of or transport over the streets of the city any garbage, rubbish, yard rubbish or industrial waste without first obtaining a written permit from the city to do so.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-21(C))
Sec. 19-38. - Collection containers provided by city.
(a)
The city shall furnish to each owner or leasee of a single-family residence within the city a roll-out cart and a recycling basket. Any such owner or leasee shall be responsible for replacing the roll-out cart and/or recycling basket if it is damaged due to their negligence. In the event an owner or leasee shall move from the residence to which the cart has been assigned, such owner or leasee shall notify the city and the cart will be reclaimed.
(b)
The city shall, at its option, either provide roll-out carts and recycling baskets to individual residents of multifamily housing or a sufficient number of stationary dumpsters in each apartment complex for use by residents.
(c)
All nonresidential waste or garbage customers must use a dumpster for depositing garbage, waste and rubbish. Such dumpsters shall be furnished by the city. No cardboard boxes may be placed in a dumpster unless they are first broken down and folded so as to be flat.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-23)
Sec. 19-39. - Size, bundling and placement of refuse.
(a)
All garbage, rubbish and industrial waste shall be placed in the container supplied by the city. Such refuse will not be collected if it is not in the container nor shall any refuse be removed if the container contains materials listed in section 19-3.
(b)
Residential owners and leasees who have been given a roll-out cart and recycling basket shall place the cart and basket near the curb or street by 7:00 a.m. on the day of collection in their area prior to the arrival of the sanitation vehicles and shall remove the cart by 7:00 p.m. of the same day. This requirement of curbside placement may be waived for any person who is physically unable to place the cart on the street. The city manager must approve all such waivers.
(c)
All yard rubbish shall be placed for collection pursuant to the requirements under section 19-4.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-24)
Sec. 19-40. - Monthly charge imposed; persons liable.
In order to defray the costs and expense of providing for the collection of garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse and recyclables refuse, monthly sanitary and health fees are herewith fixed and assessed against the owner or occupant of each improved premises within the city. Each occupant of an improved premises shall be liable for the payment of the monthly charge to the city, but if for any reason the occupant of an improved premises shall fail to pay the monthly charge to the city, then the owner of the improved premises shall be liable for the payment thereof. Owners of premises which are unoccupied shall not incur a monthly charge where the premises remain unoccupied for a continuous period of 30 days and the owner has given advance written notice to the director of public works of the period of time for which owned premises will be unoccupied. The amount of the monthly charges shall be set from time to time and a schedule of such charges is on file in the city clerk's office.
(Code 1985, §§ 5-2-27, 5-2-28; Ord. No. 88-015, § 1, 6-20-88; Ord. No. 98-008, § I, 8-10-98)
Sec. 19-41. - Evasion of monthly charge.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed on the premises of another, with or without the permission of any other person, any garbage, garbage substances, refuse or debris, for the purpose of avoiding payment of the monthly sanitation and health charge.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-30)
Sec. 19-42. - Termination of other services for nonpayment of charges.
Any person failing for any reason or refusing to pay the monthly sanitary and health charge imposed by the city shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, in addition to other penalties, all sanitary and health services and water service provided by the city to the premises for which the monthly charges are past due shall be terminated by the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-31)
