ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 23-1. - Connection of utilities—Notice from city.
No utility doing business in the city, including the city gas department, the city water department and the Georgia Power Company shall make any new or remodeled service connections to any building or mobile home in the city without being first notified in writing by the duly authorized city official that all codes and ordinances of the city have been complied with by the premises to be served.
(Code 1985, § 6-1-1)
Sec. 23-2. - Same—City supervision; permit required.
All connections to the city sewerage, water and gas systems shall be made at the place on the property designated by a duly authorized official of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to, tap-in, repair, add to or otherwise tamper with or change any of the city utility systems without a permit therefor from the city. All work performed under such permit shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the duly authorized official of the city.
(Code 1985, § 6-1-2)
Sec. 23-3. - Tampering with meters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, damage or injure any gas meter, electric meter or water meter in the city.
(Code 1985, § 6-1-3)
Sec. 23-4. - Using water from hydrant.
Any person desiring to use any water out of a city fire hydrant shall contact the head of the city water department and the city shall meter the amount of water used by such person from the fire hydrant. Such person shall pay the city the current sum which shall be for the cost of the labor of installing the meter and the cost of amortizing the meter and in addition, shall pay in accordance with the published rate for the water taken from the city system. Any person which shall take any water from a city fire hydrant without complying with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Code 1985, § 6-1-4)
Sec. 23-5. - Payment of monthly sanitary and health charge, due date; inclusion with water bill.
The monthly sanitary and health charge for each premises to which the city supplies water service shall be billed and collected in the same manner and at the same time as water service is billed and collected. The monthly sanitary and health charge for each premises to which the city does not supply water service shall be billed and collected monthly in advance by the tenth day of each month and shall be payable by the occupant or the owner.
(Code 1985, § 5-2-29)
Sec. 23-6. - Director of utilities.
The utilities of the city shall be under the control and supervision of the utilities director.
Secs. 23-7—23-30. - Reserved.
