Chapter 6 - CEMETERIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Planning and development, ch. 16; zoning, ch. 24.
State Law reference— City as trustee of cemetery funds, property, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-37-4, 36-37-5; cemeteries generally, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-130 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Rules, regulations; map, development plan.
The city will establish and maintain rules and regulations governing burial and grave digging in the city cemetery. The city will establish and maintain a cemetery map and development plan defining cemetery lots and future development.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-51)
Sec. 6-2. - Burials in cemetery required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or cause to be buried any dead person or persons in any place other than a designated cemetery.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-52)
Sec. 6-3. - Permit required for grave digging.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dig a grave in the city cemetery without first obtaining permission from the city for such grave digging, such permission to contain the name of the deceased person to be buried in the city cemetery, the lot and grave to be used for such burial, the name of the person who is the owner of such lot, the date of burial, the name of the funeral home handling the arrangements and the name of the person digging the grave.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-53)
Sec. 6-4. - Permit required for burial.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or cause to be buried any dead person or persons in the city cemetery without first obtaining from the city a permit for such burial, such permit to contain the name of the deceased person to be buried in the city cemetery, the lot to be used for such grave where the deceased person is to be buried, the name of the person who is the owner of such lot, the date of burial and the name of the funeral home handling the arrangements.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-54)
Sec. 6-5. - Damaging, defacing graves or cemetery.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way disturb any grave or to deface, pull up or remove anything erected or placed to mark a grave, or to remove any plank, post or timber, or any piling or wall placed around a grave in the city cemetery.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or to remove any tomb, monument, gravestone or other structure placed in the city cemetery, or to damage or remove any fence, railing or other work for the protection or decoration of any tomb, monument, gravestone or other structures aforesaid, or for the decoration or protection of the cemetery, or to destroy, cut, break, remove, or injure any tree, shrub or plant that may have been planted, or that may be growing in said cemetery, or to commit any other trespass within the city cemetery.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-55)
Secs. 6-6—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOTS

Sec. 6-31. - Nonmonument sections; authority to execute deeds; power to remove unauthorized monuments.
(a)
All sections located in the recent addition to the city cemetery on the west side of Falls Road in the city are hereby designated as nonmonument sections to be maintained as a perpetual care cemetery, and the mayor and the clerk of the commission are hereby authorized to execute deeds on behalf of the city to the purchasers of lots to be used for graves.
(b)
The city shall reserve the right to remove all markers erected in the nonmonument section.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-61)
Sec. 6-32. - Lot prices.
(a)
The term "taxpayer" as used in section 6-32(b) shall be defined as a person or entity paying ad valorem taxes on property located within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
All grave spaces in the city cemetery of the city shall be sold at the following prices:
(1)
Taxpayer: $500.00 per grave
(2)
Nontaxpayer: $800.00 per grave
(c)
The price scheduled established in this section may be hereinafter amended by resolution of the city commission.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-62; Ord. No. 85-028, 10-28-85; Ord. No. 85-030, 11-11-85; Ord. No. 95-015, § II, 11-20-95; Ord. No. 9-2004, § I, 7-12-04)
Sec. 6-33. - Payment of purchase price.
No burial permit shall be issued unless the lot in which a deceased person is to be buried has been paid for in full.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-63)
Sec. 6-34. - Deed restrictions and conditions.
All conveyances of city cemetery lots shall be made upon the following conditions, restrictions, rules and regulations which shall be annexed to the deed of conveyance:
(1)
All lots in the nonmonument section shall be conveyed on a perpetual care basis, and the owners of such lots shall not be permitted to erect any monument other than either a bronze or granite marker not more than ten inches wide and not more than 20 inches long to be set flush with the top of the ground, and all graves in such section shall be flat with no mounds.
(2)
All lots in the monument section are to be conveyed on the basis of future care and maintenance by the owner, with the privilege of erecting monuments or markers as the owner may desire.
(3)
All shrubbery planted in the cemetery shall be put out by and under the supervision of the city, and owners shall not plant shrubbery or plants on any lot. The city reserves the right to remove dead plants or shrubbery or any that may be growing too big or out of proportion to other shrubs and plants.
(4)
The city reserves the right to open all graves at current charges for such services.
(5)
No lot owner may sell his lot, or any part thereof, without first offering same to the city at a price not exceeding the original selling price.
(6)
No half or part lots are to be sold anywhere in the cemetery with the exception of those lots which are laid out by the city, and the price of half lots are to be in accordance with the section of the cemetery in which they are located, and in proportion to the amount of a full lot located in that section.
(7)
No boundary walls shall be erected in the cemetery. A white marble post will be furnished by the city for each lot corner at the prevailing prices.
(8)
After the original investment of $20,000.00 is reimbursed to the general fund of the city, all funds received from the sale of lots in the nonmonument section shall be placed in a perpetual care and maintenance cemetery fund to be designated as "City of Toccoa Cemetery Trust Fund," the principal amount of which is to be invested and the income turned over to the city for maintenance, improvement and enlargement of the cemetery.
(9)
All lots which are not sold for cash shall be sold on the basis of one-third of the sale price at the time of sale and the balance of the purchase price to be paid in four, five or six equal semiannual installments. No interest is to be charged on such deferred payments.
(10)
All lots shall be sold with the provision that title to the property conveyed shall not pass until final payment shall have been made by the purchaser.
(11)
All purchasers of cemetery lots shall agree to be subject to the rules, regulations, conditions and restriction placed on such deed.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-64)
