Chapter 9.5 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
modified
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; environment, § 7.5; fire prevention and protection, ch. 7.5; flood damage prevention, ch. 9; municipal court, ch. 12; nuisances, ch. 13; utilities, ch. 23.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 9.5-1—9.5-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADOPTION OF STATE AND COUNTY RULES AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 9.5-31. - State promulgated rules and regulations.
(a)
The following rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Public Health (DPH), including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, and which are expressly incorporated herein, are hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as set forth herein:
(1)
Control of Rabies, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-2.
(2)
Food Service, Comp. R, & Regs. § 290-5-14.
(3)
Tourist Accommodations, Comp. R. & Regs. § 511-6-2.
(4)
Portable Sanitation Contractors R. Regs. § 511-3-6
(5)
On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Comp. R. & Regs. § 511-3-1,
(6)
Drinking Water Supply, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-55,
(7)
Solid Waste, Comp, R. & Regs. § 290-3-56.
(8)
Special On-Site Sewage Management Systems, Comp, R. & Regs. § 290-5-59.
(9)
The Georgia Smokefree Air Act of 2005, Comp. R. & Regs. § 290-5-61.
(b)
Copies of those DPH rules and regulations are on file in the office of the city clerk, where the same are available for inspection and copying by the public during regular city operating hours.
( Ord. of 10-27-14, § I )
Sec. 9.5-32. - Local board of health enactments.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 31-3-1, et seq., in addition to the above-referenced rules and regulations of the Georgia DPH, the following rules and regulations have been enacted by the Stephens County Board of Health and are hereby adopted by the city in accordance with state law, and are further hereby adopted and approved for enforcement as set forth herein:
(1)
Rules and regulations concerning tattoo and body art, enacted by resolution, dated March 7, 2013, which are hereby set forth verbatim herein and adopted by the city upon lawful adoption of the ordinance from which his article derives.
(2)
Rules and regulations concerning rabies control, enacted by resolution, dated May 5, 2010, which are hereby set forth verbatim herein and adopted by the city upon lawful adoption of the ordinance from which his article derives.
(b)
Copies of those rules and regulations enacted by the Stephens County Board of Health, and having been adopted by the city, are on file in the office of the city clerk, where the same are available for inspection and copying by the public during regular city operating hours.
(c)
In addition, the rules and regulations concerning minimum lot sizes for the orderly and safe development of property utilizing on-site sewage management systems, having been enacted by the Stephens County Board of Health, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set out at length herein. The city may, however, require larger minimum lot sizes for utilization of on-site sewage management systems in zoning or land use districts providing for septic service, and in the event there is a conflict between the minimum lot size(s) established by the Stephens County Board of Health and that established by the city, the larger lot size(s) established by the city shall control and take precedence.
( Ord. of 10-27-14, §§ II, III )
Sec. 9.5-33. - Fees.
A fee schedule for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-referenced DPH Rules and Regulations and local board of health enactments, including permit and inspection fees, has been established by the Stephens County Board of Health, and is hereby adopted by the city. A copy of this fee schedule, including all subsequent amendments, revisions or modifications thereto, is on file in the office of the city clerk and is available for inspection and copying by the public during regular city operating hours.
( Ord. of 10-27-14, § IV )
Sec. 9.5-34. - Jurisdiction of enforcement and prosecution.
The enforcement and prosecution of this article shall be within the jurisdiction of the City of Toccoa and the Stephens County Board of Health, and their authorized designee(s) or agent(s), and all law enforcement personnel of the City of Toccoa, Georgia.
( Ord. of 10-27-14, § V )
Sec. 9.5-35. - Violations, penalties and enforcement.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any natural person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, to violate any of the above-identified rules and regulations) and/or to fail or refuse to pay any fee established by the Stephens County Board of Health, and adopted by the city, for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees.
(b)
Any person or persons or any legal entity including, and not limited to, a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm or trust, violating any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or six months imprisonment, or both; provided however, that for any single violation the period of imprisonment shall not exceed 120 days and provided, further, that the judge may probate any part or all of any punishment imposed pursuant to this section.
(c)
Each day during which a violation of any provision of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article shall constitute, and shall be considered, a separate offense.
(d)
The Municipal Court of Toccoa, Georgia shall have original jurisdiction upon any offense charged pursuant to this article.
(e)
In addition to the rights and remedies set forth herein, or as otherwise authorized by law, the city, and the Stephens County Board, of Health, retain and reserve the right to seek equitable relief, injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action or proceeding to protect, the public health, safety and welfare. Failure or refusal to pay any fee approved for the implementation and confirmation of compliance with the above-identified rules and regulations, including all permit and inspection fees, may result in suspension and/or revocation of any permit issued by the Stephens County Board of Health.
(f)
Violations of all DPH promulgated rules and regulations and all local board of health enactments identified herein may be prosecuted by an accusation or citation, with or without a prosecuting attorney; and the City hereby authorizes the city attorney or his designee to prosecute violations of this article. In addition, the Solicitor of Stephens County and his or her assistants shall also have the authority to prosecute all citations or accusations issued for violation of the rules and regulations identified and adopted in this article.
(g)
This article, and the enforcement and prosecution of this article by the city and the Stephens County Board of Health, and their authorized agent(s) or designee(s), does not in any way effect, estop, prescribe, regulate, limit, or in any way control or prohibit the Georgia DPH, and its agent(s) or designee(s), from initiating or undertaking any action or proceeding to enforce compliance with its rules and regulations.
( Ord. of 10-27-14, §§ VI—XII )
