PART I - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Charter of the City of Toccoa, being Act No. 392 of 1975, adopted by the General Assembly on April 17, 1975. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision derives unchanged from the original Charter. A uniform system of punctuation and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added for clarity. Section catchlines have been inserted for ease of reference.

Sec. 1. - City commission—Continuance as governing body.
The City of Toccoa, Georgia, shall continue to be governed by the city commission created and established by an act approved August 24, 1931 (Georgia Laws 1931, page 994), as amended, except as otherwise provided in this act.
Sec. 2. - Same—Qualifications; elections.
Each commissioner shall have been a citizen of the City of Toccoa for at least one year next preceding his election and qualification. In all city elections, no candidate shall be nominated for public office in any primary or elected to public office in any election unless such candidate shall receive a majority of the votes cast to fill such nomination or public office. All city elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the provisions of Code Title 34A, known as the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended, the commission shall have all powers and authority heretofore vested in the commission of the City of Toccoa, except as otherwise provided by this act, and such additional powers as are hereinafter provided by this act.
Sec. 3. - Same—Membership; terms; dates of election.
(a)
The city commission of the City of Toccoa shall consist of five citizens of the City of Toccoa who shall be elected at large by the electors of the entire city voting in the election therefor.
(b)  (1)  The term of office of the commissioner serving in Post 2 in office on January 1, 1991, shall expire on December 31, 1991. On the first Thursday in December, 1991, a commissioner serving in Post 2 shall be elected and shall serve for a term of office which shall expire on December 31, 1995, and until his successor is elected and qualified. Such commissioner shall take office on the first day of January immediately following his election. On the first Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 1995, and every four years thereafter, a commissioner serving in Post 2 shall be elected and shall serve for a term of office of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following his election.
(2)
The terms of office of the commissioners serving in Posts 3 and 5 in office on January 1, 1989, shall expire on December 31, 1989. On the first Thursday in December, 1989, the commissioners serving in Posts 3 and 5 shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office which shall expire on December 31, 1993, and until their successors are elected and qualified. Such commissioners shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election. On the first Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 1993, and every four years thereafter, the commissioners serving in Posts 3 and 5 shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election.
(3)
The terms of office of the commissioners serving in Posts 1 and 4 in office on January 1, 1990, shall expire on December 31, 1990. On the first Thursday in December, 1990, the commissioners serving in Posts 1 and 4 shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office which shall expire on December 31, 1995, and until their successors are elected and qualified. Such commissioners shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election. On the first Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, 1995, and every four years thereafter, the commissioners serving in Posts 1 and 4 shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their election.
(Ga. Laws 1989, (Act No. 76), page 3928)
Sec. 3-A. - Corporate limits.
(a)
In addition to the present territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described roads, streets, and rights of way, all of which are located in Stephens County, Georgia:
(1)
Andrews Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of the Westerly right of way line of Currahee Heights Road and the Easterly right of way line of Andrews Drive; thence in a Southwesterly direction 300 feet more or less to the intersection of Andrews Drive and Hilltop Lane; thence continuing through the intersection of Andrews Drive and Hilltop Lane 700 feet more or less to the end of Andrews Drive on the Easterly right of way that portion of Andrews Drive located within the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Andrews Drive as described herein.
(2)
Beaverbrook Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on the Southern right of way of Beaverbrook Drive at its intersection with the Northernmost right of way of Beaverbrook Circle, and this extending in a Southerly direction, bordering on the Western boundary Lots 55, 56, 57, and 58 of Foxdale Subdivision, bordering on the Southern boundary Lots 53 and 54 of the Foxdale Subdivision, and bordering on the Eastern boundary Lots 50, 51, and 52 of the Foxdale Subdivision and extending approximately 500 linear feet more or less to including the cul-de-sac at the Southernmost terminal of Beaverbrook Circle and all of the property within the right of way of Beaverbrook Circle.
(3)
Beaverbrook Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the public road which begins at the Eastern right of way of Foxdale Drive and continues in a Southeasterly direction bordering Lots 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 58, 59, and 29 of the Foxdale Subdivision on the Southernmost right of way of Beaverbrook Drive and bordering Lots 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, and 44 on the Northernmost right of way of Beaverbrook Drive and extending from the beginning point in an Easterly and Southeasterly direction the distance of 1,700.0 feet more or less and ending at a cul-de-sac adjacent to Lots 44, and 45 of the Foxdale Subdivision, and being all that property in the right of way of Beaverbrook Drive from its point of beginning to its point of termination as described herein.
(4)
Reserved.
(5)
Brady Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point at the intersection of Brady Street and the Eastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road and thence in an Easterly direction along Brady Street 399.7 feet more or less to the intersection of Brady Street and Delores Avenue; thence continuing along Brady Street 320 feet more or less to the intersection of Brady Street and Irene Street; thence continuing 150 feet more or less to the intersection of Brady Street and Ethel Street Circle; and thence continuing 395 feet more or less to the intersection of Brady Street and the Eastern portion of Ethel Street; thence continuing 228.74 feet more or less to the end of Brady Street, containing all that property within the right of way of Brady Street from the beginning point to the end of Brady Street as described herein.
(6)
Collier Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the point of the intersection of Collier Road and the present corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits being the centerline of Eastanollee Creek and thence continuing in a Southwesterly direction along Collier Road a distance of 2,600 feet more or less to the intersection of Collier Road and the Northeastern right of way of Georgia Highway 145 (Liberty Hill Road) and containing all that property between the Northwestern and the Southeastern rights of way of Collier Road from the point of its beginning to its point of intersection with Georgia Highway 145, as more particularly described herein.
(7)
Collier Mill Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Collier Mill Road and the Western right of way of Fernside Drive and extending Northwesterly 500 feet more or less to the end of Collier Mill Road; said tract of land containing all of the property between the Northern and Southern rights of way of Collier Mill Road, and including all the property located in the cul-de-sac at the end of Collier Mill Road as more particularly described herein.
(8)
Crestwood Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on the Northern right of way of U.S. Highway 123 (West Currahee Street) and its intersection with the Eastern boundary of Crestwood Drive, said point of intersection being 180.34 feet West of the intersection of Georgia Power Company Transmission Line and U.S. Highway 123, thence extending in a Northerly direction 236 feet more or less; thence continuing along the curve of Crestwood Drive in a Northwesterly direction 340 feet more or less; thence in a Westerly direction 90 feet more or less; thence continuing in a Westerly direction 90 feet more or less; thence in a Southerly direction 370 feet more or less to a cul-de-sac marking the termination point of Crestwood Drive, and containing all of that property located in the right of way of Crestwood Drive from its point of beginning to its point of termination as more particularly described herein.
(9)
East Currahee Street (U.S. Highway 123). All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of East Currahee Street and the present corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, thence continuing in an Easterly and Northeasterly direction along the right of way of East Currahee Street (U.S. Highway 123) 5,300 feet more or less to the intersection of East Currahee Street and Tugalo Street, said intersection being common to the lands of owned or formerly owned by LeTourneau.
(10)
Reserved.
(11)
Delores Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on the Northern right of way of Patsy Drive; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction 425 feet more or less to the intersection of Delores Street (Avenue) and the Southern right of way of Brady Street, and containing all the property within the right of way of Delores Street from its point of beginning to its point of ending as more particularly described herein.
(12)
Dogwood Lane. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Dogwood Lane and the Northern right of way of Skyline Drive and extending in a Northwesterly direction 314.7 feet more or less to the intersection of Dogwood Lane and the Northern right of way of Cherry Street; thence continuing 304 feet more or less to the intersection of Dogwood Lane as it ends on the Western right of way of Louis Road, and containing all of that property within the right of way of Dogwood Lane from its point of beginning to its point of termination as described herein.
(13)
Ethel Street Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on the Northern right of way of Brady Street, said point representing the Eastern right of way of Ethel Street Circle, and being 930 feet more or less along Brady Street to the Eastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road; thence continuing along Ethel Street Circle in a Northeasterly direction 495 feet more or less; thence in an Easterly direction 310 feet more or less; thence in a Southwesterly direction 470 feet more or less to the intersection of Ethel Street Circle and the Northern right of way of Brady Street, and containing all of that property within the right of way of Ethel Street Circle from its point of beginning to its point of termination as described herein.
(14)
Fernside Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Fernside Drive and the Northern right of way of Big A Road (Georgia Highway 17); thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction to the intersection of Fernside Drive and Foothill Road; thence continuing in a Northeasterly curvature to the intersection of Fernside Drive and Brookdale Road; thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction to the intersection of Fernside Drive and the Southeastern right of way of East Curahee Street (U.S. Highway 123); and extending from its point of beginning to its point of termination 10,500 feet more or less, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Fernside Drive from its point of beginning to its point of termination as described herein.
(15)
Fern Valley Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the Northern right of way of Fern Valley Drive; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction 950 feet more or less to a cul-de-sac, and containing all of that property within the right of way of Fern Valley Circle as described herein.
(16)
Fern Valley Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING on the Northwestern right of way of Fernside Drive and continuing in a Northwesterly direction along Fern Valley Drive 400 feet more or less; thence continuing in a Westerly direction 390 feet more or less to the intersection of Fern Valley Drive and Fern Valley Circle; thence continuing along Fern Valley Drive 900 feet more or less to the point where the Westernmost point of Fern Valley Drive coincides with the Easternmost point of Malik Drive, containing in total along Fern Valley Drive 1,650 feet more or less, and containing all that property within the right of way of Fern Valley Drive from its point of beginning to its point of coincident with Fern Valley Drive as described herein.
(17)
Foxdale Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Foxdale Circle and the Southeastern right of way of Foxdale Drive, the Southwestern corner of Foxdale Circle being 589 feet more or less along Foxdale Drive to the Northeastern right of way of Fernside Drive; thence continuing along Foxdale Circle 213 feet more or less to the beginning of a cul-de-sac, the cul-de-sac being the termination point of Foxdale Circle and containing all that property within the right of way of Foxdale Circle from the beginning point to the point of termination as more particularly described herein.
(18)
Foxdale Court. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING on the Northwestern right of way of Fernside Drive; thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction 306.3 feet more or less; thence continuing along Foxdale Court 300 feet more or less to a cul-de-sac which marks the end of Foxdale Court, and containing all that property within the right of way of Foxdale Court as the same is more particularly described herein.
(19)
Foxdale Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the Southern most intersection of Foxdale Drive and the Eastern right of way of Fernside Drive and thence continuing along Foxdale Drive in a Southeasterly direction circling in a Northeasterly direction and in a Northwesterly direction to the Northern most intersection of Foxdale Drive and the Southeastern right of way of Fernside Drive and extending 1,900 feet more or less, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Foxdale Drive as more particularly described herein, said right of way being 60 feet more or less along the entire length of Foxdale Drive.
(20)
Furman Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at a point on the Western right of way of Hilltop Lane and continuing in a Southwesterly direction along Furman Street 625 feet more or less; thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction 41.5 feet more or less to the intersection of Furman Street, Valley Drive and Madison Drive, and containing all that property within the right of way of Furman Street, as more particularly described herein.
(21)
Garland Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Garland Road and the present corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits being 580 feet more or less from the intersection of Garland Road and the Northern right of way of Tugalo Street; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction along Garland Road 300 feet more or less to the Northernmost intersection of Garland Road and the present corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, containing all that property within the right of way of Garland Road as described herein.
(22)
Hillcrest Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Hillcrest Drive and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits being located 340 feet more or less along Hillcrest Drive from the intersection of Hillcrest Drive and the Southern right of way of Tugalo Road, thence continuing in a Southeasterly direction along Hillcrest Drive 1,100 feet more or less to the Southernmost intersection of Hillcrest Drive and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa and containing all that property within the right of way of Hillcrest Drive as more particularly described herein.
(23)
Hilltop Lane. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Hilltop Lane and the Southern right of way of Collins Road; thence continuing in a Southeasterly direction along Hilltop Lane 2,150 feet more or less to the end of Hilltop Lane common to the Northern boundary of the lands of Dodd, thence beginning again at the Southern boundary of the lands of Dodd and continuing along Hilltop Lane 2,000 feet more or less to the end of Hilltop Lane and its intersection with Collins Road, and containing all that property within the right of way of Hilltop Lane as more particularly described herein.
(24)
Hilltop Lane Extension. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Hilltop Lane Extension and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa; thence extending in a Westerly direction along Hilltop Lane Extension 1,350 feet more or less to the point where Hilltop Lane Extension coincides with the beginning of Hilltop Lane, and containing all that property within the right of way of Hilltop Lane Extension as more particularly described herein.
(25)
Irene Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Irene Street and the Northern right of way of Patsy Drive, the Western right of way of Irene Street being 700 feet more or less along Patsy Drive to the Eastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction along Irene Street 450 feet more or less to the intersection of Irene Street and the Southern right of way of Brady Street, and containing all that property within the right of way of Irene Street as more fully described herein.
(26)
Reserved.
(27)
Reserved.
(28)
King Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of King Street and the Southern right of way of Collins Road; thence continuing in a Southeasterly direction 900 feet more or less to the end of King Street and containing all that property within the right of way of King Street as more particularly described herein.
(29)
Lewis Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Lewis Street and the Northern right of way of Dogwood Lane; thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction along Lewis Street 1,100 feet more or less to the intersection of Lewis Street and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits being 443 feet along Lewis Street to the Northern intersection of Rothell Road, and containing all that property within the right of way of Lewis Street as more particularly described herein.
(30)
Reserved.
(31)
Lovell Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of the Southern right of way of Lovell Road and Lovell Circle; thence continuing in a Southerly direction 410 feet more or less along Lovell Circle; thence in an Easterly and Northeasterly direction along Lovell Circle 1,500 feet more or less to the Westernmost intersection of Lovell Circle and Lovell Road, containing all the property within the right of way of Lovell Circle as more particularly described herein.
(32)
Lovell Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Lovell Road and the Western right of way of Georgia Highway 63 (Mize Road); thence in a Westerly and Southwesterly direction along Lovell Road 3,570 feet more or less to the intersection of Lovell Road and the Northwestern right of way of Lovell Circle and containing all that property within the right of way of Lovell Road as more particularly described herein.
(33)
Lovers Lane. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Lovers Lane and the Northwestern right of way of Tugalo Street (formerly Georgia Highway 106 and 184); thence in a Northwesterly direction along Lovers Lane 6,200 feet more or less to the intersection of Lovers Lane and Eastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road, and containing all that property within the right of way of Lovers Lane as more particularly described herein.
(34)
Madison Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Madison Drive and the Northwestern right of way of Hilltop Lane and extending in a Southeasterly direction 400 feet more or less to the intersection of Madison Drive and Valley Road, and include all the right of way of Madison Drive as more particularly described herein.
(35)
Malik Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Malik Drive and the Southeasterly right of way of Currahee Street (U.S. Highway 123) and extending in a Southeasterly direction; thence in an Easterly direction along Malik Drive 1,850 feet more or less to the point where Malik Drive coincides with the beginning of Fern Valley Road, to specifically include all the right of way of within Malik Drive as more particularly described herein.
(36)
Mize Road (Georgia Highway 63). All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Mize Road (Georgia Highway 63) and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa; thence extending in a Southeasterly direction; thence in a Southwesterly direction 8,800 feet more or less to the intersection of Mize Road and the Eastern right of way of Georgia Highway 13 (Toccoa By-Pass).
(37)
Myrtle Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Myrtle Street and the Southeasterly right of way of Tugalo Street; thence in a Southeasterly direction 1,100 feet more or less to the beginning of Myrtle Street where it intersects with the Northwesterly right of way of Hayes Street, and containing all the right of way within Myrtle Street as more particularly described herein.
(38)
Northside Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Northside Drive and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa; thence extending in a Northeasterly direction 269 feet more or less; thence continuing in a Northwesterly direction 280 feet more or less; thence continuing in a Southwesterly direction 210 feet more or less to the intersection of Northside Drive and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, and containing all of the property located within the right of way of Northside Drive as the same is more particularly described herein.
(39)
Patsy Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Patsy Drive and the Northeastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road and continuing in an Easterly direction along Patsy Drive 750 feet more or less to the end of Patsy Drive where it terminates with the Northeastern right of way of Irene Street, and containing all the property within the right of way of Patsy Drive as the same is more particularly described herein.
(40)
Persimmon Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Persimmon Street and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa; thence continuing in a Southwesterly direction along Persimmon Street 700 feet more or less to the end of Persimmon Street, and containing all the property located within the right of way of Persimmon Street as the same is more particularly described herein.
(41)
Rock Quarry Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Rock Quarry Road and the Northeastern right of way of Georgia Highway 17 (Falls Road); thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction 1,500 feet more or less to the intersection of Rock Quarry Road and the Southwestern right of way of Scenic Drive, and containing all that property within the right of way of Rock Quarry Road as the same is more particularly described herein.
(42)
Scenic Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the Eastern right of way of Prather Bridge Road; thence continuing in a Southwesterly and Westerly direction to the intersection of Scenic Drive and Green Valley Drive; thence continuing in a Westerly and Northwesterly direction along Scenic Drive; thence in a Southwesterly direction continuing along Scenic Drive for a total distance of 9,000 feet more or less to the intersection of Scenic Drive with the Northeastern right of way of Rock Quarry Road and containing all the right of way within the Scenic Drive as the same is more particularly described herein.
(43)
Skyline Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Skyline Drive and the Northwestern right of way of Rothell Road; thence continuing in a Southeasterly direction along Skyline Drive 5,800 feet more or less to the intersection of Skyline Drive and Rose Lane, and containing all that property within the right of way of Skyline Drive as the same is more particularly described herein. Additional references made to the plats of the Meadowbrook Subdivision contained in Plat Book 4, Page 140, and Plat Book 6, Page 33, Stephens County Records for a more complete and accurate description of the Skyline Drive and or Currahee Heights Road as the same is described.
(44)
South Pond Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of South Pond Street and Mize Road (Georgia Highway 63) and continuing in a Northeasterly direction along South Pond Street 950 feet more or less to the intersection of South Pond Street and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa and containing all the right of way within South Pond Street as more particularly described herein.
(45)
Sycamore Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Sycamore Circle and the Northeastern right of way of Rothell Road, said intersection being the Northernmost intersection of Sycamore Circle and Rothell Road; thence continuing in an Easterly direction 327.3 feet more or less to a point where Sycamore Circle makes a turn in a Southeasterly direction; thence continuing still in a Southeasterly direction 270 feet more or less to the end of Sycamore Circle and continuing at the point where Sycamore Circle turns in a Southeasterly direction and Southwesterly direction a total of 1,100 feet more or less to the point where Sycamore Circle intersects with the Northeastern right of way of Rothell Road; this point being the Southern most intersection of Sycamore Circle and Rothell Road and containing all the right of way of Sycamore Circle as the same is described herein. Reference further made to a Survey of the Meadowbrook Subdivision recorded in Plat Book 4, Page 140, Stephens County Records for a more complete and accurate description of all or a portion of the Sycamore Circle as the same is described herein.
(46)
Terrace Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Terrace Drive and the current corporate city limits of the City of Toccoa, said corporate limits lying 756 feet more or less East of the intersection of Terrace Drive and the Northeastern right of way of Boulevard Street; thence continuing along Terrace Drive in a Easterly direction 75 feet more or less to the intersection of Terrace Drive and the Southwestern right of way of Garland Drive, containing all of the property located within the right of way of Terrace Drive as the same is more particularly described herein.
(47)
Reserved.
(48)
Tugalo Street (f/k/a Georgia Highway 106 and 184). All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of the corporate limits of Tugalo Street and the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction along Tugalo Street adjacent to the lands of the Toccoa-Stephens County Airport; thence continuing in a Northeasterly direction to the right of way of the Southern Railway; thence continuing in an Easterly direction for a total of 20,130 feet more or less to the intersection of Tugalo Street and the Western right of way of U.S. Highway 123 (East Currahee Street) and containing all that property located within the right of way of Tugalo Street as the same is more particularly described herein.
(49)
Reserved.
(50)
Valley Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Valley Drive and the Northwestern right of way of Madison Drive and continuing along Valley Drive in a Northwesterly direction 350 feet more or less to the intersection of Valley Drive and the current corporate city limits of the City of Toccoa, containing all the property within the right of way of Valley Drive as the same is more particularly described herein.
(51)
Vernon Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Vernon Road and the Southeastern right of way of East Currahee Street (U.S. Highway 123) and extending in a Southeasterly direction 700 feet more or less to the end of Vernon Road and containing all of the property located within the right of way of Vernon Road as the same is more particularly described herein.
(52)
Wesley Circle. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Wesley Circle and the Eastern right of way of Fernside Drive; thence continuing in a Southeasterly direction along Wesley Circle 3,800 feet more or less to the end of Wesley Circle and containing all the property located within the right of way of Wesley Circle as the same is described herein.
(53)
Wesley Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Wesley Drive and the Eastern right of way of Fernside Drive and extending 450 feet more or less to the intersection of Wesley Drive and the Northwesterly right of way of Wesley Circle and containing all the property located within the right of way of Wesley Drive as the same is described herein.
(54)
White Pine Road. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of White Pine Road and the Westerly right of way of Big A Road (Georgia Highway 17) and extending in a Westerly direction along White Pine Road 4,300 feet more or less to the intersection of White Pine Road and the Eastern right of way of Rose Lane and containing all the property located within White Pine Road as the same is more particularly described herein.
(55)
Woodlawn Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the Eastern intersection of Woodlawn Drive and the current corporate city limits of the City of Toccoa and extending in a Northwesterly direction 750 feet more or less to the Western intersection of Woodlawn Drive and the current corporate limits of the City of Toccoa, and containing all the property within the right of way of Woodlawn Drive as the same is described herein.
(b)
All references to roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other references to public rights of way in subsection (a) of this section specifically include the current width of said public road, street, highway, drive, circle, or other rights of way and specifically includes the entire right of way.
(c)
All references to roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other references to public rights of way in subsections (a) and (b) of this section specifically include those roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other public rights of way as the same currently exist in the City of Toccoa and Stephens County, Georgia, and as the same are a part of the City of Toccoa public street system, the public street and road system of Stephens County, Georgia, the public street and road system of the State of Georgia and/or the United States, and any other street or road which has been designated in subsections (a) and (b) of this section and which has been dedicated to public purposes. A map, designated as "Official Map of the City of Toccoa With Extended Boundaries—1989" is on file in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Stephens County and the office of the clerk of the City Commission of the City of Toccoa and is specifically incorporated by reference for a more complete and accurate description of the location of the extended corporate limits as set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1989, (Act No. 235), page 4523; Ga. Laws 1994, Act. No. 1126, § 1)
Sec. 3-B. - Corporate limits extended.
(a)
In addition to the present territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following described roads, streets, and rights of way, all of which are located in Stephens County, Georgia:
(1)
Hayes Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Georgia Highway 17 (Big A Road) and proceeding in a Southwesterly and a Southerly direction a total of 4,740 ft., more or less, to the end of McArthur Drive on the Easterly right of way of McArthur Drive, and containing all the property within the right of way of Hayes Street as described herein.
(2)
Hemphill Street. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Hayes Street and Hemphill Street, said point beginning on the Easterly right of way of Hayes Street, and thence continuing in an Easterly distance of 770 ft., more or less, thence in a Northerly direction for a distance of 600 ft., more or less, to the intersection of Hemphill Street and Myrtle Street, said intersection being on the Southerly right of way of Myrtle Street, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Hemphill Street as designated herein.
(3)
McArthur Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of McArthur Drive and Tugalo Street, and beginning on the Westerly right of way of Tugalo Street, thence proceeding in a Westerly direction 930 ft., more or less, to the intersection of McArthur Drive and the Easterly right of way of Hayes Street, containing all of the property within the right of way of McArthur Drive as described herein.
(4)
Moreland Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Moreland Drive and Tugalo Street, and beginning on the Westerly right of way of Tugalo Street, thence continuing in a Southwesterly direction approximately 1,085 ft., more or less, to the intersection of Moreland Drive and Myrtle Street, said intersection being on the Northerly right of way of Myrtle Street, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Moreland Drive as described herein.
(5)
Morningside Drive. All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 440th District, G.M., Stephens County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows: BEGINNING at the intersection of Morningside Drive and Tugalo Street, and beginning on the Westerly right of way of Tugalo Street, thence continuing approximately 1,400 ft., more or less, to the intersection of Hayes Street, said ending point being the Easterly right of way of Hayes Street, and containing all of the property within the right of way of Morningside Drive as described herein.
(6)
Reserved.
(b)
All references to roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other references to public rights of way in subsection (a) of this section specifically include the current width of said public road, street, highway, drive, circle, or other rights of way and specifically includes the entire right of way.
(c)
All references to roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other references to public rights of way in subsections (a) and (b) of this section specifically include those roads, streets, highways, drives, circles, and other public rights of way as the same currently exist in the City of Toccoa and Stephens County, Georgia, and as the same are a part of the City of Toccoa public street system, the public street and road system of Stephens County, Georgia, the public street and road system of the State of Georgia and/or the United States, and any other street or road which has been designated in subsections (a) and (b) of this section and which has been dedicated to public purposes. A map, designated as "Official Map of the City of Toccoa With Extended Boundaries—1991" is on file in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Stephens County and the office of the Clerk of the City Commission of the City of Toccoa and is specifically incorporated by reference for a more complete and accurate description of the location of the extended corporate limits as set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ga. Laws 1991, Act No. 170; Ga. Laws 1994, Act. No. 1126, § 2)
Sec. 4. - City commission—Oath.
Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, each commissioner of the City of Toccoa shall take and subscribe, before some judge or justice of the peace, the following oath, which shall be entered on the minutes of the commission:
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully demean myself as a commissioner of the City of Toccoa during my continuance in office; that I will discharge the duties of the office to the best of my ability; that in the enactment of legislation I will have due regard for the charter of the City of Toccoa, the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, and of the United States of America; and I do further swear that I have not, either in the general election or party primary, in which I was a candidate, directly or indirectly expressed or implied any promise of support to any person for any office in the government of the City of Toccoa, nor have I influenced my election by the unlawful use of money or other things of value, or by the use of intoxicants. I do further swear that I will not knowingly permit my vote in the election or appointment of any person to a position in the city government or on the passage or adoption of any ordinance before the commission to be influenced by fear, favor, affection, reward or the hope thereof, but in all things pertaining to my said office I will be governed by my convictions as to public good. So help me God."
Sec. 5. - Same—Election of mayor; powers and duties.
At the first meeting held during each calendar year, the commission shall elect one of the commissioners as mayor of the City of Toccoa. The commissioner so elected shall continue to hold the title of mayor for one year thereafter, and successors shall be elected by the commission for each year. The mayor shall have no more authority than any of the other commissioners, except that he shall act as chairman at all meetings of the commission, shall, upon approval by the commission, sign the minutes of such meetings, shall act as mayor of said city on all ceremonial occasions, and shall have such other authority and duties as hereinafter provided. He shall be ex officio a member of all boards of which the mayor of said city is now ex officio a member.
Sec. 6. - Same—Powers and duties; compensation.
The city commission shall be strictly a legislative body. The said commission shall pass all the ordinances for the government of the city, fix the tax rate, license fees, and do and perform all necessary work of a legislative character for the successful government of the city. The mayor, vice-mayor, who shall be annually elected by the commission from its membership, and commissioners shall be compensated for their services as provided by the city commission consistent with general law.
Sec. 7. - Same—Election of clerk; powers and duties.
The commissioners shall elect a clerk of the commission, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the commission. Said clerk shall receive such salary as the commission shall fix, shall have charge and custody of the city records, shall attend all meetings of the commission, shall keep accurate minutes of all their proceedings, and said clerk shall keep in the office provided therefor all oaths taken by him and all bonds of officers and employees, shall keep a record of all elections and appointments to office, and shall perform such other duties as may be provided by this act, or as may be imposed by the commissioners, not inconsistent herewith.
Sec. 8. - Same—Removal of members.
Any or all of said commissioners may be removed from office at any time by recall by the following procedure: If as many as one-fourth of the qualified voters of the City of Toccoa, as shown by the voters' list of the last city election, shall present a written petition to the clerk, naming the commissioner or commissioners sought to be recalled and the reason for same, the clerk shall at once publish a notice in the official newspaper, stating that such a petition has been filed and that an election will be held on a named date in accordance with said petition. Such notice shall be published once a week for four (4) weeks, and said election shall be held as soon as the same can be legally done, but not less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days after the filing of said petition for recall with the clerk. The existing laws of said city relative to the opening and closing of registration books, preparation of registration lists, selecting of managers, etc., shall apply in said election, except no person affected by said petition for recall shall take any part in naming any registrar, manager, or clerk for said election, the clerk of the commission naming said managers and clerks in the event all of said commissioners are sought to be recalled. The tickets for said election shall have printed thereon: "Shall Commissioner ___________ (naming the commissioner) be recalled?" To the left thereof there shall be placed the words "yes" and "no", together with appropriate squares to the left of each for the convenient insertion of a cross or check mark. The results shall be reported by the managers as in other elections; and if a majority of those voting in such election vote in favor of the recall, such office shall become vacant from the time the results are announced to the commission. The vacant office shall be filled at an election held as soon as the same can be legally done, and the successor shall serve the unexpired term of the party recalled. No person removed by recall, or who resigns after a petition for recall has been filed against him, shall be eligible for election to said commission or appointment to any city office until after the expiration of the term for which he was originally elected. In the event, however, that all commissioners shall be recalled at the same election, they shall nevertheless continue to hold office until their successors shall be elected and shall qualify. In the event that for any cause there shall be a vacancy in the office of one or more commissioners, the commissioner or commissioners remaining in office shall perform all the duties and shall possess all the power and authority of the commission until the vacancy or vacancies shall be filled. In the event, for any cause, there shall be a vacancy in the office of all of said commissioners, the governor of the state shall appoint all commissioners, who shall hold the offices until said vacancies shall be filled by an election as herein provided for. In case of death, resignation, removal from office or vacation from office by removal from said city (and removal shall operate to create a vacancy just as if there should be a formal resignation) of any commissioner, the clerk of the commission shall proceed to call an election to fill such vacancy, and such election shall be called and held as in the case of an election held to fill a vacancy caused by a recall election as in this act provided.
Sec. 9. - City manager—Appointment.
The commission shall select and appoint a manager for said city within thirty (30) days after their election and qualification, and fix his salary to be paid in monthly installments, which salary shall be fixed at the time of his qualification, but which may be changed at any time by the commission. Such manager shall be a citizen of the United States not less than twenty-five (25) years of age and shall have a bachelor's degree or equivalent in public administration. The city commission shall select and appoint such manager and shall perform such other duties as may be provided in this act or as may be imposed by the commission not inconsistent herewith. Said manager shall be subject to removal from office at any time by a vote of the majority of the commission.
Sec. 10. - Same—Powers and duties.
(a)
The manager must devote all his working time and attention to the affairs of the city. He shall not be interested directly or indirectly in any business enterprise in said city, or in any person or persons contracting with or making sales to said municipal corporation. He shall have the appointment, subject to confirmation by the commission, of all heads of departments of said city, except the clerk and the recorder [municipal judge]. The manager shall have the right, without the consent of the commission, to appoint employees below the grade of heads of departments. The manager shall be responsible for the efficiency of each department of the city government (except in the cases of the clerk and recorder), and shall from day to day inspect the workings of each department. He shall have an office at the city hall, and shall keep his office open at reasonable times to be fixed by the city commission, during which all residents of the city shall be free to appear and make complaints against the operation of any department of the city government.
(b)
Reserved.
(c)
At least thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, which shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 from and after July 1, 1975, the manager must submit to the commission for its consideration a budget of proposed expenditures for that fiscal year, showing in as much detail as practicable the amounts allotted to each department of the city government, and the reason for such estimated expenditures. No part of any amount allotted to any department shall be expended on account of any other department, except upon the consent of the commission. The manager must make a full written report to the commission on the first of each month showing the operation and the expenditures of each department of the city government for the preceding month. The manager shall have the right to attend all meetings of the commission and to discuss with the commissioners all matters coming before the commission, but shall have no vote thereon.
(Ord. No. 5-2005, § 1, 5-9-05)
Sec. 11. - City commission meetings.
The commission shall meet at least twice each month in the city hall, unless providentially prevented, at such hour as shall be fixed by it. The hour must be fixed, and shall not be changed except after ample notice stating the hour to which changed. The commission may meet more often as may be adjudged necessary for the public good. All such meetings shall be public and open to all the residents of the city except as otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 12. - Audit of city's books and records.
The books and records of said city shall be audited at least once every twelve (12) months by a certified or registered public accountant employed for this purpose by the commission, and such auditors or accountants shall make written report of the results of such audits. The fees and expenses of such auditors and accountants shall be paid out of the city funds. A synopsis of such audit showing income and expenses shall be published in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements are published within two (2) weeks after the approval of such audit by the city commission.
Sec. 13. - Code of ordinances.
The commission shall keep the existing city code current by update supplements at least biannually. A copy of such code, duly certified as being a true copy by the clerk of the commission, shall be received in evidence in all courts of this state as if the code itself had been properly introduced in evidence.
Sec. 14. - Nonapplicability of Charter.
Ordinances now of force in said city shall not be affected by this act, except when any such ordinance shall be in conflict with any of the provisions hereof.
Sec. 15. - Municipal court.
The recorder's [municipal] court shall be presided over by a judge, who shall be designated as recorder [municipal judge], and who shall have all the power and authority in said court and in the conduct thereof, and in trying and punishing offenders against the laws or ordinances of said city, as now given the other presiding officers in said recorder's [municipal] court. The recorder [municipal judge] shall be a licensed attorney authorized to practice law in the State of Georgia. He shall be elected by the commission for a term of two (2) years, but shall be subject to removal at any time by a vote of the majority of the commission. Before removal, however, written charges must be preferred against him, setting out in detail the nature of the charges against him, which charges must be signed by one or more of the commissioners. The recorder [municipal judge] must be furnished with a copy of such charges, and of the time when same will be heard, which must not be less than five days after a copy of such charges shall have been furnished him. Such hearing shall be public, and the recorder [municipal judge] shall have the right to be present thereat and to call the witnesses in his own defense; but the action of the commission in removing or refusing to remove the recorder [municipal judge] after such hearing or after he is given the opportunity to be heard shall be final, and there shall be no appeal from the action of the commission. In case of the disqualification, illness, absence from the city or vacancy in office of the recorder [municipal judge], a judge of a state court of the State of Georgia or a licensed attorney, other than the city attorney who shall be disqualified, selected by the commission may act as recorder [municipal judge] and shall have all the power and authority of the recorder [municipal judge] while acting as such. The clerk of the commission shall be ex officio clerk of recorder's [municipal] court, and shall perform all the duties and have all the authority therein now possessed by the clerk of said city. At least two (2) sessions of the recorder's [municipal] court shall be held each month, and as often as the recorder [municipal judge] or acting recorder may see fit. The present law governing the taking of appeals and certioraries from the recorder's court shall continue of force. The recorder [municipal judge] shall receive such salary as the commission shall fix. Record keeping for the recorder's [municipal] court shall be the responsibility of the city clerk.
Sec. 16. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 5-2005, § 1(b), adopted May 9, 2005, repealed former section 16 in its entirety which pertained to the sale of public property and derived from General Assembly Act No. 392 of 1975.
Sec. 17. - Ad valorem taxes.
All persons owning property within the city limits of the City of Toccoa shall be subject to pay an ad valorem tax to said city thereon, and the lien for said tax shall attach as of January first of each year. The present laws and procedure for the collection of taxes, the issuance of executions, and other provisions pertaining to taxes shall remain of full force and effect.
Sec. 18. - City departments.
(a)
The following shall constitute the various departments of the city government of said city and the titles of the heads thereof:
[1]
Police department (including regulation and management of the city prison), the head of which shall be designated as chief.
[2]
Department of finance, the head of which shall be designated as director of finance.
[3]
Fire department, the head of which shall be designated as chief.
[4]
Department of law, the head of which shall be designated as city attorney.
[5]
Public works (including inspection of buildings, care of streets, drains, bridges, public buildings, and personal property belonging to the city, cemeteries, etc.), the head of which shall be designated as director of public works.
[6]
Water and sewer, the head of which shall be designated as director of utilities.
[7]
Gas, the head of which shall be designated as gas superintendent.
[8]
Public records, the head of which shall be the clerk of the commission.
(b)
The commission may from time to time on the recommendation of the city manager create other departments and may define the duties pertaining to each department. The commission may also reorganize any department or departments of the city and may alter the structure of departments or transfer functions from one department or subdivision thereof to another.
Sec. 19. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 5-2005, § 1(c), adopted May 9, 2005, repealed former section 19 in its entirety which pertained to the city personnel board and derived from General Assembly Act No. 392 of 1975.
Sec. 20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 5-2005, § 1(d), adopted May 9, 2005, repealed former section 19 in its entirety which pertained to salaries and derived from General Assembly Act No. 392 of 1975.
Sec. 21. - Bonds.
The commission may from time to time require all of the officials and employees of the city to give bond for the faithful performance of their duties, and may require them to take proper oaths of office.
Sec. 22. - Powers, duties of commission clerk.
The clerk of the commission shall issue all executions for taxes and for other amounts owing to the city, and he shall keep a record thereof, and shall keep all other city records and perform such other duties as may be required of him by the commission.
Sec. 23. - Chief of police.
The chief of police shall be ex officio marshal of the said city, and shall perform all duties imposed on the marshal by law, and such other duties as may be required by the commission.
Sec. 24. - Director of finance.
(a)
The city manager shall nominate and the city commission shall confirm the appointment of a director of finance. Such director of finance shall have at least a bachelor's degree in business administration with a major in accounting or the equivalent experience in municipal finance. The director of finance shall serve under the supervision and direction of the city manager and shall hold office at the pleasure of the commission. He shall receive such salary as the commission shall fix. He shall see that the accounts of the city and its departments and other agencies are kept in accordance with generally accepted principles of governmental accounting. He shall see that all funds of the city and its agencies are properly received and deposited and properly disbursed in accordance with its budget and the provisions of this charter and general law. He shall see that available funds of the city and its agencies are profitably invested as directed by the city commission. He shall keep the commission, the city manager, the city clerk and the other officers of the city advised of the financial condition of the city and its agencies. The city commission shall require that the director of finance be bonded for the faithful performance of his duties in an amount to be determined by the city commission, the cost of which bond shall be paid out of city funds. He shall perform such other duties as may be provided by this act, or as may be imposed by the commission or the city manager, not inconsistent herewith.
(b)
The following specific duties are also transferred to the director of finance:
(1)
Charge of all purchases of every kind and description for the city, which shall be upon his written order. Any sales made to the city except upon such written order may be declared invalid by the commission.
(2)
The making of all payment of city funds, by drawing a written request in duplicate, one of such request to be kept by the director of finance for his records and the other furnished to the clerk, who shall issue to the person designated a voucher check for the amount stipulated, such check to be signed by the clerk and the director of finance. In the absence or disability of the clerk, the mayor, or in his absence or disability the vice-mayor, shall sign such checks, and in the absence or disability of the director of finance, the city manager shall sign such checks, and in the absence of the city manager, the mayor, or in his absence, the vice-mayor, shall sign such checks. All voucher checks shall be signed by two (2) of the aforementioned persons and in no case shall the same person sign any voucher check twice.
(Ord. No. 78-005, 3-13-78; Ord. No. 79-303, 8-27-79; Ord. No. 5-2005, § 1(e), 5-9-05)
Sec. 25. - Quarantine power.
The commission may by resolution or ordinance adopted at any meeting thereof, and to take effect at once if so provided in the resolution, exercise all power and authority in declaring a quarantine and in enforcing same.
Sec. 26. - General city powers.
(a)
The City of Toccoa, acting by and through its city commission, shall have the right, power and authority to construct, repair, maintain, install, distribute, sell and furnish water, water facilities, sewage service, sewer facilities, natural gas lines and mains and natural gas facilities to customers, persons, firms and corporations located without the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa. The City of Toccoa is hereby expressly authorized to exercise the power of eminent domain for the purpose of acquiring all rights, easements, and property necessary to furnish such facilities and services.
(b)
The commission is authorized to assess the cost of laying water mains, pipes and appliances of its system of waterworks on each side of the road in which such mains, pipes and appliances are located outside the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 27. - Governmental immunity.
Governmental immunity granted to agents, employees and officers of the City of Toccoa shall extend to acts of such agents, employees and officers that occur outside the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa if such acts are authorized under the laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 28. - Fire protection; fire department.
(a)
The City of Toccoa may enter into agreements with the governing authority of Stephens County or with the owners of property outside the city whereby the city fire department will provide fire protection for property beyond the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa.
(b)
In addition, in any case in which property within the city may be endangered by fire occurring outside the city, the City of Toccoa Fire Department shall be authorized to assist in extinguishing such fire.
(c)
Any call from beyond the corporate limits of the city shall be answered by assistance from the fire department only upon the determination of the chief of the fire department or senior officer thereof present that the absence from the city of fire personnel and equipment will not constitute a hazard to the property within the city.
(d)
The commission shall by ordinance establish procedures for the implementation of this section.
Sec. 29. - Agreements, etc., with other governmental units.
(a)
The City of Toccoa may enter into contracts or agreements with Stephens County in order to execute any joint exercise, or the contractual exercise by the city for the county or by the county for the city, of any administrative or governmental power, function, right, privilege, or immunity of local government, except where prohibited by law.
(b)
The City of Toccoa shall likewise have the authority to enter into contracts and agreements with the State of Georgia and the United States Government or any agency or departments of said governments or any public agency, public corporation or authority now or hereafter created for future services or for the performance of any administrative or governmental power, function, right, privilege, or immunity of local government, except where prohibited by law.
Sec. 30. - General legislative powers.
The commissioners shall have authority to pass ordinances or resolutions, and impose penalties for the failure to comply with same, for the preservation of peace and good order, the prevention of vice and immorality; and shall have authority to disperse disorderly assemblages; to prevent and suppress all gaming and gaming houses, and places of ill fame or houses kept for immoral purpose, to license, tax, regulate, and restrain or prohibit all billiard rooms, pool rooms, tenpin alleys or other such alleys, inns, taverns, hotels, restaurants, lunch stands, or other places for public entertainment; to license, tax, regulate, and prohibit itinerant physicians and vendors of medicines or other articles; to direct the location and regulate the operation and maintenance and management of public bath houses or bathing pools or public playgrounds or other places of amusement, and require the same to be closed if deemed expedient; to preserve the health of the citizens of the said City of Toccoa by the adoption of such sanitary rules and regulations as may be proper and expedient; and to pass such regulations as are proper for the general welfare of the said city.
Sec. 31. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the City of Toccoa shall remain as provided by existing laws, and the authority heretofore granted to the City of Toccoa not herein repealed shall continue of force, and the inhabitants of the City of Toccoa, Georgia, as its limits now are, or may hereafter be established, shall continue to be a body politic and corporate to be known and designated as the City of Toccoa, and the corporate existence, identity, present territorial limits, the jurisdiction of the City of Toccoa both within the corporate limits and beyond same, with the corporate rights, powers, and privileges conferred, and all duties, obligations, and liabilities imposed by law shall be preserved unto said city except as altered or amended by this act, and as such body politic said city shall have perpetual succession, have and use a corporate seal, and make and amend rules, regulations, bylaws, resolutions, and ordinances for its government and the exercise of its corporate powers, not in conflict with this act, the other acts granting authority to said city, the Constitution and laws of Georgia and of the United States of America.
Sec. 32. - Regulations, licensing businesses, occupations, etc.
(a)
The power is hereby granted to the city to provide by ordinance for the registration and licensing of any trade, business, occupation, vocation, profession, and any and every other undertaking pursued for the purpose of personal gain or profit of whatever nature, engaged in or carried on within the limits of the city, and regardless of whether or not the subject has an office or establishment within the city.
(b)
The city commission is authorized to fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing and revoking licenses, provided that this authority is subject to the Constitution and laws of the United States and the State of Georgia.
(c)
This power is conferred for the purpose of regulation under the police power of the city and for the purpose of raising revenue for the operation of the city government through the imposition of a tax or fee for the privilege of operating within the city. This authority extends over individuals, partnerships, associations and corporations, and their agents.
Sec. 33. - Approval of Charter amendment.
After the approval of this act by the governor, or after it otherwise becomes law, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent of the City of Toccoa to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting section 3 of this act to the electors of the City of Toccoa for approval or rejection. The superintendent shall set the date of such election for Thursday, June 12, 1975. The call for said election shall be issued at least thirty (30) days but not more than sixty (60) days prior to the date thereof. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two (2) weeks immediately preceding the date thereof, in the official organ of the City of Toccoa. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
EXPAND
[ ]
[ ] YES
NO "Shall Section 3 of the Act increasing the number of commissioners of the City of Toccoa to five and providing for the election of the city commissioners be approved?"
  All persons desiring to vote for approval of section 3 of said act shall vote "Yes", and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of section 3 of said act shall vote "No". If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of section 3 of said act, it shall become of full force and effect, otherwise it shall be void and of no force and effect.
The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Toccoa. It shall be the duty of the superintendent to hold and conduct such election. It shall be his further duty to certify the results thereof to the secretary of state.
Sec. 34. - Effective date.
Except for the provisions of section 3 of this act, this act shall become effective upon the approval of this act by the governor or upon its otherwise becoming law. If section 3 of this act is approved, at the referendum election provided for in section 33, said section shall be effective for the purpose of the 1975 city election and shall be effective for all purposes on January 1, 1976. If said section 3 of this act is rejected at said referendum election, said section 3 shall be null, void and of no force and effect, and in that event, it is the intention of the General Assembly that the governing body [city commission] of the City of Toccoa shall continue in existence as heretofore provided by the charter of said city in the same manner as if said section 3 had never been enacted.
Sec. 35. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 36. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
