DIVISION 10. - ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES

Sec. 82-380. - Notification of violation.
Whenever the superintendent finds that any industrial user has violated, or is violating, any provisions of this article dealing with wastewater permitting or any other applicable provisions of the codes of the city as contained in this article, on a wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, the superintendent or his agent may serve upon said user written notice of the violation. Within ten days of the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted to the superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-381. - Consent orders.
The superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders issued pursuant to section 82-383 below.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.2), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-382. - Show-cause hearing.
The superintendent may order any industrial user which causes or contributes to violation of this article or wastewater permit or order issued hereunder to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action and the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any principal executive, general partner or corporate officer. Whether or not a duly notified industrial user appears as noticed, immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.3), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-383. - Compliance order.
When the superintendent finds that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate this article or a permit or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and management practices.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.4), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-384. - Cease-and-desist orders.
When the superintendent finds that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate this article or any permit or order issued hereunder, the superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
(a)
Comply forthwith; or
(b)
Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.5), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-385. - Administrative fines.
Notwithstanding any other section of this article, any user who is found to have violated any provision of this article or permit and orders issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount up to at least $1,000.00 per violation. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. Such assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service charge and the Superintendent shall have such other collection remedies as may be provided by the ordinances of the city and the laws of this state. Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall constitute a lien against the individual user's property. Industrial users desiring to dispute such fines must file written request for the superintendent to reconsider the fine within ten days of being notified of the fine. Where the superintendent believes a request has merit, he shall convene a hearing on the matter within 15 days of receiving the request from the industrial user.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.6), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-386. - Emergency suspensions.
(a)
The superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or wastewater permit of an industrial user whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, the POTW or the environment.
(b)
Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the superintendent shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The superintendent shall allow the user to recommence its discharge when the endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings set forth in section 82-387 are initiated against the user.
(c)
An industrial user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the superintendent prior to the date of the hearing described in paragraph (b) above.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.7), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-387. - Termination of permit.
Significant industrial users proposing to discharge into the POTW must first obtain a wastewater discharge permit from the city. Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter [article] or a wastewater discharge permit or order, or any applicable state and federal law, is subject to permit termination:
(a)
Violation of permit conditions;
(b)
Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge;
(c)
Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater constituents and characteristics; or
(d)
Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling. Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed termination of their wastewater permit and be offered an opportunity to show cause under section 82-382 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 10(10.8), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-388—82-399. - Reserved.
