ARTICLE V. - DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Duties of purchasers of gold bullion, gold dust, etc., O.C.G.A. § 12-4-120; junk dealers, O.C.G.A. § 43-22-1 et seq.; dealers in precious metals and gems, O.C.G.A. § 43-37-1 et seq.; dealers in used watches, O.C.G.A. § 43-49-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-111. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Precious metals shall include any item of gold or silver content, or class rings, silver dollars, necklaces, wedding bands, watch gold, dental gold, gold rings, silver rings, silverware, silver sets, silver coins, diamonds, old foreign coins, or any other items which are deemed to have valuable metal or stone content.
Precious metals dealer means a person engaged in the business of buying precious metals, whether for cash or trade, and whether or not a fixed place of business is maintained for such purposes.
(Code 1969, § 13-71; Ord. No. 13-1999, § 1, 10-11-99)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-112. - Applicability of provisions.
This article shall have no application to financial institutions chartered under state or federal banking laws; nor to security firms duly licensed under federal or state laws; nor to transactions between such institutions or firms and their customers.
(Code 1969, § 13-77)
Sec. 22-113. - Penalty.
Any person who shall willfully violate any provision of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished in accordance with the provisions of section 1-13. Each and every item of goods for which a record is required to be kept and for which no record of transaction exists, in violation of this article, shall be deemed a separate transaction and each failure of any person to keep a record of each transaction as required by this article or to comply with any other provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1969, § 13-76)
Sec. 22-114. - Records required to be kept; inspection.
Every person engaged in the business of buying precious metals, whether for cash or trade, shall keep a well-bound record book or register which shall contain a copy of every bill of sale issued by the dealer. The record book shall be kept on a daily basis, and in addition to the above-mentioned bill of sale, it shall show all transactions wherein and whereby precious metals are received by such person. The record book shall contain columns appropriately entitled for the recording of such information as shall be required in this article, and specifically, shall contain columns entitled "amount paid," "article," "description of article," "marks," "name of selling party," "method of identification," "address" and "description of person selling." The chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall be entitled to inspect the book or register at any reasonable time at the location of the business. In addition, all precious metals dealers shall complete a form, to be furnished by the city police department, which will provide the police department with a description of the item or items sold, and the seller's physical description, thumb print, address, telephone number, and either driver's license number or social security number.
(Code 1969, § 13-72; Ord. No. 13-1999, § 3, 10-11-99)
Sec. 22-115. - Contents of record book or register.
The information to be entered under the column titles of the record book or register shall be as follows:
(1)
Amount paid. In this column shall be entered the amount paid for the article by a dealer in precious metals.
(2)
Article. The entry in this column shall be a description of the class of goods within which the purchased items belong. Examples are: coins, rings, silverware, etc.
(3)
Description of article. Here a concise description of the goods shall be given.
(4)
Marks. In this column any identifying marks, initials, monograms, brand name or personalized features shall be entered to further describe the goods.
(5)
Name of party selling. Here shall be entered the name of the person presenting the goods for sale. The name shall be substantiated and verified by the dealer by examination of the driver's license.
(6)
Method of identification. The entry here shall be the number appearing on the driver's license, social security card or other identification source of the person selling the articles.
(7)
Address. The address of the person selling the goods shall be placed in this column.
(8)
Description of person. A description of the person selling the goods shall be made in this column indicating sex, race, height and weight.
(Code 1969, § 13-73)
Sec. 22-116. - Duty to retain goods for waiting period.
No precious metals of any kind whatsoever received by the dealer shall be sold or permitted to be removed from the place of business of the dealer for a period of 48 hours from the time of receiving them and all such goods shall be retained in the original condition in which they were received during the 48-hour period.
(Code 1969, § 13-74)
Sec. 22-117. - Notification to police of altered goods and lost or stolen items.
If any articles sold to any person regulated by this article, which normally carry or have a serial number or other means of identification, which shall have the serial number or other means of identification removed, mutilated, defaced or destroyed or melted down, such fact shall be immediately reported by the dealer to the chief of police or his duly authorized agent. It shall be the duty of every person holding a license under this article to report to the police any articles sold to him which he has reason to believe were stolen or lost and found by the person attempting to sell it to the license holder.
(Code 1969, § 13-75; Ord. No. 13-1999, § 2, 10-11-99)
Sec. 22-118. - Persons under eighteen.
No precious metals dealer covered by this article shall have any business dealings with any person less than 18 years of age, except with the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor to each particular transaction. No license shall be issued to any person who is less than 18 years of age. No precious metals dealer shall employ a person less than 18 years of age to assist him or her in a business.
(Ord. No. 13-1999, § 4, 10-11-99)
Secs. 22-119—22-140. - Reserved.
