DIVISION 7. - COMPLIANCE MONITORING

Sec. 82-350. - Inspection and sampling.
The city shall have the right to enter the premises of any industrial user to ascertain whether the purpose of this ordinance, and any permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user is complying with all requirements thereof. Industrial users shall allow the superintendent, or his representatives, ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
(a)
Where an industrial user has security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the industrial user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city, state, and EPA will be permitted to enter without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific responsibilities.
(b)
The city, state, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the industrial user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
(c)
The city may require the industrial user to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the industrial user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
(d)
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the industrial facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the industrial user.
(e)
Unreasonable delays in allowing city personnel access to the industrial user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 7(7.1), 10-13-08)
Sec. 82-351. - Search warrants.
If the superintendent or his representative has been refused access to a building, structure or property or any part thereof, and if the superintendent or his representative has demonstrated probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this article or that there is a need to inspect as part of a routine inspection program of the city designed to verify compliance with this ordinance or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then upon application by the city attorney, the municipal court judge of the city shall issue a search and/or seizure warrant describing therein the specific location subject to the warrant. The warrant shall specify what, if anything, may be searched and/or seized on the property described. Such warrant shall be served at reasonable hours by the superintendent or his representative in the company of a uniformed police officer of the city.
(Ord. No. 18-2008, § 7(7.2), 10-13-08)
Secs. 82-352—82-369. - Reserved.
