DIVISION 7. - C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

Sec. 94-250. - Intent.
The purpose of this district is to preserve the downtown commercial district and provide locations for shopping facilities that are commonly found in the retail commercial uses of the historic downtown orientation. The CBD (central business district) would also provide for loft-style living and other residential concepts associated with a downtown city. Such facilities should be located to allow for minimal lot line requirements, but not to forsake the public safety and general welfare. In addition, the frequency and distribution patterns reflect the downtown orientation, without jeopardizing the historic significance of the central business district.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-251. - Required conditions.
Retail sales, displays of merchandise, and storage must be within an appropriate enclosure (building, or structure) as specified by law or ordinance. However, the commission may grant an exception to this requirement as a conditional use where it finds that enforcement would create an unreasonable hardship. No single business activity shall occupy more than 40,000 square feet of building area. Specified residential uses will be permitted in the C-1 district as conditional uses after review and recommendation by the planning commission and a formal approval by the city commission set forth in this Code. This mixed-use environment will help preserve the historic character of the downtown area and allow for a greater degree of flexibility in dealing with existing properties.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-252. - Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted:
(1)
Appliance stores, including repairs and services, but not appliance salvage and/or storage yards.
(2)
Art and antique stores, art galleries, museums and institutions of a similar nature.
(3)
Bakeries—Retail.
(4)
Health clubs, spas, and other similar activities.
(5)
Bicycle stores.
(6)
Book, stationery, camera, photographic supply stores, and newsstands.
(7)
Confectionery stores.
(8)
Clothing and shoes, millinery, dry goods and notion stores.
(9)
Ice cream parlors.
(10)
Drugstores.
(11)
Furniture and home furnishings stores.
(12)
Florist, nurseries, and gift shops.
(13)
Grocery, fruit, vegetable, meat markets, delicatessens, catering stores, and supermarkets.
(14)
Hardware and paint stores (no outside uncovered unfenced storage areas).
(15)
Jewelry stores.
(16)
Barbershops and beauty shops.
(17)
Dressmaking and tailoring shops.
(18)
Laundry and dry cleaning pickup stations.
(19)
Retail and repair shoe shops.
(20)
Garden supply stores (no outside uncovered unfenced storage areas).
(21)
Any other retail sales or service establishments similar in character to those permitted; however fortuneteller, psychics, junkyards or auto wrecking establishments or any other business where the materials sold are not housed within a building are prohibited.
(22)
Professional, and business office, that include banks and financial institutions.
(23)
Accessory buildings and uses located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incidental to the permitted or conditional use.
(24)
Cafes, grills, lunch counters, and restaurants.
(25)
Motels and hotels;
(26)
Offices and display rooms for wholesaling establishments, provided no warehousing facilities are located on the premises.
(27)
Newspaper offices and printing establishments incidental to such offices
(28)
Public buildings and structures.
(29)
Automobile sales.
(30)
Banks and other financial institutions.
(31)
Parking lots.
(32)
Brewpubs.
(33)
Microbrewery.
(34)
Tattoo studio.
(35)
Retail cigar shop.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08; Ord. No. 7-2017 , §§ 22, 23, 12-11-17; Ord. No. 4-2018 , § 4, 7-9-2018; Ord. No. 4-2019 , § 3, 9-9-19)
Sec. 94-253. - Conditional uses.
Structures and land may be used under specific conditions for only the following purposes:
(1)
Gas stations and automobile service stations, but not including repair garages and salvage yards. Provided that all structures and buildings, except principal use signs, and including service tanks shall be placed not less than 25 feet from any side or rear property line, except where such side or rear property lines abut a street, in which case the setback shall be that required for such streets measured from the right-of-way. All buildings or structures, including gasoline pumps and storage tanks, except principal use signs, shall comply with the setback requirements of any abutting street. If the automobile service station is located on a corner lot, the means of ingress and egress provided shall be not less than 15 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines. Ingress and egress shall be arranged and designed so as to minimize the interference with the flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian.
(2)
Auction houses.
(3)
Print shops.
(4)
Theaters and cinemas, but not including drive-in theaters.
(5)
Churches and other places of worship, attendant educational and recreational buildings, and their appurtenant accessory uses (e.g., cemeteries, mausoleums, etc.).
(6)
Kindergartens, day care centers and homes, and nursery or play schools.
(7)
Golf, swimming, tennis, or country clubs; public and private community clubs or associations; athletic fields; parks and recreational areas. The size and intensity of the proposed use as it relates to adjacent land uses shall be a determining factor.
(8)
Private clubs, and fraternal order of lodges.
(9)
Variety retail shops.
(10)
Hospitals, clinics, and convalescent or nursing homes.
(11)
Temporary uses, including sale of Christmas trees, carnivals, church bazaars, and sale of seasonal fruits and vegetables from roadside stands, but such use is not to be permitted for a period to exceed two months in any calendar year.
(12)
Dry cleaning and laundry establishments, provided that such operation is for local service only and no work is done on the premises for other similar establishments or pickup stations.
(13)
Colleges, public and private schools, and libraries.
(14)
Recreational, amusement, and entertainment facilities.
(15)
Funeral homes, not including crematoriums.
(16)
Self-serve car washing facilities, provided they are located on an arterial street.
(17)
Bed and breakfast inns, provided all parking can be maintained on the lot and not along connector and secondary streets.
(18)
Residential development shall be permitted only on the second floor of existing buildings, and any buildings hereafter constructed, in the central business district as described herein.
a.
Type of residential development.
1.
Single-family units.
2.
Two-family units.
3.
Multifamily units.
b.
Parking. In the central business district, no off-street parking shall be required for three or fewer dwelling units on a property. For more than three dwelling units, off-street parking shall be provided for the property at the rate of 1.25 spaces per dwelling unit (rounded up to the nearest whole number of spaces). For parking regulation affecting all other uses, see the parking regulations in section 94-482.
c.
Square footage requirements. Each residential dwelling unit shall contain a minimum of 400 square feet per occupant.
One-bedroom, 600 square feet;
Two-bedroom, 750 square feet.;
Three-bedroom, 900 square feet.
(19)
Taxicab businesses.
(16)
Parking garages (automobile).
(17)
Pet grooming.
(18)
Loft-style dwellings provide they are located on the second level of a building.
(19)
Bus, railroad, and air terminal facilities.
(20)
Public, parochial and private schools and colleges when located on a site of at least five acres and including covenants [convents], monasteries, dormitories and other related living structures when located on the same site as the school or college.
(21)
Artisanal furniture manufacturing and/or construction, refinishing, and repair, provided that no such business shall have more than two employees, and shall meet all environmental regulations promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Georgia Environmental Protection Division, or any other federal, state or local environmental agency with regard to the application and storage of solvents used in the business.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08; Ord. No. 10-2011, § 1, 8-8-11)
Sec. 94-254. - Itinerant vending.
No itinerant vendors shall be allowed in the central business district. Itinerant vendors are defined herein to include any person, whether a resident of the city or not, who has no permanent place of business within the city and who engages in a transient business in one temporary fixed place of business or sells goods from a vehicle, truck, van, trailer or other type of conveyance.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-255. - C-1 limited location malt beverage and wine pouring license.
In addition to the uses authorized in section 94-252, restaurant businesses within the area defined in section 2-96 of chapter 2, article III, division 3 (the boundary definitions of the downtown development area of the city) as presently enacted, or hereinafter amended, shall be authorized to obtain from the city a license for the privilege of selling malt beverages and/or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises. This license shall be limited to eating establishments within the downtown central business district, and governed by the specific requirements of chapter 6 of this Code regarding alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-256. - Setbacks and regulations.
EXPAND
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.) None
Minimum lot dimensions
Width None
Depth None
Minimum Yards
Front setback from street right-of-way or property line None
Side 15 ft.
Rear 12 feet if not abutting an alley, and 20 feet if abutting a residential district
Maximum Building Height
Feet 50 ft.
Minimum Heated Floor Area
None
  (Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Secs. 94-257—94-274. - Reserved.
