ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 82-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 5-2008, § 1, adopted April 14, 2008, deleted § 82-1, which pertained to interference with utility property and derived from Code 1969, § 22-1.
Sec. 82-2. - Opening fire hydrant.
If any person shall open any fire hydrant, fireplug, gate, or lift or remove the cover of it, without license of the city commission or other city official, except in case of fire, and then only by direction of the fire department, the offender shall be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 22-2)
Sec. 82-3. - Repair of leaking service pipes.
If the service pipes, stopcock or pipes through the premises of any person shall become leaky for want of repairing, it shall be the duty of such persons to have them repaired, and upon failure to have them repaired within 48 hours after notice, the supply of water may be stopped to the location by the city.
(Code 1969, § 22-4)
Sec. 82-4. - Water and sewer specifications.
There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation, alteration, removal, location and maintenance of all water and sewer systems of the city, that certain work entitled Specifications for Installation of Water and Sewer Lines—City of Cedartown. These specifications are dated June 10, 1985, and are incorporated in this article by reference, and adopted save and except such portions thereof as may be hereafter deleted, modified or amended. A copy is currently on file at the office of the city clerk. This specifications document is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this article; and the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation of water and sewer lines, and all related work concerning same, within the corporate limits of the city or any adjacent area to the corporate limits that may be served by water and sewer systems of the city.
(Code 1969, § 22-17)
Sec. 82-5. - Water and sewer testing services.
(a)
Permission required. Any person who desires to use the city's employees, agents or servants for any laboratory services, testing facility or other similar testing; using equipment of the city for water and/or wastewater testing, must first obtain the permission of the city manager in writing to conduct such testing. Further, the party shall execute such contracts, waivers or other documents as might be deemed appropriate by the city to indicate that such testing is accomplished by the city on an independent contract basis for such requesting party pursuant to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section.
(b)
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)
Testing means any procedure, review, analysis or similar method by which water and/or wastewater may be analyzed, reviewed or processed to obtain certain measurements or results which may be required by federal or state regulations governing the defined parameters of such procedures.
(2)
Independent contractor shall be construed to mean that any testing done for any requesting party pursuant to this section shall be upon contract service by the city. The city shall act independently, and without liability, for such testing and not as an agent, employee or servant of the requesting party.
(3)
Designated test means that testing procedure accomplished by the city on behalf of any requesting party as set forth in the contractual agreement between the city and the requesting party.
(4)
Requesting party means any person who may engage the city to conduct any water and/or wastewater testing.
(c)
Independent contracting status of testing and analysis. Any designated testing procedure shall be accomplished under such terms, conditions and agreements as may be required by the city manager. Any such party requesting the testing shall execute an agreement which, among other things, provides that the city accomplishes this testing on an independent contract basis for the party. Further, the party shall hold the city harmless from any claim, injury or damage as a result of improper testing, improper analysis or for other negligent acts. It is understood and agreed that the city is only accomplishing this testing as an accommodation for other public or private agencies, firms and corporations and does not undertake to assume any liability, responsibility or risk of loss for this testing.
(d)
Rates and charges. Attached to any agreement for testing shall be a schedule of all rates, charges and other reimbursable expenses to be paid to the city for testing. The rates to be charged shall be promulgated by the city manager and approved by the city commission (see schedule of fees and charges as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission). Rates are subject to change with 60 days' notice to any requesting party.
(Code 1969, § 22-18; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-6. - Water and sewer tap charges.
(a)
Water and sewer tap charges shall be in the amounts as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges to this Code.
(b)
The following regulations shall govern the construction and installation of any water and/or sewer taps which may occur upon either of these systems of the city:
(1)
Each construction unit is required to have an individual tap for water and/or sewer service. All taps shall be charged on a per unit basis. Tap fees shall be charged when a physical connection is made between any newly constructed or existing unit and the city's water and/or sewer infrastructure. Additionally, a constructed unit which imparts an additional water demand or waste load to the water or sewer system shall be charged a tap fee, even if an existing tap is used. For purposes of this regulation, "unit" is defined as a dwelling house, apartment, or other structure which is being constructed or tied-on to the water or sewer system.
(2)
On each two-inch or larger water tap or larger than four-inch sewer tap, a minimum charge as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges shall be assessed upon the tap application being made. Once construction and all expenses have been calculated pursuant to the schedule of fees and charges, if the cost exceeds the minimum amounts as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges, the actual cost shall be billed and due and payable immediately upon billing. Failure to pay shall result in a levy of other fines and/or penalties pursuant to the applicable codes of the city.
(3)
All tap sizes, type of materials used in any tap and related construction of the tap shall be within the discretion of the appropriate employees of the city. No water or sewer tap shall be allowed outside of the corporate limits of the city without the prior approval of the city commission.
(4)
If the appropriate official of the city should determine that engineering drawings, reviews of construction or similar requirements are necessary in order to appropriately make any construction taps for water and sewer, all such costs and/or expenses shall be paid by the applicant.
(Code 1969, § 5-17; Ord. No. 25-2001, § 1, 12-17-01; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-7. - Right of entry; right to terminate service.
Designated city personnel shall have the right to enter upon the premises, including private property, where city water and/or sewer services are used, provided or distributed for the general purposes of enforcing this chapter and specifically for purposes of inspecting pipes, fixtures, settings, readings and repairing meters, commencing or discontinuing service or similar general activities enforcing rules and regulations applicable to water and sewer use within the city. Water and/or sewer service may be terminated, or temporarily stopped, in case of public emergency, necessity for repair, extension of the systems or for similar such necessary action by the city. Reasonable notice, as may be practicable, shall be given to all persons affected by periods of interrupted service. Any person denying city agents, servants and/or employees a right of entry for purposes of this section shall be punished, upon conviction, as set forth in section 1-13.
Sec. 82-8. - Liability for insufficient water and/or sewer service.
The city shall not be liable for inadequate, insufficient or other types of failure of water and/or sewer service to any person being supplied such services by the city. This shall include any alleged water pressure problems, stoppage or interruption in sewer lines, system failures and similar service problems which may arise in the water and/or sewer systems of the city.
Sec. 82-9. - Other unauthorized use of utility services.
No person shall permit a third party, without the consent of the city, to use any service of the city by virtue of an improper tap, tying on to service or similar action. Any party violating this section shall be punished, upon conviction, as provided in section 1-13.
Sec. 82-10. - Irrigation meters.
The charge for setting and connecting the irrigation meter within the city shall be as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. No. 12-2012, § 2, 8-13-12; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Secs. 82-11—82-20. - Reserved.
