ARTICLE IV. - EXCISE TAXES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-201. - Inspection and audit of books and records.
The books and records of all wholesalers selling or delivering any wine and/or malt beverages to retailers made subject to the taxes levied in this article and the books and records of all retailers made subject to the taxes levied in this article shall be open for inspection and audit by the agents of the city, to ensure compliance with this article, and it shall be unlawful for any person to deny any authorized agent of the city reasonable access to such books and records. Such books and records shall, for wholesalers, contain information showing deliveries of any of such beverages to persons upon whom the tax hereby assessed and levied is imposed separately, and the monthly reports of such wholesalers shall show deliveries made to each retailer, separately, so that sales of any of the beverages described in this section may be identified with respect to each retailer upon whom the tax is imposed by this section.
Secs. 6-202—6-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80.

Sec. 6-221. - Levy.
There is hereby imposed upon and levied against every licensed wholesale dealer in malt beverages an excise tax, in addition to the excise taxes presently levied by the state as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 6-222. - Payment.
The excise tax levied in this division and imposed upon licensed wholesalers is levied and imposed with respect to malt beverages sold or distributed by such wholesalers in the city to retailers doing business in the city. The excise tax provided for in this division shall be paid by such licensed wholesale dealers to the city on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of by such licensed wholesale dealer. Every licensee responsible for the payment of the excise tax imposed by this section shall file a monthly report itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container, for the month. Each wholesale licensee shall report and remit to the city, on the tenth of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such beer and malt beverages are sold or disposed of, the tax imposed by this division.
Secs. 6-223—6-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - WINE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.

Sec. 6-251. - Levy for wholesale sale.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail wine license fee required, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges, per liter of wine, which shall be paid to the city on all wine sold, displayed or stored in the city. The per liter tax shall be prorated and a proportionate tax is hereby imposed at like rates on all fractional parts of a liter.
(b)
The tax shall be paid to the city by the wholesale distributor on all wines sold to retailers in the city as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping or in any way delivering wine to any such retailer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the same, together with a summary of all deliveries, to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following.
(c)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the city a summary of all purchase invoices for wine sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth of each month following such purchases. Said invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(d)
The city shall have the right to audit, and to require production of records from, each wholesaler supplying retailers in the city and each retailer so supplied.
(e)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesaler to sell, ship or deliver in any manner, any wine to a retail dealer without collecting such tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retail dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any wine on which such tax has not been paid.
(Code 1969, § 3-47; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 6-252. - Levy for per drink sale.
There is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate per liter as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges, which shall be paid to the governing authority on all wine sold by the drink within the corporate limits of the city. Such tax shall be paid to the governing authority by the wholesaler on all wine sold to wine retail consumption dealers in the city, as follows: Each wholesaler selling, shipping or in any way delivering wine to any wine retail consumption dealer shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery to each retail dealer on or before the 15th day of the month following. The tax per liter shall be prorated so that all containers of wine shall be taxed on the basis of per liter rate as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any wholesaler to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any wine to a retail consumption dealer without collecting such tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any wine retail consumption dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any wine on which such tax has not been paid.
(Code 1969, § 3-54; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Secs. 6-253—6-299. - Reserved.
