ARTICLE III. - WATER SERVICE

Sec. 82-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Unit means and includes, in determining the minimum charge to be paid for water service, any household, family unit, apartment, industrial plant, factory, office or other place of doing business. A separate unit shall, as may be practicable, be placed upon all separate meters. When water is supplied to more than one party through a single tap, then each individual party shall pay the unit charge for any multi-rate meter service. Any place of business shall be considered a commercial unit for purposes of this section.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 82-32. - Meters furnished, owned by city.
All meters shall be furnished and owned by the city. Any unauthorized use, tampering or alteration of the meter, box and all associated apparatus shall be unlawful and punishable upon conviction as provided in section 1-13.
(Code 1969, § 22-10)
Sec. 82-33. - Ownership of meter; meter failures.
The stopcock, box and meter at or near the curb, or other portion of the city right-of-way, shall be purchased by the property owner, but remains the property of the city. The city shall keep the same in a good state of repair, and replace any of such apparatus, so as to ensure that the meter accurately sets forth the reading for a rate of charge for the property owner. Should the meter be damaged, fail to properly register or otherwise be defective, the customer shall be charged the average daily consumption for the three previous meter readings before the apparatus was damaged.
(Code 1969, § 22-11)
Sec. 82-34. - Installation of meter on private property.
Wherever it becomes necessary to put water meters on the private property of the person using them, and they are put there without objection on the part of the property owner, it is understood that the water meters are to remain the property of the city, and the city by its proper officers shall have authority to remove them at any time.
(Code 1969, § 22-12)
Sec. 82-35. - Discontinuation of service for rules violation.
The supply of water may be withheld from all premises when the ordinances, rules or regulations adopted by the city commission have in any manner been violated, and the supply shall not again be turned on except upon a rectification of the cause of withholding the service, and satisfactory assurance given that no further cause of complaint shall arise.
(Code 1969, § 22-13)
Sec. 82-36. - Enforcement authority of employees.
The employees of the water department shall have the same power and authority as regular police officers of the city for the purpose of enforcing this article.
(Code 1969, § 22-14)
Sec. 82-37. - Fluoridation of water system.
The city commission is hereby authorized to provide equipment and installation facilities in order to fluoridate the potable public water supply of the city. The city may enter into such contracts with the department of natural resources, or other state agencies, to provide for the funding of the cost of any and all fluoridation procedures.
(Code 1969, § 22-16)
Sec. 82-38. - Water deposit requirement.
The city shall be required to collect a deposit from the occupants of any water unit, as defined in this article, prior to furnishing such premises with any water from the city water system. All deposits collected shall be accomplished pursuant to the deposit fee schedule as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1969, § 22-31; Ord. No. 1-2014, 6-2-14; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 82-39. - Water service application; liability for payment.
Water service applications shall be made by the owner, lessee or authorized agent for the commencement, reinstatement or transfer of water service. The person making application for water service shall be liable for all applicable charges for sewer, water, garbage and other included services which may be a part of city service fees. The applicant shall be the only person authorized to discontinue water service to the location, and no applicant shall be permitted to apply for service in the name of a third party, unless the applicant is an employee, authorized agent, or relative of said third party.
(Ord. No. 20-1998, § 4, 6-8-98)
Sec. 82-40. - Water shortages; restrictions.
The city commission, city manager or other appropriate designated official of the city may place necessary restrictions upon the types, times and method of use of water within the city system as may be appropriate in times of shortage, scarcity, drought, contamination of the system or other similar emergency. Any person who fails or refuses to comply with such restrictions shall be guilty of a violation of this section and punishable pursuant to the provisions of section 1-13. Further, in addition to this punishment, after notice to the appropriate applicant for water service, service to the unit may be discontinued.
Sec. 82-41. - Cross connection; agreement for water supply.
The city shall be authorized, by agreement as deemed appropriate by the city commission, to enter into cross connection agreements, contracts, leases, licenses or similar written understandings involving the selling of water service, purchase of water service, joint ventures for water service or any other matters concerning water use or service as may be deemed appropriate by the commission with other public and/or private agencies.
Sec. 82-42. - Fire hydrant meter deposit.
The city shall be required to collect a deposit for the use of any fire hydrant meters. The fire hydrant meter deposit will be refundable upon the return of the meter. All deposits collected shall be accomplished pursuant to the deposit fee schedule as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. No. 1-2014, 6-2-14; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Secs. 82-43—82-60. - Reserved.
