Chapter 90 - VEHICLES FOR HIRE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 22; traffic and vehicles, ch. 78.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 90-1—90-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TAXICABS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 90-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Chauffeur's permit means written authority given by the chief of police pursuant to the provisions of this article to any person to drive or operate a taxicab on the public streets of the city.
Permit means the written authority granted by the city manager under this article to engage in the taxicab business in the city, as such business is defined by the provisions of this article.
Streets, public streets means any of the public streets, boulevards, avenues, drives or alleys in the city.
Taxicab means any motor-driven vehicle for transportation for hire of passengers and which is operated wholly or principally within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1969, § 23-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 90-32. - Liability insurance coverage.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any taxicabs within the city without having first obtained and filed with the city manager a comprehensive general liability policy issued by a financially responsible insurance company authorized to do business in this state. A certificate of insurance must be provided to the city manager. Such insurance company shall possess a certificate issued by the state and shall have an agent in the city and be approved by the city manager.
(b)
Each comprehensive general insurance policy shall provide such protection for injuries to persons, property, medical payments coverage and similar required coverages as are approved by the city manager. The city manager shall have the authority to promulgate whatever rules, regulations or requirements for insurance coverage he might deem necessary to ensure compliance with this article. A statement shall be contained indicating coverage may not be canceled without notification to the city manager. Upon any notification of cancellation, the permit granting taxicab service shall immediately be revoked.
(c)
Every taxicab while in service within the city shall conspicuously place evidence of insurance coverage, and the permit granted pursuant to this article, in any operable vehicle.
(Code 1969, § 23-10)
Sec. 90-33. - General rules and regulations for operation of taxicabs.
The following rules and regulations are adopted for the operation of taxicabs. The city manager shall further have the right to adopt such other written rules, regulations and procedures that might be necessary to effectuate the intention of this article. These regulations are as follows:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any taxicab to maintain a shift for drivers being on duty to operate the taxicab for more than 12 hours in any one 24-hour day.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any operator of a taxicab to drive such taxicab upon the public streets of the city without the name of the business conspicuously painted on such taxicab in letters which are clearly visible.
(3)
Each taxicab shall have posted in a conspicuous place therein a schedule of rates for the transportation of persons within, or as necessary, outside the corporate limits of the city.
(4)
All persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city shall have drive-in terminals or stations at which terminals or stations all vehicles shall be parked while not engaged in the actual transportation of passengers.
(5)
All operators of any taxicab shall adhere to all traffic laws, uniform rules of the road or other traffic regulations of the state or the city which apply to the transportation of passengers, and which specifically apply to the operation of vehicles upon the roadways of this state.
Secs. 90-34—90-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - OPERATOR'S PERMIT

Sec. 90-51. - Required.
No person shall engage in the business of operating a taxicab, or other taxicab transportation type services for hire within the corporate limits of the city, without having both a permit from the city and having paid an occupation tax pursuant to all applicable city ordinances.
(Code 1969, § 23-3)
Sec. 90-52. - Application; contents and related matters.
Applications for permits to operate a taxicab business shall be made to the city commission of the city on forms promulgated by the city. The information contained on the forms shall be as required by the city manager, and shall include a criminal background investigation of the applicant, proper insurance coverage as determined by the manager for vehicles used in the operation of the business, name of the individual person responsible for the business, references and other general background information. The city manager is hereby authorized to require such additional information, both by application form, and as might be necessary in connection with any information furnished, to have all the facts, circumstances and related material necessary to make a decision concerning the issuance or denial of a permit to operate a taxicab within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1969, § 23-5)
Sec. 90-53. - Investigation.
The city manager shall make or cause to be made an investigation, including any hearing deemed necessary as to each application for permit for the operation of such taxicabs, and in determining whether a permit shall issue, the city manager may investigate the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business of operating taxicabs; and also shall make or cause to be made an investigation in order to determine whether the demands of public convenience, necessity and safety justify the issuance of such permit.
(Code 1969, § 23-6)
Sec. 90-54. - Issuance; transferable upon consent of city manager.
If the city manager determines to grant a permit for the operation of such taxicab, he shall issue the applicant a permit provided for in this division, and such permit shall not be transferable except upon the consent of the city manager in writing.
(Code 1969, § 23-7)
Sec. 90-55. - Denial; notice to applicant.
If the city manager determines that the public convenience, necessity and safety does not justify the issuance of such permit, or that the insurance company or surety company with which the applicant has made arrangements to secure insurance as required by the provisions of this article is not a good and responsible insurance or surety company having an agent in the city, or that the provisions of the proposed policy or surety bond do not give ample protection to the public, or that the applicant is not a fit and proper person to conduct the taxicab business, then no permit shall be issued. Notice of the action of the city manager shall be given to the applicant, setting forth the reason for the refusal of the permit.
(Code 1969, § 23-8)
Sec. 90-56. - Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Whenever any person engaged in the taxicab business or any operator or driver of a taxicab within the city is found to be violating the provisions of this article or the laws of the state or of the United States, or any other law or ordinance of this city, the chief of police, with the approval of the city manager, and after full investigation thereof, may suspend the permit of any such person, operator or driver for such time as the city manager may determine up to and including the remaining part of the year in which the permit has been granted.
(b)
A copy of the suspension order issued by the chief of police, together with a copy of the report made pursuant to his investigation, shall immediately following such suspension be filed with the clerk of the city commission and such matter shall be placed upon the agenda for consideration of the city commission at its next meeting following such suspension date.
(c)
The person, operator or driver whose license is suspended shall have the right to request a hearing before the city commission by filing a request in writing with the clerk of the city commission within ten days following such suspension date. The hearing shall be held at the next regular meeting of the city commission.
(d)
If no hearing is requested, or after such hearing, the city commission may lift, stay, modify or enforce any suspension period in its discretion, or may revoke completely the permit issued.
(Code 1969, § 23-9)
Secs. 90-57—90-80. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CHAUFFEUR'S PERMIT

Sec. 90-81. - Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a taxicab upon the streets of the city unless such person shall have first obtained from the chief of police of the city a chauffeur's permit, as set forth in this division.
(Code 1969, § 23-12)
Sec. 90-82. - Qualifications of applicant; issuance by chief of police.
Any person having resided continuously in the city for not less than six months immediately preceding the making of application for chauffeur's permit, being 18 years of age or over, may make application with the chief of police of the city for a chauffeur's permit. It shall be the duty of the chief of police to make an investigation to determine the moral character and fitness of the applicant, and the knowledge of the applicant of the traffic ordinances of the city, and it shall be the duty of the chief of police, if the applicant be a person of good moral character and fitness and possesses sufficient knowledge of the traffic ordinances of the city, to issue such person a written permit, which permit shall be signed by the chief of police and shall be sealed with the corporate seal of the city, and shall contain the name, address, sex, race, age and signature of the person. The chief of police shall procure or cause to be procured fingerprints and two photographs of the applicant. One of the photographs shall be retained by the chief of police for the files of the police department, and the other shall be attached to the chauffeur's permit, if granted to the applicant.
(Code 1969, § 23-13)
Sec. 90-83. - Revocation or suspension.
(a)
The city manager shall have the authority to revoke or suspend any chauffeur's permit issued pursuant to this division, based upon the finding that any of the following violations have occurred:
(1)
Conviction by the permittee of a felony.
(2)
Conviction of driving a taxicab or other motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(3)
A determination that the permit holder is suffering from a contagious or communicable disease.
(4)
Improper use of a vehicle in violation of a "serious traffic offense," as that term is defined by state law.
(5)
The suspension of the chauffeur's permit, driver's license or similar driving privileges.
(6)
Violation of any provisions of this division, or other ordinances of the city which may affect operation of a taxicab service by the chauffeur, or the chauffeur's permit granted pursuant to this division.
(b)
All permits for a chauffeur's license shall be renewed as may be required for other licenses within the city.
(c)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city manager regarding the suspension or revocation of a license may appeal this action to the city commission within ten days. This appeal must be in writing, and shall be heard as soon as practicable by the commission. Failure to appeal within such time limit shall constitute a final decision by the city manager concerning action taken by him involving any chauffeur's permit.
(Code 1969, § 23-16)
Sec. 90-84. - Display in cab.
Every driver or operator of any taxicab operated in the city shall have displayed in such taxicab in a prominent place in the front thereof so as to be easily discernible by any person occupying such taxicab his chauffeur's permit.
(Code 1969, § 23-15)
