DIVISION 9. - CN-NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 94-290. - Intent.
The purpose of this district is to provide locations for neighborhood shopping facilities in which are found retail commercial uses which have a neighborhood orientation and which supply necessities usually requiring frequent purchasing with a minimum of consumer travel. Such facilities should be located so that their frequency and distribution patterns reflect their neighborhood orientation. In addition, such facilities should not be so large or so broad in scope of services as to attract substantial amounts of trade from outside the neighborhood commercial zone and should not be located in close proximity to other commercial areas.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-291. - Required conditions.
(a)
Retail sales, displays of merchandise, and storage must be within an appropriate enclosure (building or structure) as specified in the city's standard building and housing codes. However, the commission may grant an exception to this requirement as a conditional use where it finds that enforcement would create an unreasonable hardship. No single business activity shall occupy more than 40,000 square feet of building area.
(b)
Specified conditional uses will be permitted within the CN district after review and recommendation by the planning commission and a formal approval by the city commission. This mixed-use environment will help preserve the historic character of any existing neighborhoods and allow for a greater degree of flexibility in dealing with existing properties.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-292. - Permitted uses.
Structures and land may be used for only the following purposes:
(1)
Appliance stores, including repairs and services, but not appliance salvage and/or storage yards.
(2)
Art and antique stores, art galleries, museums and institutions of a similar nature.
(3)
Bakeries—Retail.
(4)
Health clubs, spas, and other similar activities.
(5)
Bicycle stores.
(6)
Book, stationery, camera, photographic supply stores, and newsstands.
(7)
Confectionery stores.
(8)
Clothing and shoes, millinery, dry goods and notion stores.
(9)
Ice cream parlors.
(10)
Drugstores.
(11)
Furniture and home furnishings stores.
(12)
Florists, nurseries, and gift shops.
(13)
Grocery, fruit, vegetable, meat markets, delicatessens, catering stores, and supermarkets.
(14)
Hardware and paint stores (no outside uncovered unfenced storage areas).
(15)
Jewelry stores.
(16)
Barbershops and beauty shops.
(17)
Dressmaking and tailoring shops.
(18)
Laundry and dry cleaning pickup stations, and self-service laundries.
(19)
Retail and repair shoe shops.
(20)
Garden supply stores (no outside uncovered unfenced storage areas).
(21)
Any other retail sales or service establishments similar in character to those permitted; however fortuneteller, psychics, junkyards or auto wrecking establishments or any other business where the materials sold are not housed within a building are prohibited.
(22)
Professional, and business office, that include banks and financial institutions.
(23)
Accessory buildings and uses located on the same lot or parcel of land as the main structure and customarily incidental to the permitted or conditional use.
(24)
Cafes, grills, lunch counters, and restaurants.
(25)
Motels and hotels;
(26)
Offices and display rooms for wholesaling establishments, provided no warehousing facilities are located on the premises.
(27)
Newspaper offices and printing establishments incidental to such offices.
(28)
Public buildings and structures.
(29)
Automobile sales.
(30)
Banks and other financial institutions.
(31)
Parking lots.
(32)
Within the C-N neighborhood commercial district, every use shall be so constructed, maintained and operated as not to be injurious or offensive to occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission or creation of noise, smoke, vibration, dust, electrical disturbance, toxic or noxious waste material, odor, fire and explosive hazard, glare or traffic generation.
(33)
Schools, public or private, and tutoring or educational programs operated as a substitute for, or in conjunction with any schools. It is the purpose and intent of this subsection to allow the above-described uses as a permitted use in C-N neighborhood commercial zoning districts within the city.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08; Ord. No. 8-2009, § 1, 7-13-09)
Sec. 94-293. - Conditional uses.
Structures and land may be used under specific conditions for only the following purposes:
(1)
Public utility structures and buildings, including electric and natural gas substations, telephone exchanges, and similar structures for the storage of supplies, equipment, or service operations, when properly screened.
(2)
Veterinary hospitals and clinics, pet shops, grooming or boarding houses, provided that any structure or outside area used for such purposes shall be a minimum of 100 feet from any residential district.
(3)
Minor shopping centers. The following guidelines govern construction of shopping centers:
a.
Shopping centers may exceed 40,000 square feet in gross floor area.
b.
Shopping centers shall be located along arterial, collector or secondary streets.
c.
Required green space and open space buffers, as required by this Code or the commission.
d.
Required green space and open space buffers, as required by this Code or the commission.
(4)
Group personal care homes and supportive living homes.
(5)
Motels, hotels and bed and breakfast facilities, provided that the number of rooms available for occupancy does not exceed 50.
(6)
Fast food restaurants.
(7)
Taxicab businesses.
(8)
Theaters, but not including drive-in theaters.
(9)
Professional and business offices that include banks and financial institutions.
(10)
Publicly-owned and operated buildings and lands.
(11)
Automobile service stations and gas stations, provided that all structures and buildings, except principal use signs, and including storage tanks, shall be placed not less than 25 feet from any side or rear property line except where such side or rear property lines abut a street, in which case the setback shall be that required for such streets measured from the right-of-way. All buildings or structures, including gasoline pumps and storage tanks, except principal use signs, shall comply with the setback requirements of any abutting street. If the automobile service station is located on a corner lot, the means of ingress and egress provided shall be not less than 15 feet from the intersection of street right-of-way lines. Ingress and egress shall be arranged and designed so as to minimize the interference with the flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian. Buffer zones shall be utilized between any automobile service station and neighboring residential property in accordance with this Code.
(12)
Efficiency apartments.
(13)
Single-family dwellings.
(14)
Two-family dwellings.
(15)
Multiple dwellings.
(16)
Loft-style dwellings.
(17)
Garages, mechanical.
(18)
Itinerant vendors and lunch wagons.
(Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Sec. 94-294. - Setbacks and regulations.
EXPAND
Minimum lot area (sq. ft.) None
Minimum lot dimensions
Width None
Depth None
Minimum Yards
Front setback from street right-of-way or property line Front yard: 40 feet
Side Side yard: 15 feet if any side yard is provided, and 20 feet if abutting a residential district.
Rear Rear yard: 15 feet
Maximum Building Height
Feet 50 ft.
Minimum Heated Floor Area
None for commercial; for any residential development the requirements of the R-4 residential district shall apply.
  (Ord. No. 20-2008, 12-8-08)
Secs. 94-295—94-304. - Reserved.
