ARTICLE X. - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
State Law reference— Disabled veterans and blind persons engaging in peddling, O.C.G.A. § 43-12-1; Georgia Charitable Solicitations Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 43-17-1 et seq.; peddlers and itinerant traders, O.C.G.A. § 43-32-1 et seq.; Transient Merchant Act of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 43-46-1 et seq.

Sec. 22-281. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Peddler means, for purposes of licensing and registration under this article, a person not having and maintaining a permanent and fixed place of business in the city who goes from place to place exhibiting goods, wares and merchandise of any description whatsoever, for the purpose of sale, either retail or wholesale. This definition is intended to include any person who is engaged in any type of itinerant or mobile business operation which actually sells any goods or merchandise whatsoever within the city.
Transient merchant or vendor means a merchant or vendor who is conducting business at a predetermined location for a brief period of time not to exceed 45 days.
(1)
No transient merchant shall apply for or be issued more than two transient merchant permits in any calendar year.
(2)
No transient merchant shall apply for or be issued more than one transient merchant permit more than once every six months from the date of the prior approval.
(Code 1969, § 13-25.1; Ord. No. 17-2012, 12-10-12)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-282. - Registration of peddlers.
(a)
Before offering or exposing any goods or merchandise for sale, the peddler shall first register, be approved and issued a license in accordance with the provisions of this article; provided, that the foregoing provision of this section shall not apply where a license is otherwise required in this article.
(b)
In addition to the licensing requirements of peddlers and solicitors under this article, applicants for a peddling or soliciting license shall complete a form to be provided by the city clerk. This form will require the applicant to describe the nature of the business, the item or items applicant wishes to sell, where the applicant intends to sell these items, the source of the items he wishes to sell, the applicant's criminal history, and a list of three references. Each applicant shall also submit to a criminal background check and business reference review to be performed by the chief of police of the city or his designee.
(c)
The chief of police shall make a recommendation to the city manager concerning the granting or denial of a peddler's license, not less than one day nor more than five business days from the time of the application. Any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved by a decision of denial by the city manager shall have the right to appeal this denial within ten days to the city commission, which shall conduct a hearing within 30 days on the denial of the license. The party denied a license may present evidence and witnesses in support of the granting of the license. The decision of the city commission shall be final subject to appeal to the superior court of the county.
(Code 1969, § 13-25.1; Ord. No. 5-1998, § I, 2-9-98)
Sec. 22-283. - Entry on private property.
The practice of going in, or otherwise entering, a private residence, private property, commercial establishment, or similar business or residence within the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of such private residence, private property, commercial establishment or similar business or residence for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and/or for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and punishable as a nuisance unless a license has been obtained pursuant to this article and any other applicable provisions of this Code and state law governing such selling activities.
(Code 1969, § 13-24)
Sec. 22-284. - Peddlers and solicitors near schools.
It shall be unlawful for any peddler, hawker or any other person to sell, offer for sale, or cause to be sold or offered for sale, within 500 yards of any public schoolhouse or campus in the city, any food or beverage of any kind; provided that this section shall not apply to any person dealing in food or beverages and having an established place of business conducted in a building, if such established place of business conducted in a building is conducted in accordance with the laws and ordinances of the city and is approved by proper health officers of the city, county and state.
(Code 1969, § 13-25)
Sec. 22-285. - Duty of police to enforce article.
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any person seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his peddler's license, and to enforce the provisions of this article against any person found to be violating the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 15-2012, § 1, 10-8-12)
Sec. 22-286. - License fee; exception.
(a)
The amount of the license fee shall be as set forth in the license fee schedule of the city as provided in section 22-25.
(b)
No fee shall be required of a person selling products of the farm or orchard actually produced locally by the seller.
(Ord. No. 15-2012, § 2, 10-8-12)
Sec. 22-287. - Peddler/transient merchant registration fee.
In addition to the fee to be paid for the license required, there is a background registration fee per employee per license as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges; for any renewals said fee shall be per employee per license as approved by the City of Cedartown Commission in the schedule of fees and charges. The purpose of this fee is to reimburse the city for a criminal records search on the individual applying for the license and administrative costs to ensure the protection of the public. No license shall be issued until these registration fees have been paid.
(Ord. No. 15-2012, § 3, 10-8-12; Ord. No. 7-2019 , § 2(Exh. A), 12-9-19)
Sec. 22-288. - Transient merchant permit requirements and restrictions.
(a)
A transient merchant permit may be issued by the city manager or his/her designee for the sale of merchandise or services at a location, whether it is in the interior or exterior of a structure if the following conditions are met:
(1)
Written permission of the property owner is provided;
(2)
Services are not provided and merchandise is not located within 50 feet of any street or roadway at the discretion of the city manager;
(3)
A sign (not portable) may be erected on the property, provided it does not exceed a total of 16 square feet in height, and provided it is not placed within 20 feet of any public right-of-way (sign permits may apply);
(4)
Adequate parking, ingress and egress are provided on-site or written permission from the adjoining property owner is obtained if such parking, ingress and egress are provided by an adjoining property; and
(5)
All other requirements set forth in this chapter are met.
(b)
Each transient merchant permit shall be valid for up to a maximum of 45 consecutive days.
(c)
No transient merchant shall apply for or be issued more than two transient merchant permits in any calendar year.
(d)
No transient merchant shall apply for or be issued more than one transient merchant permit more than once every six months from the date of the prior approval.
(e)
A given parcel of property, or any portion thereof, can only be used as a location for a permitted transient merchant for up to a maximum of 45 consecutive days in any calendar year.
(f)
No transient merchant permit shall be issued for a given parcel of property, or any portion thereof, more than once in any calendar year.
(g)
No transient merchant permit shall be issued for a given parcel of property, or any portion thereof, more than once every six months from the date of the prior approval.
(h)
No transient merchant permit shall be issued for a given parcel of property unless the sale of goods or services offered by the transient merchant would be an allowable use within the given parcel of property's zoning classification.
(Ord. No. 15-2012, § 4, 10-8-12)
Sec. 22-289. - Revocation of permit.
Permits issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked, suspended or probated by the city manager or his/her designee after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
(1)
Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the application for permit, or made in the course of carrying on his/her business as peddler or transient merchant;
(2)
Any violation of this article or this Code;
(3)
Conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude;
(4)
Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in connection with the selling of any article, merchandise, produce or food item;
(5)
Violations of the provisions of the county health department regulation applicable to holders of food permits;
(6)
Conducting the business of peddling in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public;
(7)
Conducting the business of a transient merchant in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public;
(8)
A person whose permit has been revoked may appeal the revocation as set forth in section 22-282(c).
(Ord. No. 15-2012, § 5, 10-8-12)
