Chapter 14 - BUSINESSES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5 et seq.

Sec. 14-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, a form IRS W-2, but not a form IRS 1099. An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, a form IRS W-2.
Location or office includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied for revenue purposes on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business in the city.
Occupation tax certificate means a document issued by the city acknowledging payment of the occupation tax.
Practitioners of professions and occupations means those individuals listed in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18), but does not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business if such business pays an occupation tax.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.1))
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 14-20. - Levied; limitations.
(a)
An occupation tax based upon the number of employees in the state is hereby levied upon businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city and, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, upon out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the city, but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state in accordance with the following schedule:
EXPAND
2 or less $ 75.00
3—10  125.00
11—25  200.00
26—50  250.00
51—75  300.00
76—100  350.00
More than 100  500.00
  (b)
The city shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax for each location of a business or practitioner.
(c)
A business or practitioner which is subject to an occupation tax by another local government and claiming an exemption from or limitation to the occupation tax imposed by this article shall submit documentation as to the current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and the basis of such tax.
(1)
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in the state provides to the city proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business' or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this occupation tax.
(2)
A business or practitioner with no location or office in the state shall only be required to pay occupation tax to the local government in the state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of the applicability of this subsection.
(3)
A business or practitioner which has locations in the state subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall only be subject to occupation tax by the city for the number of employees who are employed within the corporate limits of the city. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of current payment of the occupation tax of the other local government.
(4)
If an employee works for the same business or practitioner in more than one municipal corporation or county and the business or practitioner submits proof of this, the employee shall be counted as an employee in the city only if the city is the jurisdiction where such employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year.
(d)
If a business or practitioner commences business in the city on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The administrative fee shall not be reduced.
(e)
If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees, which are the basis of this occupation tax, will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees which are the basis of this occupation tax. If such estimate is not accurate, then, no later than January 15 of the following year, the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicting the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amount due and owing to the city for any reason. Any underpayment will be due upon filing the amended return.
(f)
Real estate brokers shall be subject to occupation tax pursuant to this article, only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.2))
State Law reference— Occupation tax authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-6, 48-13-7; taxation criteria, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10; taxation of real estate brokers, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-17.
Sec. 14-21. - Certificate.
Every business, practitioner and location subject to payment of the occupation tax shall post the occupation tax certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the occupation tax certificate shall be shown to any police officer (or other person charged with enforcing this article) upon request.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.3))
Sec. 14-22. - Practitioners of professions and occupations.
Practitioners of professions and occupations, as defined in this article, shall pay the occupation tax as set forth in section 14-20 or shall pay an occupation tax of $200.00 per practitioner. At such time as the practitioner first commences business in the city, the practitioner shall elect a method of taxation. Such election shall be changed for subsequent calendar years only by a written request filed by the practitioner on or before February 1 of the year in which the election is to be changed.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.4))
State Law reference— Taxation of certain professionals, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10(g).
Sec. 14-23. - Exemptions.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied on the following:
(1)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States, the state or a municipality or county of the state;
(2)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission and the state department of public safety;
(3)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.);
(4)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness;
(5)
Nonprofit, agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105;
(6)
Motor common carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15;
(7)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed or cottonseed meal or hulls in carlot lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355;
(8)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356 for persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in this state when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product, and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city;
(9)
Depository institutions pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93; or
(10)
Any business where the levy or such occupation tax is prohibited by any applicable law.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this article shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any way any franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.5))
State Law reference— Exempt businesses and practitioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6.
Sec. 14-24. - Evidence of state registration when required.
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43 by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before any city occupation tax certificate may be issued.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.6))
Sec. 14-25. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of an occupation tax certificate, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of the business shall do so before the registration is issued.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.7))
Sec. 14-26. - Filing returns; other information required or requested.
(a)
On or before January 1 of each year, an individual, business or practitioner subject to this article shall file with city clerk on a form approved by and available from the city a signed return attesting to the number of employees of such business or practitioner during the calendar year.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners doing business in the city shall submit to the city clerk or make available within the city within 30 days such information as may be required or requested by the city to determine the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or to facilitate levying or collection of the occupation tax fee.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.8))
Sec. 14-27. - Date due; penalty.
(a)
Any occupation tax fee due pursuant to this article shall be due and payable annually on January 31. In the event that any person commences business or initially engages in a regulated activity in the city after January 31 in any year, the tax shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business or regulated activity.
(b)
Any individual, business or practitioner subject to any occupation tax imposed by this article which is unpaid for 90 days after the date on which payment was due shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent of the tax due.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.10))
Sec. 14-28. - Enforcement; violations.
(a)
It is the duty of the city clerk to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, to perform all functions necessary to administer and enforce this article, and to summon violators of this article to appear before the municipal court. The city clerk may issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing.
(b)
The city clerk shall issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing. Such executions shall bear interest at the rate authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-2-40 or, if such statute should be repealed, at the rate of one percent per month. The lien shall cover the property of the individual, business or practitioner liable for payment of the delinquent occupation tax and become fixed as of the date and time the occupation tax became delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the city clerk upon the property of the delinquent tax payer located in the city. Sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, including penalty, interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by this Code, the city Charter and state laws. The defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the city Charter and the laws of the state in regard to tax execution.
(c)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to pay any occupation tax charged pursuant to this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(d)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to make a timely or truthful tax return or make available truthful and accurate information that the city requests or requires for determining the applicability or amount of occupation tax, or for levying or collecting such occupation tax, shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section 1-8.
(e)
All persons subject to the occupation tax imposed by this article shall be required to file for and pay such tax. For failure to do so, any officers or agents soliciting for or obtaining such person's business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons, businesses or practitioners who fail to obtain, make a return for or pay the applicable occupation tax.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.11))
Sec. 14-29. - Prior ordinance.
To the extent that any occupation taxes are owed pursuant to an ordinance passed prior to this article, such amount remains due and owing, and the provisions of that prior ordinance will remain in effect with respect to such unpaid occupation taxes, until such time as they are paid in full.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.12))
Secs. 14-30—14-46. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - REGULATORY FEE

Sec. 14-47. - Levied; certificate.
(a)
Businesses and individuals engaging in the occupations or businesses set forth in all articles contained within this chapter subsequent hereto must pay a nonrefundable regulatory fee in accordance with the rate set forth therein.
(b)
If a business or individual initially engages in an activity regulated by the city on or after July 1 in any year, the regulatory fee for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the regulatory fee for the entire year.
(c)
Every business, individual, and location subject to the payment of a regulatory fee levied by this article shall display a current regulatory fee certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the regulatory fee certificate or an unaltered duplicate of such certificate shall be shown to any police officer or city clerk upon request.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.9))
Secs. 14-48—14-67. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE COMPANIES

Sec. 14-68. - Enforcement.
(a)
The fees and taxes levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as the other taxes of the city.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation, including the officers, agents or employees of the same, violating the provisions of this article, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in section 1-8. Any person so convicted shall be subject to the revocation of the license granted herein.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.31))
Sec. 14-69. - Insurer license fees.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $15.00. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by section 14-70, which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $15.00. For the purpose of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.32))
Sec. 14-70. - License fee for insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, the said insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $10.00 per location.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.33))
Sec. 14-71. - Insurance agency license fees; independent insurance agencies, brokers, etc., not otherwise licensed.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by section 14-69 in the amount of $15.00 for each such location within the city.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.34))
State Law reference— Local license fee, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 14-72. - Due date for license fees.
License fees imposed herein shall be due and payable on the first day of each year.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.35))
Sec. 14-73. - Gross premiums tax—Imposed on life insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident, and sickness insurance within the city in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums" as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 14-69.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.36))
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1.
Sec. 14-74. - Same—Imposed on all other insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the city in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums" as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by section 14-69.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.37))
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
Sec. 14-75. - Confidential reports.
To the extent required by applicable laws, rules, and regulations, all reports required to be filed under this article shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be solely for the use of the city officers responsible for administering this article.
(Ord. of 9-18-2015, exh. A(26.40))
Secs. 14-76—14-93. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - LICENSE FOR TEMPORARY RETAIL SALES OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Licensing of temporary fireworks sales, O.C.G.A. § 25-5-10.1; local regulation of sale of consumer fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-24.

Sec. 14-94. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Consumer fireworks means any small fireworks devices containing restricted amounts of pyrotechnic composition, designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, that comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission as provided for in 16 CFR 1500 and 1507, the United States Department of Transportation as provided for in 49 CFR 172, and the American Pyrotechnics Association as provided for in the 2001 American Pyrotechnics Association Standard 87-1. The term "consumer fireworks" additionally shall mean Roman candles.
Distributor means any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership which sells consumer fireworks.
Fireworks means any combustible or explosive composition or any substance or combination of substances or articles prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, including blank cartridges, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, bombs, sparklers, and other combustibles and explosives of like construction, as well as articles containing any explosive or flammable compound and tablets and other devices containing an explosive substance.
Pyrotechnics means fireworks.
Proper identification means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person or such person's photograph, or both, and giving such person's date of birth and includes, without being limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or other identification card authorized by the state.
Temporary means a period of time not exceeding two months in a calendar year and not exceeding 30 days in a row in any one period.
(Ord. of 11-2-2015, exh. A(26-51))
Sec. 14-95. - License required.
Any business selling consumer fireworks from a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand must apply for a license from the city. The license fee for a retail fireworks temporary stand license shall be $500.00 per each stand within the city.
(1)
Requirements for license.
a.
An applicant for a fireworks retail license from the city shall offer proof that the applicant maintains public liability and product liability insurance with minimum coverage limits of $2,000,000.00 to cover any losses, damages or injuries that might ensue to persons and property as a result of the sale of consumer fireworks.
b.
The applicant must demonstrate that they have obtained a license from the state safety fire commissioner. The license fee for a retail fireworks license shall be $500.00 per location within the city.
c.
A license will only be granted to applicants who agree to operate their stand in accordance with the National Fire Protection Act Provision 1124.
(2)
Locations. A stand shall only be permitted to be located within 1,000 feet of either a fire hydrant or a fire department connection belonging to the city, unless the city fire chief provides in writing that the stand may operate further than 1,000 feet from a fire hydrant or other fire department connection.
(3)
Number of stands permitted.
a.
When a distributor is a retail chain license by the safety fire commission pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(d), the retailer may operate two temporary consumer firework stands for every retail chain store located in the county.
b.
If, at the time of the application for a stand, no distributors licensed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(b) or (d) are doing business in the county, any distributor licensed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 25-10-5.1(b) or (d) that maintains a retail sales facility within 75 miles of the border of the county may choose to place one of their two retail stands in the county.
c.
A fireworks distributor who is not a retailer may operate two retail stands for each license obtained from the safety fire commissioner.
d.
Any licensee shall notify the city clerk and the fire chief of the location of the temporary retail stand no later than ten days prior to the opening of the stand, so that the fire chief can inspect the hydrant or fire connection located near or closest to the location of the stand to ensure its proper functioning.
(4)
Face-to-face sales; age requirement. The sale of fireworks may only be conducted through in-person, face-to-face sales. Any licensee selling fireworks within the city shall ensure that all customers purchasing fireworks from this stand show proper identification verifying that they are over the age of 18.
(Ord. of 11-2-2015, exh. A(26-52))
