Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Doerun, Georgia," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the "Doerun Code."
(Code 1982, § 1-1-1; Code 2000, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Codification, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the council:
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the city, as it exists on the effective date of this Code, or as it may be amended in the future.
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Doerun" followed them.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it means The Code of the City of Doerun, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Council, city council. The terms "council" and "city council" means the city council of the City of Doerun, Georgia.
County. The terms "the county" and "this county" means the County of Colquitt.
Gender. The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Keeper, proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Limits. The term "limits" means the corporate limits (legal boundary) of the city.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. The singular and plural number each include the other, unless the other is expressly excluded.
Oath, affirmation. The term "oath" includes an affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officers, agencies, etc. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission other agency is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Doerun" followed it.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to any individual, company, society, association, firm, partnership, body politic or corporate or group of individuals, or their representatives, acting as a unit.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has, or is permitted to have, access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The terms "the state" and "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, that building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Terms used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written, in writing. The terms "written" and "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters, numerals or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-2; Code 2000, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of those sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. No provision of the Code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, article or division.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-3; Code 2000, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - History notes.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the sections.
(Code 2000, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Editor's notes and references.
The editor's notes, Charter references, cross references and state law references in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to assist the user of this Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Certain actions and ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in the Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done; or any penalty or forfeiture incurred; or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city; or any evidence of the city's indebtedness; or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any rights or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(5)
Any appropriation of the city;
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes;
(7)
Any zoning ordinance of the city or amendments thereto or any ordinance rezoning property or amending a zoning map;
(8)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision or regulating subdivisions;
(9)
Any ordinance pertaining to salaries of elected or appointed officers or employees;
(10)
Any ordinance pertaining to water restrictions;
(11)
Any temporary or special ordinance;
and all such actions and ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-6; Ord. of 10-4-1982, § 3)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code, or its application to any persons or circumstances, shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code or their application, since the same would have been enacted by the council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 180 days, or work on the public streets or public works of the city for a term not exceeding 180 days, subject to all limitations contained in the Charter. Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(d)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or this Code.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous, with respect to time, are a public nuisance.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-5; Code 2000, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2).
Sec. 1-9. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from such Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the council to make them a part this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated into this Code, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "Section _____ of The Code of the City of Doerun, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…(set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the city council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not then existing in the Code, which the city council desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _____. It is the intention of the city council, and it is hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of The Code of the City of Doerun, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-6; Code 2000, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-1)
