Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1 et seq.; The Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Use of personal property belonging to city.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use city equipment or other personal property belonging to the city on private property; provided, however, that the city may use such equipment or property on private property upon the receipt of an easement from the private property owner and if the work to be done is for a public purpose.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-7; Code 2000, § 2-1)
Sec. 2-2. - Records retention.
(a)
Those local government records retention schedules as promulgated by the office of the Secretary of the State of Georgia, as amended from time to time, and found on http://sos.georgia.archives.org/records/retention_schedules are hereby approved and adopted as records retention schedules for the city.
(b)
The city clerk is responsible for records management activities and is charged with the responsibility of directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(c)
No record shall be destroyed except in accordance with approved retention schedules.
(d)
Whenever any records are destroyed, a certificate of destruction shall be prepared and forwarded to the city clerk which shall show the type of records destroyed, the approved retention schedule number, the dates covered, and the volume destroyed.
(Ord. No. 16-0606-3, §§ 1—4, 6-6-2016)
State Law reference— Records management, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.
Secs. 2-3—2-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2-23. - Regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the council are held at the city hall or at such other place as may be designated, on the first Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-11; Code 2000, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-24. - Adjourned meetings.
If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the council or if for any reason any meeting shall fail to complete transaction of the business before the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to any date prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a majority of the members present.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-12; Code 2000, § 2-33)
Sec. 2-25. - Order of business.
(a)
The order of business at all regular meetings shall be as follows:
(1)
Correction and approval of minutes of last meeting;
(2)
Correction and approval of invoices;
(3)
Reports of committees;
(4)
Unfinished business;
(5)
Reading by the clerk of any communications; and
(6)
New business.
(b)
If the council directs any matter to be the special business of a future meeting, that matter shall have precedence over all other business at that future meeting.
(c)
No proposition shall be entertained by the council until it has been seconded, and every proposition shall, when required by the mayor or any member, be reduced to writing.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-13; Code 2000, § 2-34)
Sec. 2-26. - Previous questions.
The previous questions may be called at any time by a majority of the members present. The ayes and nays may be called for by any member.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-15; Code 2000, § 2-36)
Sec. 2-27. - Motions having precedence.
(a)
When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received, except as follows:
(1)
To lay on the table;
(2)
To postpone to a time certain;
(3)
To postpone indefinitely;
(4)
To refer to a committee;
(5)
To amend;
(6)
To strike out or insert; or
(7)
To divide.
(b)
Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order named.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-16; Code 2000, § 2-37)
Sec. 2-28. - Motion to adjourn.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2-27, a motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without debate.
(Code 1982, § 2-1-17; Code 2000, § 2-38)
Sec. 2-29. - Policy on the conduct of city council meetings.
An agenda together with accompanying information shall be sent to the mayor and each member of the city council by the city clerk three days preceding the council meeting. This agenda, upon approval at the beginning of each meeting, shall govern the order of business for the meeting. Additions, deletions, or amendments to the approved agenda shall be made by a majority vote of the council.
Following the approval of the minutes of the previous meeting, there shall be an agenda item entitled "speaker appearances." This agenda item shall contain a list of those individuals who have requested at least five days in advance of the meeting that their names be placed on the agenda. Following presentations by those on the agenda, the chairperson shall recognize those who wish to speak on a specific agenda item and have completed a speaker appearance form.
Individuals who wish to appear before the council may submit a written request to the city clerk together with a statement of the topic to be addressed. Those individuals who have submitted a written request to appear before the city council prior to the meeting shall be allowed to address the council for up to ten minutes.
Immediately prior to each meeting, individuals who wish to address a specific agenda item shall complete a speaker appearance form, a copy of which is attached hereto as "Exhibit A." The speaker appearance form will be provided by the city clerk or the city clerk's designee who shall be available to answer any questions regarding procedures for addressing the council. Speakers who wish to address a specific agenda item shall be given up to five minutes to make their remarks. No speakers will be allowed who did not complete a speaker appearance form before the meeting.
The council may prohibit discussion of those matters that are exempt from public discussion by the Georgia Open Meetings Act. These topics may include real estate acquisitions, pending litigation, and personnel matters. Speakers may submit any concerns exempt from discussion to the council or city manager in writing. No comments or presentation regarding any pending criminal charges shall be allowed until ten days after a final judgement in the matter or until ten days after all charges have been dismissed.
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this policy, meetings of the city council are not open forums and public comments shall be limited to those matters pertaining to the operation and function of the municipal government of the city. Nothing in this policy shall provide any individual any right to make a presentation to the council that is irrelevant or unrelated the city.
Prior to any statement or presentation to the council, each speaker shall state his/her name and shall provide his/her address. Each speaker shall comply with the following restrictions:
(1)
No person shall be allowed to make obscene, derogatory, or slanderous remarks that disrupt the orderly conduct of the meeting.
(2)
No person shall disrupt the meeting or interfere in any way with the orderly conduct of the meeting.
(3)
Remarks shall end when a speaker's allotted time has expired.
(4)
Speakers may respond to questions from the mayor and city council, should clarification be necessary. Provided, however, no person shall be permitted to enter into discussion with the mayor or council member or any member of the city staff during the conduct of a meeting.
The public comment period is designed to gain input from the public and not for immediate responses by the city council to public comments. While the city council cannot assure each speaker of a specific or individualized response, the city council will consider the public comments and any supporting materials provided by speakers.
Any person who willfully violates these rules shall be prohibited from appearing before the council for a period of 60 days. The mayor shall order the removal of anyone who disrupts or interferes with the orderly conduct of the meeting.
Availability of Agenda. Prior to any meeting of the city council, the council shall make available an agenda of all matters expected to come before the council at such meeting. The agenda shall be available upon request and shall be posted at the meeting site as far in advance of the meeting as reasonably possible, but shall not be required to be available more than two weeks prior to the meeting and shall be posted at a minimum at some time during the two-week period immediately prior to the meeting. Failure to include on the agenda an item which becomes necessary to address during the course of the meeting shall not preclude consideration of and action upon such item.
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DOERUN
SPEAKER APPEARANCE FORM
NAME: _____
ADDRESS: _____
CITY: ___________ STATE: _____ ZIP: _____
PHONE: ___________ E-MAIL: _____
AGENDA ITEM TO BE ADDRESSED: _____
_____
_____
Any individual wishing to address the Doerun City Council must complete the information requested above. Speakers will be allotted up to five minutes in which to complete their presentation abiding by the following rules:
• No person shall be allowed to make obscene, derogatory, or slanderous remarks that disrupt the orderly conduct of the meeting.
• No person shall disrupt or interfere in any way with the orderly conduct of the meeting.
• Remarks shall end when a speaker's allotted time has expired.
• Speakers may respond to questions from the Mayor and Council members, should clarification be necessary; provided, however, no person shall be permitted to enter into discussion with the Mayor, a Council member, or any member of the City of Doerun staff during the conduct of a meeting.
The public comment period is designed to gain input from the public and not for immediate responses by the City Council to public comments. While the City Council cannot assure each speaker of a specific or individualized response, the City Council will consider the public comments and any supporting materials provided by speakers.
Any person willfully violating these rules may be prohibited from appearing before the Council for a period of 60 days. The Mayor shall order the removal of anyone who disrupts or interferes with the orderly conduct of the meeting.
EXPAND
___________ ___________
Date Speaker Signature
  Received by:___________
City of Doerun Representative
(Res. No. 18-008, § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2018)
Secs. 2-30—2-59. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-60. - Oaths.
All appointed city officers and employees shall, before entering upon the discharge of their respective duties, take and subscribe, before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths, the oaths described in O.C.G.A. title 45, ch. 3, art. 1(O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.) and any other applicable law.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-5; Code 2000, § 2-74)
Sec. 2-61. - Bonds.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the council may require any department head, city official or employee, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, to give good and sufficient bond in any amount decided by the council. Such bond shall be payable to the city for the faithful performance of such duties and to secure against corruption, malfeasance, misappropriations or unlawful expenditures in office. Such surety bonds shall be obtained from a surety company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the council. The premiums thereon shall be paid by the city.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-6; Code 2000, § 2-75)
Sec. 2-62. - Department heads.
Each department head, subject to the approval of the mayor, shall have the authority to employ the necessary personnel, as authorized by council action, to perform the duties of his department. It shall be the responsibility of each such department head to determine whether the applicant has the necessary qualifications for the particular position applied for.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-11; Code 2000, § 62-1)
Sec. 2-63. - Adoption of policies.
The city council shall adopt personnel policies governing the relationship between the city and its employees.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-12; Code 2000, § 62-2)
State Law reference— Official bonds, O.C.G.A. § 45-4-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-64. - Retirement plan.
An ordinance approved on December 2, 1985 establishing a retirement plan for the city employees, as now or hereafter amended, is adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in this section.
(Code 2000, § 62-3)
Secs. 2-65—2-86. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS

Sec. 2-87. - Established.
The following city departments are established:
(1)
Administrative department;
(2)
Police department; and
(3)
Utilities department.
(Code 1982, § 2-4-4; Code 2000, § 2-111)
Secs. 2-88—2-117. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS (RESERVED)

Secs. 2-118—2-147. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 2-148. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on January 1 and end on December 31 of each year.
(Code 1982, § 2-5-1; Code 2000, § 2-171)
Sec. 2-149. - Annual budget; appropriations.
An annual budget and an appropriations ordinance shall be adopted by the council prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than 45 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget and the appropriations ordinance are not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, this section automatically authorizes the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city. The budget, as adopted, shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenues (including appropriated unencumbered surplus) equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced.
(Code 1982, § 2-5-2; Code 2000, § 2-172)
State Law reference— Local government budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-150. - Purchasing.
The utilities director shall be the purchasing agent of the city and shall:
(1)
Arrange and negotiate the purchase or contract for all equipment, supplies and contractual services for the city, and sell or otherwise dispose of all surplus city equipment and supplies; and
(2)
Maintain an inventory of all materials, supplies or equipment owned by the city.
(Code 1982, § 2-5-3; Code 2000, § 2-173)
Sec. 2-151. - Use of city credit cards.
The city has adopted a policy regarding government credit card and/or purchasing card usage. Any employee or official who uses or possesses a government credit card should abide by the terms of this policy when using the government credit card for purchases.
(Ord. No. 2015-1207, § 1(2-174), 12-7-2015)
