Chapter 36 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local solid waste management regulations, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; local comprehensive solid waste management plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; cost reimbursement fees and surcharges, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39; reduction of amount of solid waste in city, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.1; local restrictions on disposal of tires, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; local and regional solid waste management authorities, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-50 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 36-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Brown goods means bulky waste such as sofas, chairs, mattresses and other household furnishings.
Bulky waste means large appliances, pieces of furniture or waste material from a commercial or residential source other than construction debris or hazardous waste with a weight or volume greater than that allowed for containers.
Commercial means any hotel, motel, restaurant, business, public or semipublic establishment of any kind.
Construction debris shall mean waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations.
Residence means all single-family dwelling units, including mobile homes and modular homes, and each individual unit of any multifamily structure, such as duplexes and apartment buildings.
Solid waste means putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of food, including food containers, and nonputrescible solid waste consisting of combustible and noncombustible materials, including wastepaper, metals, cans, glass, plastics, and/or other similar materials.
White goods means bulky waste such as refrigerators, freezers, dryers, washers and other large appliances.
(Code 2000, § 70-1; Ord. of 5-1-2000(1), §§ 1(b), 3(a); Ord. No. 2021-001 , § 1, 5-3-2021)
Sec. 36-2. - Violation of chapter.
Each violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or 180 days' imprisonment, or both the fine and imprisonment. Ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney. Citations shall be issued by the mayor or the city clerk or his designee.
(Code 1982, § 4-2-8; Code 2000, § 70-3; Ord. of 5-1-2000(1), § 3)
Secs. 36-3—36-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local solid waste management regulations, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; local comprehensive solid waste management plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; cost reimbursement fees and surcharges, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39; reduction of amount of solid waste in city, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.1; local restrictions on disposal of tires, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; local and regional solid waste management authorities, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-50 et seq.

Sec. 36-23. - Solid waste storage and collection.
(a)
All solid waste shall be free from excessive liquid and placed in plastic bags or vinyl containers supplied by the city or its designated collector.
(b)
Containers must be placed at the curbside of the nearest public road by 7:00 a.m. on regular collection days or on the next collection day if the regular collection day falls on a holiday. Containers from residential units must be moved from the curbside to a place on the side or rear within 24 hours of the collection.
(c)
The city shall have the right to collect and dispose of all solid waste (including recyclables) within the city either through employees of the city or by contract issued to a person, firm, corporation, partnership or entity engaged in the business of solid waste collection and disposal.
(d)
Solid waste shall be collected once a week from residential units on a day to be established by the city council. The frequency of collection for commercial units shall be at least once per week. More frequent collections from commercial units may be required if sanitary conditions in and around the container dictate.
(e)
The city or the designated contract collector may decline to collect any solid waste containing excess liquid that is not properly contained or is contained in unauthorized containers.
(f)
The city or designated collector shall not be responsible for the collection of discarded building material, dirt, rock, and bulky waste. Provided however, upon request, the city may establish a fee for the removal of bulky waste.
(g)
The city or the designated collector may elect to collect yard waste, including grass clippings, trees and tree branches (cut to a length of no more than four feet), and/or other vegetation, each week on a day to be established by the city council. The city shall not collect and dispose of trees and large tree branches taken down by contractors hired for the removal of trees, limbs, and large vegetation.
(h)
Collection and disposal of bulky waste shall be made upon request of the customer. The customer shall pay in advance for the cost of such collection and disposal.
(i)
Construction debris shall be disposed of by the property owner or their contractor.
(Code 2000, § 70-31; Ord. of 5-1-2000(1), § 3(b)—(i); Ord. of 2-6-2012, § 2; Ord. No. 2021-001 , §§ 2—4, 5-3-2021)
Sec. 36-24. - Amount and collection of fee.
(a)
Each residential and commercial unit located within the corporate limits of the city shall be charged a fee for the collection of solid waste as adopted by the city council from time to time.
(b)
The occupant of the residential or commercial unit within the city shall be billed for the fee collected under this article. The occupant shall be billed monthly by the city showing the amount due and payable. The bill for solid waste services, together with the bill for water, gas, electrical and cable television services, if applicable, shall constitute the utilities bill for the city. Customers of the city utilities shall not be allowed to pay a water bill and not a sewer bill, or vice versa.
(c)
Such fee shall be due and payable by the tenth day of each following month. A late payment penalty and an assessment of interest shall be imposed on each account for which payment is not made within the prescribed time limit. Occupants of each residential or commercial unit may pay the entire amount due for the calendar year in advance if they so desire.
(Code 2000, § 70-32; Ord. of 5-1-2000(1), § 1)
Sec. 36-25. - Use of fees.
All fees imposed by this article shall be used and appropriated to pay for the collection and disposal of all solid waste within the city. Such fees shall be deposited in a special account set up by the city specifically for this purpose.
(Code 2000, § 70-33; Ord. of 5-1-2000(1), § 2)
Sec. 36-26. - Unauthorized accumulation of solid waste; nuisance.
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within a reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice from the city shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Code 1982, § 4-2-6; Code 2000, § 70-34)
Sec. 36-27. - Interfering with containers.
No person other than the owner of a container shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents of such container, or remove any container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner.
(Code 1982, § 4-2-7; Code 2000, § 70-35)
Secs. 36-28—36-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER CONTROL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-42 et seq.; authority of city to prohibit littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-48.

Sec. 36-58. - Purpose.
The city council, in furtherance of their responsibility to protect the public health, safety, and well-being of the citizens, and to protect and enhance the quality of the environment, hereby establishes rules and regulations controlling the unsystematic, careless, and indiscriminate disposition of litter throughout the city.
(Code 2000, § 70-61; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-59. - Enactment.
This article shall be known and may be cited as "The Litter Control Ordinance of the City of Doerun, Georgia."
(Code 2000, § 70-62; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-60. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the duly authorized governing body of the city of Doerun, Georgia, or the geographical area of Colquitt County inside the corporate limits of the municipality of Doerun, Georgia.
Dumpster means a bulk container used for the collection of garbage, refuse, trash, and litter. The use of this term is generic and does not refer to a bulk container manufactured by a specific manufacturer.
Garbage means the byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, or other matter which is subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors, or which, during or after decay, may serve as breeding or feeding material for flies, insects, or animals.
Household trash means every waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, cans, or other matter of any kind, other than garbage, which is usually attendant to housekeeping.
Industrial waste means all waste, including solids, semi-solids, sludges, and liquids, created by factories, processing plants, or other manufacturing enterprises.
Junked vehicle includes any wrecked or inoperable automobile, truck, or other vehicle or any vehicle which does not bear a current license plate.
Landfill means any facility where any treatment, utilization, processing, storage, or depositing of solid waste occurs.
Litter means all discarded manmade materials, including, but not limited to, garbage, household trash, industrial waste, building materials, junked vehicles, or portions thereof, refuse, waste materials, sand gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals, or any other discarded, used, or unconsumed substance which is not handled in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road, street, or highway; and any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
Refuse means any solid waste accumulations consisting of any combination of ashes, building material, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, and other waste, or discarded materials of all kinds.
Road orstreet shall be mutually inclusive and shall likewise be deemed to include any alley, lane, court, and other thoroughfare, however described or designated.
Rubbish means any waste paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metal, cans, glass, packing materials, and similar materials.
Scavenge orscavenging means any unauthorized or uncontrolled retrieval of discarded refuse materials.
(Code 2000, § 70-63; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-61. - Unlawful deposit or placement of litter; control of accumulated refuse, trash.
(a)
Prohibited acts; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, place, or leave or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on any road or street or any public or private property in the city, unless:
(1)
The property is designated by the state, city, county, or by any of their agencies for the disposal of litter, and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property;
(2)
The litter is placed into a litter receptacle, container, or dumpster installed on such property and designated for the disposal of litter; or
(3)
The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant, all in a manner consistent with the public welfare.
(b)
Public streets and private property. No person shall place any accumulations of refuse and trash in any street, median strip, alley, or other public place of travel, nor upon any private property except with the written consent of the owner thereof, and then only in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(c)
Blockage of drainage. No person shall place any refuse, trash, refuse receptacles, or containers on, over, or near any storm drain or drainage ditch, or so close thereto as to cause such material to interfere in any way with such drainage.
(d)
Unauthorized storage. Any accumulation of refuse or trash items on any lot, property, premises, public streets, alley, or other public or private place not permitted by this article, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Failure of the owner or occupant to remove and correct any such accumulation of refuse after appropriate notice from the city or its designee shall raise the presumption that such person intended to violate this article.
(e)
Scavenging. No person other than the owner thereof shall disturb or interfere with any container or dumpster used for the purpose of storing refuse pending its collection, remove any contents therefrom, or remove such container from its location.
(Code 2000, § 70-64; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-62. - Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced under O.C.G.A. § 16-7-45, as amended, said section being entitled "Litter Control Law."
(Code 2000, § 70-65; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-63. - Investigations.
Members of the city police department and members of the department of public works shall report all complaints of violations of any of the provisions of this article to the city clerk.
(Code 2000, § 70-66; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-64. - Enforcing officers.
The mayor and his authorized inspectors and the members of the city police department are authorized to issue a citation against any person violating this article.
(Code 2000, § 70-67; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-65. - Court proceedings.
(a)
Violations of this article shall be tried upon citations, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, and may be tried with or without a prosecuting attorney, as well as upon accusation by the city attorney. The city attorney shall serve as the prosecuting attorney.
(b)
Violations of this article shall be tried in the municipal court of the city and shall be tried in accordance with O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 through 15-10-66.
(c)
Nothing in this article shall prevent the city council from bringing civil action for injunction, mandamus, or other proceedings to present, correct, or abate any violation of this article. No sanction, penalty, or remedy prescribed herein shall be considered exclusive of any other remedy, but shall be available in addition to any other sanction, penalty, or remedy by law.
(d)
Each violation of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 2000, § 70-64; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-66. - Prima facie case.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any article, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, and other writings, which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article.
(Code 2000, § 70-69; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 36-67. - Penalty.
(a)
Any person violating this article or any provision hereof, upon conviction, shall be punished as follows:
(1)
By a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00;
(2)
In the sound discretion of a court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public road or highway or public right-of-way, for a distance not to exceed one mile, any litter he has deposited and any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of execution of the sentence; or
(3)
In the sound discretion of the judge of a court in which conviction is obtained, the person may be directed to pick up and remove from any public beach, public park, private right-of-way, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property upon which it can be established by competent evidence that he has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of execution of sentence;
(4)
The court may publish the names of persons convicted of violating this article.
(b)
No person accused of violating this article shall be arrested prior to trial, but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the judge of the municipal court and required to post bond for his future appearance.
(Code 2000, § 70-70; Ord. of 10-2-2000, § 1(exh. A))
