Chapter 24 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Fire escapes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50 et seq.; forest fires, O.C.G.A. § 12-6-89; transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27; fire protection and safety, O.C.G.A. § 25-1-1 et seq.; remedy of unsafe conditions upon failure to comply with court order, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-25; local ordinances, regulations or codes relating to fire prevention or protection, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4; fireworks, O.C.G.A. § 25-10-1 et seq.; state grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248; Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; liability of officers, agents, etc., of fire departments for activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Tampering with alarm system.
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to interfere or tamper with any fire alarm box, or any of the appliances or apparatus connected therewith, located within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-4; Code 2000, § 46-1)
Secs. 24-2—24-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— State grants for public purposes, O.C.G.A. § 36-40-20 et seq.; crossing fire hose, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-248; Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, O.C.G.A. § 47-7-1 et seq.; liability of officers, agents, etc., of fire departments for activities, O.C.G.A. § 51-1-30.

Sec. 24-21. - Fire chief and members.
The volunteer fire department, headed by the fire chief, also consists of other volunteer members and is recognized as the fire department of the city.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-1; Code 2000, § 46-31)
Sec. 24-22. - Interfering with equipment.
No person other than a duly enrolled member of the fire department shall ride upon the city fire trucks at any time, nor use, borrow or interfere with any fire department equipment, or use or attempt to use the equipment at the scene of a fire unless authorized to do so by the fire chief.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-2; Code 2000, § 46-32)
Sec. 24-23. - Enforcement.
Whenever the fire department is answering an alarm or operating at the scene of a fire or other emergency, every enrolled member of the department is hereby empowered and authorized to control and direct motor vehicle traffic, stop or move vehicles, and enforce all provisions of this article and any other provisions of this Code, the enforcement of which is deemed necessary to assist in the control of the fire or other emergency.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-3; Code 2000, § 46-33)
Secs. 24-24—24-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE INSPECTIONS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY

Sec. 24-50. - Issuance of new certificate of occupancy.
(a)
Any existing building or structure other than those listed in section 24-54 shall be re-inspected and evaluated as would a proposed building in the event such building or structure is subject to:
(1)
Substantial renovation;
(2)
A fire or other hazard of serious consequence; or
(3)
A change in the classification of occupancy.
(b)
For purposes of this section, the term "substantial renovation" means any construction project involving exits or internal features of such building or structure costing more than the building's or structure's assessed value according to county tax records at the time of such renovation.
(c)
For purposes of this section, the term "change in classification of occupancy" includes situations in which said structure or unit in said structure is vacant for a period of six months or more.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005, § 1)
Sec. 24-51. - Issuance of temporary occupancy permits.
In existing buildings other than those which come under the classification in section 24-54, when substandard conditions are found, a temporary occupancy permit may be issued, such permit carrying a time limit adjusted to meet the amount of time deemed necessary to make the proper corrections in order to bring the building up to standard. All certificates of occupancy shall be issued against the building and shall not require renewal because of change of ownership. The same set of fees for certificates of occupancy as are applicable to proposed buildings shall apply.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005, § 2)
Sec. 24-52. - Inspection of existing structures.
(a)
The city shall have the authority at all times of the day and night to enter in or upon and to examine any building or premises where a fire is in progress or has occurred, as well as other buildings or premises adjacent to or near the same. The city shall have the right to enter in and upon all buildings and premises subject to this article, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of examination or inspection.
(b)
Upon complaint submitted in writing, the city may enter in or upon any building or premises between the hours of sunrise and sunset for the purpose of investigating the complaint. Upon the complaint of any person, the state fire marshal or his deputized officials may inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings and premises within their jurisdiction whenever he or they deem it necessary.
(c)
The city, in addition to other procedures now or hereafter provided, may obtain an inspection warrant.
(1)
Inspection warrants may be issued by any judge of the superior, state, municipal, or magistrate court upon proper oath or affirmation showing probable cause for the purpose of conducting inspections authorized by this article or rules promulgated under this article and for the seizure of property or the taking of samples appropriate to the inspection. For the purposes of issuance of inspection warrants, probable cause exists upon showing a valid public interest in the effective enforcement of this article or rules promulgated under this article sufficient to justify inspection of the area, premises, building, or conveyance in the circumstances specified in the application for the warrant.
(2)
A warrant shall be issued only upon affidavit of a person authorized to conduct inspections pursuant to this article, sworn to before the judicial officer and establishing the grounds for issuing the warrant. The issuing judge may issue the warrant when he is satisfied that the following conditions are met:
a.
The one seeking the warrant must establish under oath or affirmation that the property to be inspected is to be inspected as a part of a legally authorized program of inspection which includes that property or that there is probable cause for believing that there is a condition, object, activity, or circumstance which legally justifies such an inspection of that property, including those circumstances outlined in section 24-50; and
b.
The issuing judge determines that the issuance of the warrant is authorized by this article.
(3)
The warrant shall:
a.
State the grounds for its issuance and the name of each person whose affidavit has been taken in support thereof;
b.
Be directed to persons authorized by this article to conduct inspections to execute it;
c.
Command the persons to whom it is directed to inspect the area, premises, building, or conveyance identified for the purpose specified and, if appropriate, direct the seizure of the property specified;
d.
Identify the item or types of property to be seized, if any; and
e.
Designate the judicial officer to whom it shall be returned.
(4)
A warrant issued pursuant to this article must be executed and returned within ten days of its date of issuance, unless, upon a showing of a need for additional time, the court orders otherwise.
(5)
If property is seized pursuant to a warrant, a copy shall be provided upon request to the person from whom or from whose premises the property is taken, together with a receipt for the property taken. The return of the warrant shall be made promptly, accompanied by a written inventory of any property taken. A copy of the inventory shall be delivered upon request to the person from whom or from whose premises the property was taken and to the applicant for the warrant.
(6)
The judicial officer who has issued a warrant shall attach thereto a copy of the return and all papers returnable in connection therewith and file them with the county clerk of the superior court.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005, § 3)
Sec. 24-53. - Abatement of hazards.
Any building or other structure which, for want of repair or by reason of age or dilapidated condition or any other cause, is especially liable to fire hazard; or which is so situated as to endanger other property or the safety of the public; or when, in or around any building, an officer finds combustible or explosive matter, inflammables, or other conditions dangerous to the safety of the building shall be considered an unsafe structure in violation of section 12-33 and shall be abated in accordance with the provisions of chapter 12, article II, division 2, pertaining to property maintenance.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005, § 4)
Sec. 24-54. - Exempted structures.
The foregoing provisions shall apply to buildings and structures to which O.C.G.A. § 25-2-13 is inapplicable.
(Ord. of 5-2-2005, § 5)
Secs. 24-55—24-81. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FIRE PREVENTION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local ordinances, regulations or codes relating to fire prevention or protection, O.C.G.A. § 25-3-4.

Sec. 24-82. - Fire extinguishers in certain businesses.
It shall be unlawful for any business that has flammable materials on premises to fail to have a ten-pound ABC fire extinguisher on the premises at all times.
(Code 1982, § 3-2-23; Code 2000, § 46-32)
Sec. 24-83. - Open burning.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any solid waste or construction debris, other than yard trash, lawn trimmings, leaves, and limbs in open fires or in containers within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
Any person may burn yard trash, lawn trimmings, leaves, and limbs in open fires or containers upon first receiving a permit from the city fire department. The fire department shall grant the permit if the open burning of allowed materials does not pose a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens.
(c)
Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit burning permitted and conducted as provided in O.C.G.A. § 12-6-145, known as the Georgia Prescribed Burning Act, upon the obtaining of a permit by the state forestry commission as provided in O.C.G.A. § 12-6-90.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002(1), §§ 1—4)
