Chapter 42 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Removal of junked motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4; motor vehicles and traffic, O.C.G.A. title 40; uniform rules of the road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; powers of local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-370 et seq.; abandoned motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 et seq.; authority of municipal courts to try cases involving state traffic laws, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1—40-6-354, known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this city with like effect as if recited in this section.
(Code 1982, § 8-1-1; Code 2000, § 82-1)
Sec. 42-2. - Temporary traffic regulations.
In cases where traffic upon the streets of the city may become congested upon occasions of parades and at theaters and other public assemblages where large numbers of vehicles are assembled, the police chief may make temporary rules directing and regulating the traffic in these congested districts. Any person who, after being warned of the temporary traffic regulations, shall violate them, shall be liable therefor as for other violations of this Code.
(Code 1982, § 8-1-2; Code 2000, § 82-2)
Sec. 42-3. - Traffic, speed, truck, parking and other zones; signs and traffic control devices; schedule.
(a)
The police chief or his designee, upon approval by ordinance of the council, is authorized to designate and maintain, with appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices, after engineering and traffic investigations for:
(1)
Speed zones;
(2)
Truck routes and streets to be designated specifically to prohibit various classes of trucks;
(3)
One-way streets and other directional control devices;
(4)
Freight loading zones and regulations;
(5)
Parking and no parking zones and regulations thereon;
(6)
Stop, yield and other right-of-way signs; and
(7)
Stop signals and other traffic signals.
(b)
The police chief or his designee is authorized to issue written orders designating by appropriate traffic control signs, markings and devices, after engineering and traffic investigations for:
(1)
Pedestrian crosswalks;
(2)
Other safety zones for pedestrians;
(3)
Traffic lanes; and
(4)
Any other sign, marking or zone necessary for orderly and safe conditions on the city streets.
(c)
The police chief shall maintain or cause to be recorded a current schedule of all traffic rules, regulations and orders under this section, which record shall be available for inspection by the public. For items listed in subsection (a) of this section, this schedule, and any amendments thereto, shall become effective only upon approval by an ordinance of the council, and this schedule is incorporated in this subsection, and copies shall be available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk.
(d)
All traffic control signs, signals, devices and markings shall conform to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, promulgated by the state department of transportation. All signs and signals required under this section for a particular purpose shall, so far as is practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic control devices of the city.
(e)
Any violation of any traffic zone, marking, sign or other traffic control device established under this section shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 8-1-4; Code 2000, § 82-4)
Sec. 42-4. - Obstruction of view and use by trees and shrubs; notice.
(a)
No person owning, occupying or in any way controlling property in this city shall permit any tree, bush or shrub on the property to project over any street or sidewalk of the city so as to obstruct or interfere with the view and use of persons walking or riding in a vehicle on the street or sidewalk, or of other persons or vehicles approaching from cross or intersecting streets.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether the owner, tenant, agent or person controlling property in the city, to fail to remove any tree, bush or other obstruction from the streets or sidewalks of the city after ten days' notice by the city to do so.
(Code 1982, § 8-1-5; Code 2000, § 82-5)
Sec. 42-5. - Free flow of traffic; obstructions.
All persons are prohibited from engaging in driving procedures which obstruct the free flow of traffic in, around, over and through the streets, alleyways and other public ways of the city. Any person is prohibited from stopping his vehicle (except at a stop signal or stop sign, or to honor another driver's right-of-way, or in an emergency situation) in a manner so as to obstruct the free and orderly flow of traffic by the maneuver or to engage in unduly slow driving procedures, so as to obstruct the free flow of traffic, needlessly circle the block, dawdle, make unnecessarily rapid accelerations and decelerations or to in any other manner constitute a traffic nuisance or hazard.
(Code 1982, § 8-2-1; Code 2000, § 82-6)
Sec. 42-6. - Speed limits established.
(a)
No person shall operate any motor vehicle or tractor upon any of the streets and highways of the city at a greater speed than is reasonable and proper having regard to their width, traffic and use, or so as to endanger the property or life or limb of any person.
(b)
Thirty-five miles per hour shall be the maximum speed on all streets or portions of streets within the city, unless otherwise indicated by officially posted signs designating the maximum vehicular speed upon those streets as approved by the council.
(Code 1982, § 8-2-2; Code 2000, § 82-7)
Sec. 42-7. - Traffic signs, signals and markings.
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of official traffic control signals, signs and markings erected at street intersections and other locations now or hereafter approved by the council.
(Code 1982, § 8-2-3; Code 2000, § 82-8)
Sec. 42-8. - Riding bicycles, motorcycles or skateboards on sidewalk.
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle, motorcycle or skateboard on the sidewalks in the downtown section of the city.
(Code 1982, § 9-1-8; Code 2000, § 82-10)
Sec. 42-9. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(Code 1982, §§ 8-2-5, 8-3-6; Code 2000, § 82-11)
Sec. 42-10. - Motorized carts and personal transportation vehicles.
(a)
Motorized carts and personal transportation vehicles may not be operated on state highways under the jurisdiction and control of the department of transportation, even in areas where the posted speed limit is 25 miles per hour or less, except that these highways may be crossed in designated areas specified in subsection (b) of this section.
(b)
Motorized carts and personal transportation vehicles may cross state highways which are under the jurisdiction of the department of transportation only at designated areas.
(c)
Motorized carts and personal transportation vehicles may be operated on city streets only during daylight hours.
(Ord. of 11-7-2011, § 82-12)
Sec. 42-11. - Entering angled parking spaces and turning on rights-of-way with angled parking.
(a)
The term "angled parking" shall be defined as any parking in marked spaces along the sides of a right-of-way which can be entered from the closest lane of travel by turning to the right approximately 45 degrees on two-way rights-of-way and on one-way rights-of-way by turning to the right or the left approximately 45 degrees. This shall include all parking on roadways other than that described in O.C.G.A. § 40-6-200(a) and (b).
(b)
The term "three-point turn" shall be defined as the process of executing a left hand turn to and proceeding toward the left hand side of the right-of-way, placing the vehicle in reverse and backing up, and placing the vehicle back in a forward gear and proceeding in a direction other than the direction the vehicle was traveling prior to the initial left hand turn, without ever fully leaving the right-of-way. For the purposes of this section, the term "three-point turn" shall also include a turn where the first two steps of this process are repeated more than once.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to enter an angled parking position on a two-way right-of-way by executing a left hand turn. It shall be considered a violation of this section if said turn is attempted, but cannot be completed in one motion such that the motor vehicle executes a three-point turn to enter a parking space that is, in relation to the vehicle's original starting position, more than 90 degrees to its left.
(d)
It shall be illegal for any person to "back into" an angled parking position in such a manner that their headlights when parked are facing toward the closest lane of travel.
(e)
It shall be illegal for any motor vehicle to execute or attempt to execute a three-point turn on a right-of-way containing angled parking or in any location where it would be a violation of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-121 for a vehicle to execute a U-turn.
(Ord. No. 16-0606-2, §§ 1—5, 6-6-2016)
Secs. 42-12—42-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARKING

Sec. 42-41. - Vehicles to be parked within marked spaces.
Whenever a space is marked off on any highway for the parking of an individual vehicle, every vehicle there parked shall be parked within the lines bounding that space.
(Code 1982, § 8-3-1; Code 2000, § 82-41)
