Chapter 66 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Interstate signs generally, § 14-106 et seq.; riding bicycles restricted, § 50-4; parades and processions, § 74-41 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; grant by municipal corporation of right to obstruct public street prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; power of city to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, street lights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 66-1. - Sidewalk construction.
No sidewalk of any description, of any brick, wood or other material shall be built by any person without a written permit from the city.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-7)
Sec. 66-2. - Streets and sidewalks not to be damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt, batholithic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street or sidewalk of the city that shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-8)
Sec. 66-3. - Sidewalks not to be obstructed or damaged.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or damage in any manner any sidewalk in the city by allowing trees, shrubbery, hedges, branches, roots or other debris to interfere therewith. Trees shall be pruned to a minimum height of ten feet above the sidewalk.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-9)
State Law reference— Obstructing sidewalks or other public passages, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-43.
Secs. 66-4—66-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 66-36. - Permit to dig in streets.
No person shall make any excavations or openings or dig any ditch, trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, poles for any other purposes unless a written permit for such activity has been issued by the city administrator. A permit shall not be required where that work is performed under a contract with the city; but if that work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person shall notify the city administrator and the police department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-1)
Sec. 66-37. - Application for permit.
All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any street or sidewalk, as set forth in this article, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor, and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be cut.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-2)
Sec. 66-38. - City indemnified.
Any person obtaining a permit under this article agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising out of the person's operations.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-3)
Sec. 66-39. - Street repair.
When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making that excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the excavation or opening; and this refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications issued by the city administrator. Any person neglecting, refusing or failing to comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation thereof; and where any neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice from the city administrator, every day's continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-4)
Sec. 66-40. - Leaving unprotected.
It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under this article to do any excavation of any kind that may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the work, sufficient to warn the public of any excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of the work.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-5)
Sec. 66-41. - Supervision and control.
All excavations and work in the streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of the city shall be under the supervision and control of the city administrator, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, he shall make a final inspection and see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or done, and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed from the site. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a violation; and where any failure or refusal is continued after notice from the city administrator, every day's continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1980, § 4-1-6)
