ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 10-23—10-47. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUILDING DEPARTMENT

Sec. 10-48. - Office created.
There is hereby established a department to be called the building department and the person in charge shall be known as the building official.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(a))
Sec. 10-49. - Building official.
The building official shall have at least five years' experience or equivalent, as an architect, engineer, inspector, contractor, or superintendent of construction, or any combination of these, for two years of which he shall have been in responsible charge of work. The building official shall be appointed by and be under the general control of the county administrator. His appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(b))
Sec. 10-50. - Badge of office.
For the purpose of identification, the building official may adopt a badge of office which he shall display on demand; provided that in any emergency, any other method of identification shall be sufficient.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(c))
Sec. 10-51. - Records.
The building official shall keep, or cause to be kept, a record of the business of the department. The records of the department shall be open to public inspection.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(d))
Sec. 10-52. - Reports.
The building official shall annually submit a report covering the work of the building department during the preceding year. He shall incorporate in said report a summary of the decisions of the construction industry board of licensing, adjustments and appeals during said year.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(e))
Sec. 10-53. - Cooperation of other county officials.
The building official may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of the sheriff in enforcing orders, of the county attorney in prosecuting violations and of any other county official.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-3(f))
Secs. 10-54—10-79. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY BOARD OF LICENSING, ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS

Sec. 10-80. - Appointment.
There is hereby established a board to be called the construction industry board of licensing, adjustments and appeals, hereafter referred to as the board, which shall consist of six voting members and a liaison to the planning commission. The said board shall be appointed by the county board of commissioners: one of whom shall be a building contractor or professional in the construction related field, two shall be master electricians, one master plumber, one licensed conditioned air contractor, one representative of the building supply industry and one representative of the agricultural community.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(a))
Sec. 10-81. - Terms.
The terms of all members shall be for three years except that for the initial creation of the board three of the members shall be appointed for two years.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(b))
Sec. 10-82. - Quorum.
Four voting members present shall constitute a quorum.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(c))
Sec. 10-83. - Chairperson.
The chairperson of the board shall be appointed by the commission.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(d))
Sec. 10-84. - Duties of the board.
The board or an appointed authority shall administer all building industry competency examinations required by this chapter. The board shall also hear and make decisions on appeals to the decisions of the building official, hear requests for adjustments to this Code and to hear complaints against licensed contractors.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(e))
Sec. 10-85. - Appeals.
Whenever the building official shall reject or refuse to approve the mode or manner of construction proposed to be followed or materials to be used in the installation or alteration of a building or structure, or when it is claimed that the provisions of this Code do not apply, or that any equally good or more desirable form of installation can be employed in any specific case, or when it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Code or any of the regulation thereunder have been misconstrued or incorrectly interpreted, the owner of such building or structure, or his duly authorized agent, may appeal from the decision of the building official to the board. Notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed within 90 days after the decision is rendered by the building official, except that in case of a building, structure, electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas system which, in the opinion of the building official, is unsafe or dangerous, the building official may, in his order, limit the time for such appeal to a shorter period. Appeals shall be on forms provided by the building official.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(f))
Sec. 10-86. - Variances.
The board, when so appealed to and after a hearing, may vary the application of any provision of this Code to any particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice, and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this Code or public interest, or when, in its opinion the interpretation of the building official should be modified or reversed.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(g))
Sec. 10-87. - Action.
The board shall, in every case, reach a decision without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Each decision of the board shall also include the reasons for the decision. If a decision of the board reverses or modifies a refusal, order or disallowance of the building official, or varies the application of any provision of this Code, the building official shall immediately take action in accordance with the decision.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(h))
Sec. 10-88. - Decisions are final.
Every decision of the board shall be final, subject however to such remedy as any aggrieved party might have at law or in equity.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. I, § 6.1-4(i))
Secs. 10-89—10-119. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - INSPECTIONS

Sec. 10-120. - Right of entry.
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this Code, or whenever the building official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation which makes such building or premises, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building official (may enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon the building official) by this Code, provided that if such building or premises is occupied, he shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, the building official shall obtain a property inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. IV, § 6.4-1)
Sec. 10-121. - Existing building inspections.
Before issuing a permit, the building official may examine or cause to be examined any building, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems for which an application has been received for a permit.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. IV, § 6.4-2)
Sec. 10-122. - Inspections prior to issuance of certificate.
The building official shall inspect or cause to be inspected at various intervals all construction or work for which a permit is required, and a final inspection shall be made of every building or structure upon completion, prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. IV, § 6.4-3)
Sec. 10-123. - Required inspections.
The building official, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent, shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as necessary, and shall place a violation report on the job site:
(1)
Building.
a.
Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated, forms erected, grade stakes installed and any required reinforcing is in place.
b.
Frame inspections. To be made after the roof, all framing, fire blocking and bracing is in place, and all concealed wiring, all pipes, chimneys, ducts and vents are complete and inspected.
c.
Insulation inspection. To be made prior to covering insulation.
d.
Wallboard inspection. To be made prior to taping wallboard on all wallboard installed as part of fire rated assemblies.
e.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy, which shall include properly approved connections to approved water and sewage systems.
(2)
Electrical.
a.
Temporary service. To be made after service has been installed, but prior to connection to utility.
b.
Underground and slab inspection. To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, wiring or conduit installed, and before any backfill or slabs are put in place.
c.
Rough-in inspection. To be made after the roof, framing, fire blocking and bracing is in place and all wiring or conduit is complete prior to installation of ceiling and wall membranes.
d.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is complete, all electrical fixtures in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy or use.
(3)
Gas.
a.
Rough piping inspection. To be made after all new piping authorized by the permit has been installed, and before any such piping has been covered or concealed or any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected.
b.
Final piping inspection. To be made after all piping authorized by the permit has been installed and after all portions which are to be concealed have been so concealed, and before any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected. This inspection shall include a pressure test.
c.
Final inspection. To be made on all new gas work authorized by the permit and such portions of existing systems as may be affected by new work or any changes, to insure compliance with all the requirements of this Code and to ensure that the installation and construction of the gas system is in accordance with the approved plans.
(4)
Mechanical.
a.
Underground fuel piping inspection. To be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, fuel piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. To be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and bracing are in place and all ducking, and other concealed components are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. To be made after the building is complete, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(5)
Swimming pool.
a.
Rough-in inspection. To be made after excavation is made and framework or reinforcing is placed, prior to backfill or concrete is put in place.
b.
Final inspection. To be made after pool is complete and after security fence has been erected.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. IV, § 6.4-4)
Secs. 10-124—10-144. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY

Sec. 10-145. - Building occupancy.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in occupancy or the nature of the use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Permanent electrical service shall not be connected or re-connected until the certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. V, § 6.5-1)
Sec. 10-146. - Temporary occupancy.
A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building. A fee as required in section 10-215 must be paid prior to issuance of each temporary certificate of occupancy. Permanent electrical service may be connected at the issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. V, § 6.5-2)
Sec. 10-147. - Certificate of completion.
A certificate of completion may be issued for a building shell that has been completed in accordance with a properly issues permit once all final inspections have been made. A certificate of completion does not convey any right to occupy the building.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. V, § 6.5-3)
Sec. 10-148. - Existing buildings.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with this Code for the occupancy intended. Where necessary, in the opinion of the building official, two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of this Code for such occupancy, and the appropriate fees as required in section 10-215 have been paid, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. V, § 6.5-4)
Sec. 10-149. - Change of occupancy.
No change of occupancy or use shall be made in a building hereafter erected or alter that is not consistent with the last issued certificate of occupancy for such building, unless a permit is secured. In the case of an existing building, no change of occupancy that would bring it under some special provision of this article shall be made, unless the building official finds, upon inspection, that such building conforms substantially to the provisions of the law with respect to the proposed new occupancy and use and issues a certificate of occupancy thereof. The use of a building shall not be deemed to have changed because of temporary vacancy or change of ownership or tenancy.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. V, § 6.5-5)
Secs. 10-150—10-166. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION

Sec. 10-167. - Contractors regulated.
Any person desiring to engage in the business of building, gas, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, sign, or swimming pool contracting within the unincorporated portions of the county shall first make application for and obtain the proper license from the county building official.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-1)
Sec. 10-168. - State-licensed contractors.
Any contractor required to be licensed by the state construction industry licensing board need only to show proof of current licensing by said board, complete the prescribed application for licensing in the county, and pay the appropriate fee as prescribed in section 10-215.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-2)
Sec. 10-169. - Non-state-licensed contractors.
Any contractor not required to be licensed by the state construction industry licensing board shall be licensed by the county after completing the prescribed application, demonstrating proof of competency by one of the methods in section 10-170, and paying the appropriate fee as prescribed in section 10-215.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-3)
Sec. 10-170. - Proof of competency.
(a)
Any person requesting licensing for commercial or residential building contractors licenses shall be required to complete pass the appropriate competency examination as prescribed by the county construction board of licensing, adjustments and appeals scoring at or above 70 percent and shall provide proof by affidavit from three persons from whom they have performed construction work within the past five years of the type for which application is being made that the work was done in a satisfactory manner.
(b)
Any person requesting licensing for commercial or residential building contractor who is registered by any other governmental body in the state wherein the licensing standards for contractors are comparable to that of the county shall only be required to file with the building department a certificate from authorities of the governmental body wherein they are licensed stating that they have completed testing with a passing score are licensed to engage in the type of work for which they are applying.
(c)
Any electrical, plumbing, conditioned air, gas, low voltage or manufactured home installation contractor requesting licensing shall provide proof of state licensing for the type of work for which they are applying to engage in and under what classification they are licensed.
(d)
Anyone requesting specialty contractors licensing for a specific type of work (i.e., not covered in the above classifications etc.) shall file with the building department proof of licensing from any other governmental body for that particular type of work and/or affidavits from three persons for whom they have performed the type of work for which application is being made.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-4)
Sec. 10-171. - Applicability of article generally.
(a)
This article shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, of buildings, structures, and all installations, alterations, and repairs of plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas, electrical or low voltage wiring systems within or on public or private buildings, structures or premises except as otherwise provided in this section.
(b)
This article shall not apply to the installation, alteration, or repair or plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas, electrical services, except low voltage wiring services, up to and including the meters where such work is performed by or is an integral part of the system owned or operated by a public service corporation or the electrical, water or gas department of any municipality in this state, in rendering its duly authorized service as such.
(c)
This article shall not apply to the installation, alteration or repair of plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas, or electrical systems, except low voltage wiring systems, where such work is an integral part of the system owned or operated, in rendering its duly authorized service as such, by a railroad company, pipeline company, mining company, or public utility or municipal utility in the exercise of its normal functions as a public utility or where such work is an integral part of any irrigation system on farms, ranches, or other open, unpopulated areas where such work will not be located within 30 feet of any dwelling or any building devoted to animal husbandry.
(d)
This article shall not prohibit an individual from constructing, altering, repairing, removing or demolishing buildings or structures, and installing, altering, or repairing plumbing fixtures, air conditioning and heating, air conditioning and heating fixtures, gas, electrical or low voltage wiring services in a single-family dwelling owned or occupied by him; provided, however, that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this chapter and the orders, rules and regulations of the board of commissioners. Note: It is not the intent of this section to allow a speculative home builder to construct homes or install plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas, electrical or low voltage wiring services without proper county licenses. Building more than one home per three years may constitute violation of these regulations.
(e)
This article shall not prohibit an individual from constructing, altering, repairing, removing or demolishing buildings or structures, or installing, altering or repairing plumbing, plumbing fixtures, air conditioning and heating fixtures, gas, electrical or low voltage wiring services on the premises of or in a farm or ranch building owned or occupied by him; provided, however, that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this chapter and the orders, rules and regulations of the board of commissioners.
(f)
This article shall not prohibit an individual employed on the maintenance staff of a facility owned by the state or by a county, municipality, or other political subdivision from constructing, altering, repairing, removing, demolishing, buildings, or structures, or installing, altering, or repairing plumbing, plumbing fixtures, air conditioning and heating fixtures, gas, electrical or low voltage wiring services when such work is an integral part of the maintenance requirements of the facility; provided, however, that all such work is an integral part of the maintenance requirements of the facility; provided, further, that all such work must be done the facility; provided, further, that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this chapter and the orders, rules, and regulations of the board of commissioners.
(g)
This article shall not apply to low voltage wiring performed by public utilities except that such portion of the business of those public utilities which involved the installation, alteration, repair, or service of telecommunication systems for profit shall be covered under this article.
(h)
The installation, construction, or maintenance of power systems for the generation and distribution of electrical current constructed under the National Electrical Safety Code, which regulates the safety requirements of utilities; but the interior wiring regulated by the National Electrical Safety Code would not be exempt and must be done by an electrical contractor.
(i)
Any technician employed by a municipal or county franchised community antenna television (CATV) system or a municipally owned community antenna television system in the performance of work on the system.
(j)
This article shall not apply to any individual owner or lessee performing plumbing or related services upon residential property owned or leased by him and at which he resides.
(k)
This article shall not apply to regular, full-time employees of an institution, manufacturer or business which performs construction, plumbing, gas, electrical, low voltage wiring or conditioned air work unless the employer is engaged in the practice of building contracting, plumbing, gas, electrical, low voltage wiring, or conditioned air contracting. Such employees are only exempt when working on the premises of that employer.
(l)
This article shall not apply to manufactured housing service personnel who:
(1)
Connect the exterior sewer line to the above-ground sewer system; or
(2)
Connect the exterior water line to the above-ground water system.
(m)
This article shall not prohibit any person from installing, altering or repairing the plumbing component of a lawn sprinkler system from a backflow preventer which was installed by a licensed plumber; provided, however, that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this chapter, the rules and regulations of the board, and ordinances of the county.
(n)
Any person who contracts with a licensed conditioned air contractor as part of a conditioned air contract to install, alter or repair duct systems, control systems or insulation is not required to hold a license from the county. The conditioned air contractor must retain responsibility for completing of the contract, including any subcontracted work. Any person who contracts with a licensed conditioned air contractor to perform a complete installation, alteration or repair of a conditioned air system must hold a valid license from the county. Any person who contracts with a conditioned air contractor to install, alter or repair electrical, low voltage or plumbing components of a conditioned air system must hold a valid license from the county of the appropriate classification.
(o)
This article shall not apply to irrigation systems, but this does not exempt the electrical service to the system.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-5)
Sec. 10-172. - Classification of licenses.
All licenses shall be in the following classifications:
(1)
Residential contractor. A contractor allowed to obtain building permits and construct, alter, add to or repair single-family detached dwellings and duplex dwellings and accessory structures thereto only.
(2)
Commercial contractor. A contractor allowed to obtain building permits and construct, alter, add to or repair any type of building or structure.
(3)
Electrical contractor Class I. A contractor allowed to obtain electrical permits and do electrical work involving single-phase electrical installations which do not exceed 200 amperes or as allowed per requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(4)
Electrical contractor Class II. A contractor allowed to obtain electrical permits and to be unrestricted as to the type electrical work that can be done as allowed per requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(5)
Master plumber Class I. A contractor allowed to obtain plumbing permits and do plumbing work involving single-family dwellings and one-level dwellings designed for not more than two families and commercial structures not to exceed 10,000 square feet in area as allowed per requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(6)
Master plumber Class II. A contractor allowed to obtain plumbing permits and to be unrestricted as to the type plumbing work that can be done as allowed per requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(7)
Conditioned air contractor Class I. A contractor allowed to obtain mechanical permits and do mechanical work involving conditioned air systems or equipment not exceeding 175,000 BTU (net) of heating requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(8)
Conditioned air contractor Class II. A contractor allowed to obtain mechanical permits and to be unrestricted as to the type mechanical work that can be done as allowed per requirements of the state construction industry licensing board.
(9)
LP gas contractor. A contractor allowed to obtain gas permits and do gas work involving liquefied petroleum gas.
(10)
Natural gas contractor. A contractor allowed to obtain gas permits and do gas work involving natural gas.
(11)
Gas contractor. A contractor allowed to obtain gas permits and whose work is unrestricted with regard to gas.
(12)
Specialty contractor. A contractor whose work is not listed in the previous classification and is specific to a particular type of work that requires a permit. Specialty contractors shall only be allowed to obtain permits for work for which they hold a specialty license.
(13)
Manufactured home installer. A contractor allowed to tie down, block, etc., manufactured homes in accordance with the state rules and regulations for manufactured home installation.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-6)
Sec. 10-173. - Contractors pre-requisites to work.
(a)
Restrictions on contractor. No building permit shall be issued on work commenced by any contractor except that they be qualified under this article.
(b)
Signing of permits. The individual who obtains the required license must sign each permit obtained from the building department for which his license is required, except that he may authorized by letter of authorization an agent to sign the permit. The letter shall list the name of the contractor, the contractor's license number, the name of the person who is authorized to sign the permit. This authorization shall expire at the license expiration date or when notice is received from the licensee that it is no longer valid.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-7)
Sec. 10-174. - Fees.
No license required by this article shall be issued or renewed until the appropriate fee has been paid to the county as reflected in section 10-215.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-8)
Sec. 10-175. - Renewal.
Each license required by this article shall expire on June 30, of each year and can be renewed between April 1 and June 30 prior to expiration.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-9)
Sec. 10-176. - Expiration.
Any license holder that allows his license to expire must pay, in addition to the normal renewal fee, a penalty of 50 percent of the renewal fee. Any license holder whose license has been expired for more than 90 days must obtain approval of the board in order to reinstate the license.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-10)
Sec. 10-177. - Discipline.
The board of construction shall promulgate rules concerning discipline of contractors licensed under this article.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. VI, § 6.6-11)
Secs. 10-178—10-207. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - PERMITS

Sec. 10-208. - Required documents.
Prior to any new construction of a new structure, building or other improvement, or repair or addition to an existing structure, building or other improvement, the following is required to be on file with the county code enforcement officer:
(1)
A completed permit application with fee;
(2)
A deed or plat showing the ownership of the property and the minimum required lot size;
(3)
A drawing or copy of blueprints of the intended construction;
(4)
List of contractors and contractor license numbers;
(Res. of 5-4-2009(2), § 1)
Sec. 10-209. - Permits required.
(a)
Building permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, repair, remove or demolish a building, swimming pool, manufactured home or structure, or to commence same without first making application to the building official and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(b)
Electrical permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any electrical work or wiring which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building official and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(c)
Gas permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to install, enlarge, alter, repair, move or replace a gas system, the installation of which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building official and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(d)
Mechanical permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to install, enlarge, alter, repair, move or replace a mechanical system, the installation of which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building official and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(e)
Plumbing permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any plumbing work with any sewer, sanitary or storm, septic tank or sewage disposal system of any kind, or install fixtures or appliances in new or existing systems, structures or premises, or rep air, or add to any existing plumbing which is regulated by this Code, or cause any such work to be done without first making application to the building official and obtaining the required permit for the work.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-1)
Sec. 10-210. - Exemptions.
All persons should check with the building official to determine if their project falls into the exempt category.
(1)
Agricultural buildings and structures. Agricultural structures with a roof and poles, designed for the storage of agricultural equipment only, having no concrete floor, electrical connections and not intended for human or animal occupancy are exempt from building permit requirements only provided they are located on 25 acres or more.
(2)
Minor repair work. Normal maintenance and repair related to upkeep of existing buildings, structures, electrical, gas, plumbing, conditioned air and low voltage systems.
(3)
Residential accessory structures. Minor structures on individual residential lots less than 250 square feet clearly incidental to the primary residence are exempt from building permit requirements only. Electrical, plumbing and other applicable permits still apply.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-2)
Sec. 10-211. - Information required.
(a)
Permit application. Application for permits as required by section 10-209 shall be made in writing and filed with the building official of the county. The application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the building official may prescribe.
(b)
Drawings and specifications. When plans or diagrams are required by the building official for electrical, plumbing, heating, gas, cooling or other systems, two or more copies of the specifications, and of drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany the application for a permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the type materials, where it is essential for conformity with this Code. Such information shall be specific, and this Code shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific information. The drawing shall depict the site plan with all existing or proposed buildings on the site.
(c)
Additional data and permits. Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the building official shall receive from the applicant a copy of a recorded deed or plat indicating ownership of the parcel to be built upon and Early county health department approval for individual wells and septic tanks where the structure is not to be served by an approved public system. The building official may also require details, computations, streets diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the installation and basis of calculations and they shall bear the signature of the person responsible for the design.
(d)
Designers name. All drawings, specifications, and accompanying data shall bear the name and address of the designer. The designer shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of the state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data for all buildings and structures except for single-family detached and duplex buildings and other buildings and structures specifically exempted by state law.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-3)
Sec. 10-212. - Plan review.
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations and additional data, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of the Code and all other pertinent laws or ordinances.
(1)
Action on permits. The building official shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of this Code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, he shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(2)
Refusal to issue permit. If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the Code or other pertinent laws or ordinances, the building official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal.
(3)
Partial permit. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the building official from issuing a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure before the entire plans and detailed statements of such building or structure have been submitted or approved, if adequate plans and detailed statement have been presented for the same and have been found to comply with this section.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-4)
Sec. 10-213. - Conditions of permit.
(a)
Permit intent. A permit issued shall be construed to be a license to proceed with the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, alter, or set aside any of the provisions of the Code, nor shall such issuance of a permit prevent the building official from thereafter requiring a correction of errors in plans or in construction, or of violations of this Code. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work authorized by such permit is commenced within six months after is issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after the time the work is commended. One or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 90 days each, may be allowed for the permit, provided the extension is requested and in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated, and such extensions shall be in writing by the building official.
(b)
Plans. When the building official issues a permit, he shall endorse, in writing or by stamp, any required plans with his approval. One set of drawings so reviewed shall be retained by the building official and the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The permitted drawings shall be kept at the site of the work and shall be open to inspection by the building official or his authorized representative.
(c)
Misrepresentation of application. The building official may revoke a permit or approval issued under the provisions of this Code, in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-5)
Sec. 10-214. - Fees.
No permit, as provided above, shall be issued until after the permit fee has been paid to the county as reflected in section 10-215.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-6)
Sec. 10-215. - Schedule of permit fees.
Appropriate building permit, code compliance permit, subdivision, land disturbing permit, certificate of occupancy, contractor registration and inspection fees must be paid and are available in the county schedule of development fees.
(1)
Re-inspection. Where inspections are required, the inspection and the first re-inspection shall be at no cost; for each and every re-inspection thereafter, there shall be paid a re-inspection fee, however, the building official may waive the re-inspection fee if he determines that the re-inspection was not required as a result of the failure of the contractor to have the work ready to inspect or to have performed the work correctly.
(2)
Certificates of occupancy. The issuance of certificate of occupancy shall be at no cost except as follows:
a.
Temporary certificates of occupancy.
b.
Certificates of occupancy requested for existing buildings for which a building permit has not been issued.
(3)
Contractor registration. There shall be a charge imposed for contractor registration.
(Res. of 6-1-1998(2), ch. 6, art. III, § 6.3-7)
Secs. 10-216—10-238. - Reserved.
