ARTICLE VII. - OFFICE OF TREASURER ABOLISHED[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1980 Ga. Laws, page 3577, which abolished the office of county treasurer and transferred the duties, powers and functions of that office to the clerk of the board of commissioners. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Effective date.
Effective at the end of the present term of the treasurer of Early County on December 31, 1980, the office of treasurer of Early County is hereby abolished. All of the duties, powers, and functions heretofore performed by the said county treasurer shall thereafter be possessed and discharged by the clerk of the board of commissioners of Early County.
Section 2. - Designation of banks to act as depositories of public funds.
Beginning January 1, 1981, the governing authority of Early County shall, from time to time or as often as it may be deemed necessary or desirable, designate one or more duly incorporated banks to act as depositories of and for the public funds of Early County, which said bank or banks shall hold at the will of the commissioners.
Section 3. - Rules for selection of depositories.
Such depository or depositories shall be selected under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the board of commissioners of Early County.
Section 4. - Furnishing of monthly statements by depositories to board of commissioners.
Said depository or depositories shall furnish to the board of commissioners at the end of each month a statement showing the amount of funds deposited and paid out during the month and the balance remaining on deposit, together with all canceled checks paid during said month. Additional statements shall be furnished from time to time upon request of said board of commissioners.
