ARTICLE IX. - CORONER[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1975 Ga. Laws, page 2535, relating to the county coroner. Amendments to the Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Abolishing fee system compensation; annual salary established.
The present mode of compensating the Coroner of Early County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, an annual salary for such officer is prescribed as hereinafter provided.
Section 2. - Monthly salary amount.
The Coroner of Early County shall receive a monthly salary of $100.00, payable monthly from county funds.
Editor's note— The salary of the coroner is on file in the county clerk's office.
Section 3. - Collection of fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, penalties and all other funds; statement.
After the effective date of this Act, said Coroner shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, moneys and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed him as compensation for services in any capacity, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public moneys, and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, the Coroner shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of moneys collected and the sources thereof.
Section 4. - Operating expenses of coroner's office.
The necessary operating expenses of the Coroner's office shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of Early County.
