Chapter 32 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 32-1. - Uniform Rules of the Road adopted.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-2—40-6-395, known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city with like effect as if recited in this section.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-8.
Secs. 32-2—32-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TRUCKS

Sec. 32-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of McRae-Helena, or, as is reasonably inferred, its agents, officers, or employees.
Designated truck route means a city street or portion of a city street, designated by the city herein in section 32-23, over which all lawful vehicles may move subject to compliance with the laws of the state.
Exempted activity means the activity of trucks, specified herein in section 32-24 as being allowed, under limited circumstances, on residential streets.
Residential streets means all city streets or portions of city streets which are located within residentially zoned areas of the city, as are shown by the most recent zoning map, as may be changed from time to time by zoning modifications, which map is on file at city hall, and which map is incorporated herein for all purposes. To the extent a street or portion of the street is abutted on both sides of the right-of-way by residentially zoned property, that street or portion thereof shall be deemed a residential street. At such point as, and to the extent that, a street or portion thereof is abutted on one or both rights-of-way by commercially or industrially zoned property, such street shall not be considered to be a residential street. For example, South 1st Avenue, south of Parsonage Street shall be deemed to be a residential street; north of Parsonage Street, such street shall not be considered to be a residential street.
Truck means any bus, tractor/trailer, truck or other vehicle whose maximum gross weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
Zoning map means the map showing the city zoning which is current and in effect at the time the truck is present on the residential street. In the event of a zoning change in one or more areas of the city, however, there shall be allowed a 30-day grace period from the date of the zoning modification, during which warnings may be issued to drivers of trucks present in any area which has been newly zoned as residential. During the said 30-day period, no violations shall be prosecuted for trucks present in the areas which have been newly zoned as residential.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 2, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-22. - Declaration of "No Truck Zones."
It shall be unlawful and a violation of the laws and ordinances of the city for any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity to drive, operate, pull, park, or otherwise allow to be present any large truck, tractor/trailer, delivery van, or bus upon any of the streets in residential areas, such streets being designated herein.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 1, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-23. - Truck routes.
The city herein exercises the right to make a designation of truck routes for the purpose of controlling movement of vehicles upon the roadways within the city and for the purpose of public safety of the citizens of the city. It is the intention of this article that movement by trucks be restricted on all streets or portions of streets in all residentially zoned areas of the city. However, Spaulding Drive is a designated truck route and shall remain available to truck traffic. Likewise, Willow Creek Lane, east from its point of intersection with 3rd Avenue to its point of intersection with U.S. Highway 341 (Oak Street), is a designated truck route and shall remain available to truck traffic.
(1)
This article exempts the movement of all lawful trucks, tractor-trailers, and like vehicles upon those particular routes and roadways known as state routes and federally designated highways from the compliance of this article.
(2)
This article also exempts any lawful vehicle making a routine delivery or pickup within the city upon any street. The exemption granted is only for time necessary to complete the necessary pickup or delivery by said commercial vehicle. See section 32-24 for additional exceptions.
(3)
The city designates the following roadways as truck routes over which all lawful vehicles may move subject to compliance with the laws of the state, to wit:
a.
Center Avenue (Old Loop 27) from Eighth Street northeast to the city limits.
b.
Irwinton Avenue.
c.
Longbridge Road.
d.
Sixth Street (Old Milan-Helena Road) from Irwinton Avenue Northwest to the city limits.
e.
Third Avenue from north city limits to south city limits.
f.
MLK Jr. Boulevard.
g.
Eighth Street at east city limits to Oak Street west city limits.
h.
Hunter Avenue from Parsonage Street to MLK Jr. Boulevard.
i.
South Railroad Street from Eastman Avenue to North Center Avenue.
j.
North Eastman Avenue from South Railroad Street to Eighth Street.
k.
Decatur Avenue from South Railroad Street to Eighth Street.
l.
North Fourth Avenue.
m.
South Railroad Street from North Third Avenue to North Fourth Avenue.
n.
Parsonage Street from East Avenue to Telfair Avenue.
o.
East Avenue from East Oak Street to Parsonage Street.
p.
Industrial Boulevard from East Oak Street to Industrial Park Road.
All other city streets and roadways are prohibited from being used as truck routes and trucks, tractor-trailers and like-type vehicles are prohibited from travel upon the same.
(4)
The city has designated that the truck routes noted above may be used for the purpose of ingress and egress, but are not to be used as parking sites for said vehicles for a period of time longer than that necessary for completion of the business required. No tractor-trailer or truck, loaded or unloaded, shall be parked overnight upon any roadway not designated as a truck route within the city.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 3, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-24. - Exceptions.
(a)
Trucks shall be allowed on residential streets under the following circumstances:
(1)
If such truck is a school bus which is actively involved in the pick-up, delivery and/or transport of children for school-related purposes to homes in the area of the residential streets in question;
(2)
If such truck is a truck for garbage, refuse, or tree/tree part removal and is actively involved in its regular duty of garbage, litter, refuse or tree/branch/limb removal in the area of the residential streets in question;
(3)
If such truck is a delivery vehicle actively involved in delivering or removing goods, furniture, or building material to and/or from homes in the area of the residential streets in question;
(4)
If such truck is a vehicle owned and/or operated by the city, by public utilities, or by contractors or material men while actively engaged in the repair, maintenance, or construction of streets, street improvements or utilities; or
(5)
If such truck is a fire or other emergency vehicle responding to an emergency which threatens the health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
(b)
Any truck in question, which meets such an exception, shall be exempt from enforcement of this article for the period of time during which it is actively engaged in making its pick-up, removal or delivery, or in the performance of its task, as specified hereinabove, along with a reasonable period thereafter during which it shall promptly vacate the residential streets. Any truck which remains on the residential streets for a period in excess of this period of exemption, shall thereafter be considered to be in violation of this article. Further, any truck meeting such an exception shall take the route which will require the least travel over residential streets in going to and from its point of destination.
(c)
Also excepted are commercial trucks without trailer attached (also known as a "bob-tail truck"). However, such vehicles shall not be parked in the residential street. To the extent that it is otherwise lawful for a property owner to park such a vehicle on his lot, such a vehicle may pass over the residential street to be parked on the owner's lot. Further, any vehicle meeting this exception shall take the route which will require the least travel over residential streets in going to and from its point of destination.
(d)
Also excepted are recreational vehicles, motor homes, campers, boat trailers or similar vehicles which are used solely for noncommercial personal recreation, except that such vehicles, under this exception, shall not be parked in the residential street. To the extent that it is otherwise lawful for a property owner to park such a vehicle on his lot, such a vehicle may pass over the residential street to be parked on the owner's lot. Further, any vehicle meeting this exception shall take the route which will require the least travel over residential streets in going to and from its point of destination.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 4, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-25. - Parking on streets with one side abutting residential property.
Although trucks are allowed to travel on streets or portions of streets which are abutted on one side by residentially zoned property and on the other side by commercially or industrially zoned property, no trucks shall park in an area that is both:
(1)
Residentially zoned property; and
(2)
On the side of the street which abuts the said residentially zoned property. Trucks may park opposite the residentially zoned property, on the opposite side of the street.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 5, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-26. - Signage.
The city is authorized, but not required, to erect and maintain signs in one or more residential areas denoting that area as a "No Truck Zone." The absence of signage in an area does not exempt the area from the terms of this article, nor does it prevent enforcement of this article or prosecution for violation thereof.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 6, 9-10-2015)
Sec. 32-27. - Penalty for violation.
Any violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.00 per infraction. Each day that such a truck is present on the residential street shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. No. O-017-15, § 7, 9-10-2015)
