Chapter 20 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Sec. 20-1. - Municipal judge.
The municipal judge shall preside over the city's municipal court on the second Tuesday of every month at 3:00 p.m. The compensation for the judge shall be $500.00 per month.
(Ord. No. O-001-15, § 6, 1-1-2015)
Sec. 20-2. - Prosecuting attorney.
(a)
Short title. This section shall be known as the "Prosecuting Attorney of the McRae-Helena Municipal Court Ordinance."
(b)
Findings and intent. This section is adopted to address requirements made under state law for the city to pass an ordinance or resolution creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court should the city choose to hire or have a prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. Under state law, in order to have a municipal court prosecutor, the city must pass this ordinance or resolution and provide to the prosecuting attorneys' council of the state a copy of the same. The city is also required to submit the name of the person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court within 30 days of such appointment in order to maintain the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. It is therefore the intent of the city to comply with state law, particularly O.C.G.A. title 15, ch. 18, art. 5 (O.C.G.A. § 15-18-90 et seq.), and to enact this article.
(c)
Establishment of office. The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court is hereby established for the purpose of providing representation of the city in all of those matters enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96 and as may be otherwise allowed by state law. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall be a part-time position.
(d)
Qualifications. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court of the city shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and admitted to practice before the trial and appellate courts of the state. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from appointing the city attorney to be the prosecuting attorney for the municipal court, so long as all other requirements under the law are met.
(e)
Oath. The prosecuting attorney of the municipal court for the city shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as prosecuting attorney of the Municipal Court for the City of McRae-Helena.
I do further swear (or affirm) that I am not the holder of any unaccounted for public money due this State, or any political subdivision or authority thereof; that I am not the holder of any office of trust under the government of the United States, any other state, or any foreign state which I am prohibited from holding by the laws of the State of Georgia; and that I am otherwise qualified to hold said office, according to the Constitution and Laws of Georgia; and that I will support the Constitution of the United States and of this state. So help me God."
(f)
Term of office. The prosecuting attorney for the municipal court shall serve until otherwise designated by the mayor and council as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 15-18-91(c). It shall be at the discretion of the city council to appoint a prosecutor upon the vacancy of position.
(g)
Jurisdiction, duties, and authority. The office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court for the city shall have the duty and authority to represent the city as defined by the city Charter and by state law, particularly as described in O.C.G.A. § 15-18-96. The prosecuting attorney may engage in the private practice of law, but shall not practice in the municipal court or appear in any matter in which the prosecuting attorney has exercised jurisdiction.
(h)
Disqualification or incapacity of prosecuting attorney; substitution. If the prosecuting attorney is disqualified from engaging in the prosecution of a particular case or is unable to perform the duties of said office due to illness or incapacity, the city shall provide for the appointment of a substitute prosecuting attorney. At any time in which a substitute prosecuting attorney is not available or an appointment has not been made, the city attorney may serve as the substitute prosecuting attorney until such time as a prosecuting attorney or substitute prosecuting attorney is available or appointed.
(Ord. No. O-019-16, § 1(I)—(VIII), 3-10-2016)
