DIVISION 4. - PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL

Sec. 82-52. - Septic tank regulations.
(a)
All new construction commenced after the date of this article, shall be connected to the public sewer in accordance with the provisions set forth in the unified development code of the county. No on-site system (septic tank system) shall be permitted for new construction except as authorized by the unified development code of the county, which ordinance shall be controlling with respect to the utilization of septic tanks for new construction in Forsyth County. Existing homes and other existing facilities and properties served by septic tank systems at the date of this article, may remain being serviced by septic tank as long as it is not causing a public health problem as determined by the Forsyth County Board of Health.
(b)
Any premises that has a septic tank, privy, or any other sewage, industrial waste, or liquid waste disposal system, located thereon that does not function in a sanitary manner, as determined by the county health department, shall be corrected within 30 days from the receipt of written notification from the health department. The health department may, at its discretion, require said facility to be connected to the public sewer, in which case, the connection shall be made within 30 days after receiving such notice, provided further that such connection shall be made at the owner(s) expense when the sewer is within the distance identified or regulated by the county health department. The septic tank must then be cleaned and filled with a suitable material at the owner's expense.
(c)
All private wastewater disposal systems (including without limitation, septic systems) shall be both permitted and approved by: (i) the director, except where such systems are otherwise permitted and approved by the county health department, and (ii) the GAEPD where required by applicable law.
(d)
The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, and at no expense to Forsyth County.
(e)
Discharge of septic system waste in the public sewer is prohibited, except as otherwise set forth in this article.
(f)
Premises with private water systems shall not be connected with the public sewer without the advance written approval of the director.
(g)
No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county health department.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
Sec. 82-53. - Grease interceptor (grease trap) regulations for those facilities on private systems (septic systems).
See section 82-60 of this article.
(Ord. No. 114-B, ยง 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2019)
