ARTICLE II. - CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572 which created and established a civil service system in the county pursuant to an amendment of the state constitution as set forth in 1976 Ga. Laws, page 1796. The constitutional amendment was continued in force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4573. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Expenditure of county funds for insurance and employment benefits authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11.1; employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21(a); authority to establish retirement systems for municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(4); authority to provide insurance, retirement and pension benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.; municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5; random drug testing of state employees in high-risk jobs, O.C.G.A. § 45-20-90 et seq.; Public Employee Hazardous Chemical Protection and Right to Know Act of 1988, O.C.G.A. § 45-22-1 et seq.; Drug-Free Public Work Force Act of 1990, O.C.G.A. § 45-23-1 et seq.; social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.; Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14).

Section 1. - Designation and citation.
This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Forsyth County Civil Service System Act."
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572)
Section 2. - Established; composition.
(a)
There is hereby created and established a civil service system of personnel administration, to be known as the Forsyth County Civil Service System. All employees of Forsyth County shall be members of the Forsyth County Civil Service System except: elected officers of the county, members of appointed boards, members of commissions and authorities, the county attorney, the county physician, part-time employees, seasonal employees and consultants, employees of the Probate Court of Forsyth County, members of the Forsyth County Juvenile Court and staff, members of the Forsyth County Superior Court and staff, members of the Forsyth County State Court and staff, members of the Forsyth County Solicitor's office and staff, members of the Forsyth County District Attorney's office and staff, employees of Forsyth County Pre-Trial Services, the Chief Deputy of the Superior Court of Forsyth County, the Office Manager of the Office of the Clerk of Superior court of Forsyth County, the IT/Special Projects Administrator of the Clerk of Superior Court of Forsyth County, the county manager, deputy county manager, assistant county manager, chief financial officer, chief information officer, director of planning and community development, chief appraiser, director, information and systems technology, senior services director, animal shelter manager, parks and recreation director, finance director, public facilities director, voter registrar and elections director, communications director, environmental science manager, planning and community development deputy director, economic development director, EMA director, fire chief, and code compliance and animal services director and also those Forsyth County employees who are the head of a department or division of the county, but if the employee occupying the department or division head is under civil service as of the effective date of this amendment, then that department or division head position will not become exempt until attrition results in that position becoming filled by a different employee, and other employees expressly exempt by law.
(a.1)
Not more than six employees of the sheriff who hold the rank of captain or above and who agree in writing that they shall not be subject to the civil service system shall be exempt from the civil service system and from any rights, protections, privileges, or right of appeal under the civil service system.
(2b)
A "seasonal employee" is defined as an employee who is hired on a seasonal basis who will be employed for 40 hours per week for a period not to exceed six months; however, should an emergency arise and this employee be needed for a period beyond six months, then a request must be made to the governing authority of Forsyth County for special dispensation to allow this employee to remain for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(2c)
A "consultant" is defined as a person who for reasons of professional knowledge or other expertise is retained for a limited project or service in a position which is not regularly described in the civil service rules and regulations and which is intended to terminate when the particular need is satisfied.
(2d)
Those employees expressly exempt from the Civil Service Act shall not have any rights, protections, privileges, or right of appeal under this Civil Service Act.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572; Ord. No. 41, § 1, 8-10-1987; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3535; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5162; 1997 Ga. Laws, page 4701; 1999 Ga. Laws, page 4925; 2000 Ga. Laws, page 4272; 2006 Ga. Laws, page 4038; 2007 Ga. Laws, page 4319; 2011 Ga. Laws, page 3935; Res. of 5-19-2011, § 1; Ord. No. 41-C, § 1, 6-6-2019)
Section 3. - Membership.
(a)
There is hereby established a civil service board composed of three (3) citizens who shall be freeholders of Forsyth County, who are not employees of Forsyth County, who have paid their taxes to date and who have been residents of Forsyth County for two (2) years or more. No member of the civil service board shall have held political office or have been a salaried employee of Forsyth County during the three (3) months immediately preceding his appointment. The three (3) members shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman. No member of the civil service board shall have held political office or have been a salaried employee of Forsyth County during the three (3) months immediately proceeding [preceding] his or her appointment or be the spouse, parent, child, or sibling of a member of the Forsyth County Civil Service System.
(b)
Members of the civil service board shall be selected and appointed for a term of four (4) years each, and shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. The members of the civil service board shall be selected and appointed in the following manner: One member shall be selected by the elected county officials, who shall each have one vote, namely, clerk of the superior court, tax commissioner, sheriff and chief judge of the magistrate court, and each member of the governing authority of Forsyth County, for a total of nine votes cast, and the person so selected by said county officials shall be appointed to the civil service board by the governing authority of Forsyth County. The second member shall be selected by a majority of the employees of Forsyth County (other than the aforesaid elected officials or any person in the employ of Forsyth County), who shall be eligible to come under the provisions of this Act and who are in the employ of Forsyth County on a full-time basis on the effective date of this Act or so employed thereafter, and the person so selected by said employees shall be appointed to the civil service board by the governing authority of Forsyth County. The third member of the civil service board shall be selected by the two (2) members selected by the elected officials and the full-time county employees and the person selected shall be appointed to the civil service board by the governing authority of Forsyth County.
(c)
Each member of the civil service board shall be paid a per diem fee of one-hundred dollars ($100.00) per meeting attended, with no limitation on the number of paid meetings per month. A "meeting" shall consist of both regular meetings of the board, any special or called meetings, and each hearing day required for a civil service hearing. To the extent a regular meeting, called/special meeting or all or portion of a hearing occur on the same day, only a single per diem fee shall be paid.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572; Ord. No. 41, § 2, 8-10-1987; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3535; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5162; Res. of 5-19-2011, §§ 2, 3)
Section 4. - Duties.
It shall be the duty, function and responsibility of the civil service board to represent the interest of the public in the improvement of personnel administration and the selection of qualified personnel. All meetings of the civil service board shall be open and held in offices provided therefore by the governing authority of Forsyth County. The governing authority of said county is hereby authorized to provide necessary clerical assistance to the board by way of appointing a clerk. Said board shall hold regular meetings at least once a month, and may hold additional meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572; Res. of 5-19-2011, § 4)
Section 5. - Public hearings.
(a)
To conduct hearings, and appeals and render decisions after hearings as to a member of the Civil Service System who claims to have been improperly demoted, suspended, or dismissed. The first suspension of 8 hours or less or of one shift or less to the same employee during a single calendar year may, if approved via policy of the board of commissioners, be appealed by way of written position statements tendered to the civil service board. The civil service board shall be authorized to appoint an attorney to act as general counsel for the civil service board as well as to act as a hearing officer for the taking of evidence, findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations for disposition, said appointment and action to be based on rules, regulations, and standards effectuating the same. This appointment must be ratified by the board of commissioners prior to becoming effective. The attorney appointed as general counsel may serve as the hearing officer.
(b)
The civil service board shall keep and maintain an accurate record of minutes and shall be furnished a clerk by the governing authority to keep and maintain its minutes, post notices of meetings, coordinate meeting dates and attendance, issue subpoenas, coordinate continuances, and otherwise comply with all requirements of the Open Meetings and Records Act. The Civil Service Clerk shall not serve as clerk of any other board, committee or authority of Forsyth County.
(c)
Said board shall be authorized to make recommendations as to amendments, additions to, and changes in said rules and regulations from time to time and when said amendments, changes, or additions are adopted by the governing authority of Forsyth County, said amendments shall have the force of law and be binding on all parties affected by said civil service system.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572; Ord. No. 41, § 3, 8-10-1987; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3535; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5162; Res. of 5-19-2011, § 5)
Section 6. - Dismissal; appeal.
An employee of a covered department or office of the county may be disciplined or dismissed from employment in said department or office for good cause and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the civil service board, as approved by the governing authority as aforesaid. Any such employee who is dismissed or disciplined shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the Forsyth County Board of Commissioners applicable to the Forsyth County Civil Service Board. Stated further, those procedures pertaining to the filing of an appeal, appeal deadlines, timelines for when appeals must be heard, continuances, and the timeline for which the Civil Service Board must render its opinion following a hearing shall be in accord with those pertinent rules adopted by the Forsyth County Board of Commissioners. The decision of the Civil Service Board shall be binding upon the governing authority of said county as to whether such dismissal or discipline was for proper cause.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572; Ord. No. 41, § 4, 8-10-1987; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 3535; 1988 Ga. Laws, page 5162; Res. of 5-19-2011, § 6; Res. of 11-17-2011, § 1)
Section 7. - Costs and expenses.
All costs for expenses, supplies for the establishment and operation of the civil service system and civil service board shall be borne by the county and paid out of county funds as a cost of administration.
(1978 Ga. Laws, page 3572)
