Chapter 34 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; acquisition and construction of water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5; contracts to provide industrial wastewater treatment services, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-2; public utilities, O.C.G.A. title 46.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Human excrement means the bowel and kidney discharges of human beings.
Sanitary water closet means a flush-type toilet which is connected to a public sewer or a septic tank as required by this chapter.
Septic tank means an underground cavity with watertight walls into which flows the effluent of sanitary water closets and from which effluent does not come to the surface of the ground.
(Code 1974, § 20-1; Code 1991, § 10-1)
Sec. 34-2. - Connection permit.
No person shall make any connection with the city's water and sewerage system without first obtaining a permit therefor from the city clerk.
(Code 1974, § 20-2; Code 1991, § 10-2)
Sec. 34-3. - Miscellaneous ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance relating to tap fees, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1991, § 10-3)
Sec. 34-4. - Water meters required.
All water service shall be fully metered, with only one user to a meter.
(Code 1974, § 20-4; Code 1991, § 10-4)
Sec. 34-5. - Tampering with, damaging, etc., water meters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, alter, damage or remove any water meter, without specific authority from the city clerk or some other duly authorized agent of the city.
(Code 1974, § 20-5; Code 1991, § 10-5)
Sec. 34-6. - No free service.
No water or sewerage service or fire protection service shall be furnished or rendered free of charge to any person or to the city.
(Code 1974, § 20-18; Code 1991, § 10-8)
Sec. 34-7. - Deposit to ensure payment.
(a)
Each customer of the water and sewerage system shall deposit, with the city clerk, security for the prompt payment of all accounts of the subscriber with the system, in the amount established by resolution. The deposit shall be returned to the subscriber upon termination of the services, if all charges due the system have been paid.
(b)
In the event that the subscriber becomes in arrears regarding such charges, then such deposit shall be used, in whole or in part, in liquidation of the same, and the deposit by the subscriber shall be his consent to such use in such an event.
(c)
All such deposits shall be retained in a separate account to be accounted for at the termination of service, except in the case of a subscriber becoming in arrears regarding such charges, at which time the deposit may be withdrawn from the special account and applied to the payment of the delinquent charge.
(Code 1974, § 20-19; Code 1991, § 10-9)
Sec. 34-8. - Rates established.
The monthly charges for water and sewerage service furnished by the water and sewerage system of the city shall be as set by the council from time to time.
(Code 1974, § 20-20; Code 1991, § 10-10)
State Law reference— Authority of city to prescribe and collect rates and charges for use of water and sewer systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
Sec. 34-9. - Charge for fire hydrant and automatic sprinkler service.
The rental for public and private fire hydrant service and the charge for water service to automatic sprinkler systems shall be such as are determined by the mayor and council from time to time.
(Code 1974, § 20-21; Code 1991, § 10-11)
Sec. 34-10. - Reading of meters and rendering of bill.
Water meters shall be read monthly to the nearest 100 gallons and bills rendered monthly based on such reading.
(Code 1974, § 20-22; Code 1991, § 10-12)
Sec. 34-11. - Determination in case of defective meter.
In the event any water meter shall be found to be inoperative at the end of any given billing period, or to be faulty or inaccurate for any reason, the meter will be replaced or repaired as soon as possible, and the bill for water used during the current period shall be the average of the last three monthly bills, unless the user can satisfactorily establish less use for such period.
(Code 1974, § 20-23; Code 1991, § 10-13)
Sec. 34-12. - When and where due and payable.
All bills for water and sewer service shall be due and payable from and after the date such bills are rendered, at the office of the city clerk, or other designated person, during the regular hours of business.
(Code 1974, § 20-24; Code 1991, § 10-14)
Sec. 34-13. - Penalty for delinquency.
If any bill for water service and sewerage service remains due and unpaid for as long as 15 days after rendition, there shall be an additional charge of ten percent added thereto.
(Code 1974, § 20-25; Code 1991, § 10-15)
Sec. 34-14. - Disconnecting service for failure to pay.
(a)
If any bill for water service and sewerage service remains due and unpaid for as long as 30 days, water service and sewerage service to such delinquent customer shall be disconnected and shall not be reconnected until all past due bills, including a cut-on fee in the amount established by resolution, are paid in full. It shall be the duty of the city clerk to notify the operator of the water and sewerage system of such delinquency, and such operator shall proceed immediately to the premises of the customer so in arrears and disconnect the service.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to reconnect water and sewerage service, when it has been disconnected for nonpayment of a bill for service, until such bill has been paid in full, including the cut-on fee.
(Code 1974, § 20-26; Code 1991, § 10-16)
Secs. 34-15—34-31. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SEWER USE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 34-32. - Short title.
This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, "The 1994 Sewer Use Ordinance."
(Code 1991, § 10-31; Ord. of 4-10-1995)
Sec. 34-33. - Scope.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, or the laws of the state will not permit city jurisdiction, this article shall apply not only to customers of the city's sewer service located in the corporate limits of the city, but also to customers of the city's sewer service located outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1991, § 10-32; Ord. of 4-10-1995)
Sec. 34-34. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-500, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, Public Law 95-217, and as subsequently amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which received the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the outer face of the building wall.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal, also called house connection or service connection.
Categorical standard means national pretreatment standards applicable to industrial users specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged to a city owned wastewater treatment works. Categorical standards are established in 40 CFR, chapter I, subchapter N, Effluent Guidelines and Standards.
Chemical oxygen demand means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," expressed in milligrams per liter.
Combined sewer means a sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater or surface water.
Composite sample means the accumulation of a number of individual samples over a period of time, so taken as to represent the nature of the wastewater.
Cooling water means the water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling, refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
County sanitarian means the person designated as such by the county board of health.
Customer means every person who is responsible for contracting (expressly or implicitly) with the city in obtaining, having, or using sewer connections with, or sewer tap to, the sewer system of the city and in obtaining, having, or using water and other related services furnished by the city for the purpose of disposing of wastewater and sewage through said system. Said terms shall include the occupants of each unit of a multiple-family dwelling unit building as a separate and distinct customer.
Designated city representative means the city manager, or his authorized deputy, or representative.
Easement means an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Floatable oil means oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
Flush toilet means the common sanitary flush commode in general use for the disposal of human excrement.
Garbage means the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
General pretreatment regulations means 40 CFR, chapter I, part 403, General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution, as amended.
Grab sample means a sample which is taken from a wastewater stream on a one-time basis with no regard to the flow in the wastewater stream and without consideration of time.
Grease means a group of substances including fats, waxes, free fatty acids, calcium and magnesium soaps, mineral oils, and certain other non-fatty materials.
Grease interceptor means a tank or vessel designated to remove and retain grease and floatable oil from a wastewater stream prior to discharge to a public sewer.
Grit means the heavy suspended mineral matter present in wastewater such as sand or gravel.
Grit interceptor means a tank or vessel designed to interrupt the flow of wastewater so as to cause grit to settle out of the wastewater stream prior to discharge to a public sewer.
Industrial wastes means the wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
Infiltration/inflow means groundwater and surface water which leaks into the sewers through cracked pipes, joints, manholes, or other openings.
Municipality means the governmental body having jurisdiction over the maintenance and operations of the water and sanitary sewer systems within the city and adjacent areas of the county.
Natural outlet means any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surfacewater or groundwater.
Normal wastewater means wastewater discharged into the sanitary sewers in which the average concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 250 milligrams per liter (mg/L), BOD 5 is not more 250 mg/L, total phosphorous is not more than 15 mg/L, total oil and grease is not more than 100 mg/L, total Kjeldahl nitrogen is not more than 20 mg/L, and the total flow is not more 25,000 gallons per day.
Person means any individual, partnership, institution, firm, company, association, society, corporation, trust, estate, group, or any other legal entity.
pH means the reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Pit privy means shored, vertical pit in the earth completely covered with a flytight slab on which is securely located a flytight riser covered with hinged flytight seat and lid.
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public utility.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, and surface water that are not admitted intentionally.
Septic tank means a subsurface impervious tank designed to temporarily retain sewage or similar waterborne wastes together with:
(1)
A sewer line constructed with solid pipe, with the joints sealed, connecting the impervious tank with a plumbing stub out; and
(2)
A subsurface system of trenches, piping, and other materials constructed to drain the clarified discharge from the tank and distribute it underground to be absorbed or filtered.
Sewage means the spent water of a community. The equivalent term is "wastewater," as defined in this section.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
Slug means any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
Storm drain (sometimes termed "storm sewer") means a drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source and excluding sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Suspended solids means total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
Toxic pollutant means any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in 40 CFR, chapter I, section 401.15.
Unpolluted water means water of quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
User means any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of wastewater into public wastewater facilities.
Wastewater means the spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
Wastewater facilities means the structures, equipment, and processes required to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
Wastewater treatment works means an arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with "waste treatment plant," "wastewater treatment plant" or "water pollution control plant."
Watercourse means a natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1991, § 10-33; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § I(1—49))
Sec. 34-35. - Powers and authority of inspectors.
(a)
Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the public wastewater system in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
Duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the public wastewater system.
(c)
The city manager or his designated representative shall have administrative authority over the operations of wastewater facilities which are owned and/or operated by the city.
(d)
The city manager shall designate the city representative who shall be responsible for the enforcement of this article, and shall approve the appointment of inspectors and approve the credentials and identification set forth in subsection (a) of this section. In addition, the city manager shall appoint the hearing officer who shall carry out the provisions of section 34-40(e) related to such officer.
(Code 1991, § 10-34; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § VII(1—4))
Sec. 34-36. - Compliance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions of this article shall not be deemed as alleviating compliance with applicable state and federal regulations. All nonresidential users will be required to comply with pretreatment standards as set forth in 40 CFR part 403, as amended.
(Code 1991, § 10-35; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § VIII(1))
Sec. 34-37. - Service charges.
It is hereby determined necessary to fix and collect sewer service charges from customers. Such charges shall be published separate from this article and the revenue received shall be used for operation, maintenance, debt retirement, and other authorized expenses.
(Code 1991, § 10-36; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § X(1))
Sec. 34-38. - Authority to disconnect service.
(a)
The city reserves the right to terminate water and wastewater disposal services and disconnect a customer from the system when:
(1)
So ordered by the hearing officer as prescribed in section 34-40(f);
(2)
Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment process are released into the public sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
(3)
A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge into a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is discharging wastewater into the public sewer that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
(4)
The customer:
a.
Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation of a permit issued by the approving authority;
b.
Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment process;
c.
Fails to pay monthly bills for sanitary sewer service when due; or
d.
Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes into public sewers.
(b)
Notification processes for discontinuance of service are presented in section 34-40.
(Code 1991, § 10-37; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § XI(1))
Sec. 34-39. - Malicious damage.
No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Code 1991, § 10-38; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § VI(1))
Sec. 34-40. - Violations; penalties.
(a)
Violations of this article shall be punishable as hereinafter provided in subsection (c) of this section. Each day of continuing violation shall be considered a separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of violation.
(b)
In the event of violation of this article, the county sanitarian or designated city representative may verbally instruct the owner as to the necessary corrective action. If the owner fails to carry out verbal instructions in a timely manner or if a serious violation or hazard to public health exists, the county sanitarian or the city may issue to the owner a written order stating the nature of the violation, the corrective action, and the time limit for completing the corrective action. The record of the mailing of the notice or order shall be prima facie evidence thereof and failure of the owner to receive same shall in no way affect the validity of any proceedings conducted pursuant to this article.
(c)
Failure to comply with any written order duly issued by the county sanitarian, the city or the hearing officer pursuant to this article or continuation of any violation hereof beyond the applicable time limit will constitute an offense. Provided further, that compliance with this article is required notwithstanding the fact that a written order might not have been issued.
(d)
The violation of any provisions of this article, as now existing or as may be hereafter amended, may be enjoined by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the courts of competent jurisdiction in the state. Any public nuisance which is injurious to the public health, safety, or comfort may be abated by instituting appropriate proceedings for injunction in the court of competent jurisdiction in the state. Such actions may be maintained notwithstanding the fact that such violation also constitutes a crime, and notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist. Such actions may be instituted in the name of the city.
(e)
Upon the receipt of a notice of a violation of this article and/or an order of the city requiring an act or thing to be done or to cease, the owner of any premises then in question may, in writing, demand a hearing before a hearing officer to present the evidence challenging the validity of the city's order. The owner may appear in person, by agent, or by attorney. Such demand must be filed with the city clerk and be made within five days from the receipt of the order being challenged. Upon receipt of a demand for a hearing, the city will set a date, time, and place for the hearing to be not less than 45 days from the date of filing of the demand. The hearing as provided herein shall apply to any customer's complaint, dispute, or challenge of the city's rules, regulations, resolutions, ordinances, or policies. Upon a customer's written complaint filed with the city clerk, the hearing officer shall set a hearing as provided herein or at a time agreed upon by the parties.
(f)
The hearing officer shall, at such hearing, hear evidence presented by the designated city representative and the owner or customer; and, if the hearing officer determines from such evidence that the violations exist and are of such magnitude that the effectiveness of the city's wastewater treatment works is diminished, then the hearing officer may order water and sewer service to the offending location terminated. However, it shall be within the power of the hearing officer to delay the termination of services for up to 30 calendar days, if, from evidence presented, it appears that the offender will in good faith cure such violations within the time stated in the delay. In the event of any such delayed termination order by the hearing officer, it shall be the duty of the offender within the time specified in the delayed termination order to cure such violations, obtain an affidavit of the designated city representative that the violations have in fact been permanently cured, and present such affidavit to the hearing officer, else, the termination order shall remain effective and city water and sewer services shall be discontinued on the date specified in the order. When city water and sewer services have been terminated under this section, such services shall be provided to the location only upon application to the city for such services in the manner and form required by the city of any new customer, and under city policies relating to the provisions of such services as such policies exist at the time of application. If the hearing officer determines from evidence presented that the violations are less than contended by the city, the hearing officer may modify, alter or cancel previous actions or orders by the city.
(g)
Evidence before the city of any hearing conducted pursuant to subsections (e) and (f) of this section shall be admitted in accordance with the rules of evidence of the superior courts of the state; provided, however, the city may take official notice of any order, rule, regulation, or any other document, record, or entry contained in its official record or minutes for evidentiary purposes.
(h)
For the purposes of this article, the decisions of the city will prevail in any instance in which there is a conflict between it and the county sanitarian on any issue of sanitation, or lack of it, and its effect on human health or well-being.
(Code 1991, § 10-39; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IX(1—8))
Secs. 34-41—34-68. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED

Sec. 34-69. - Human excrement or objectionable waste.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the city, in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human excrement or objectionable waste.
(Code 1991, § 10-61; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § II(1))
Sec. 34-70. - Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1991, § 10-62; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § II(1))
Sec. 34-71. - Construction or maintenance of wastewater disposal facility.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Code 1991, § 10-63; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § II(1))
Sec. 34-72. - Suitable toilet facilities required.
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley, easement or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city and not served by an approved and properly functioning private wastewater disposal system as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived is hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line. Any house, building, or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city which has an approved and properly functioning private wastewater disposal system as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived will not be required by the city to connect to a public sanitary sewer as long as the private wastewater disposal system functions in accordance with requirements of the state department of human resources, the state department of natural resources and the county sanitarian. For septic tanks or other private subsurface disposal facilities, the county sanitarian shall determine if the wastewater disposal system is functioning properly.
(Code 1991, § 10-64; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § II(4))
Sec. 34-73. - Plumbing fixtures, appliances, swimming pool drains and overflows.
All sinks, dishwashing machines, lavatories, basins, shower baths, bathtubs, laundry tubs, washing machines, and similar plumbing fixtures or appliances and swimming pool drains and overflows shall be connected to the public sewer; provided that, where no sewer is available, septic tanks or other private subsurface disposal facilities approved by the county sanitarian may be used.
(Code 1991, § 10-65)
Secs. 34-74—34-104. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL

Sec. 34-105. - Building sewer connection.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of division 2 of this article, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this article and the state department of human resources or the state department of natural resources.
(Code 1991, § 10-81; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(1))
Sec. 34-106. - Written permit required for construction of private wastewater disposal system.
Before commencement of construction on any private wastewater disposal system, except for septic tanks or pit privies, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the designated city representative. Septic tank and pit privy installations are under the jurisdiction of the county sanitarian.
(Code 1991, § 10-82; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(2))
Sec. 34-107. - Septic tanks—Generally.
Septic tanks shall be constructed, repaired, altered, enlarged and maintained in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the county sanitarian. Septic tanks shall be maintained in sanitary working order.
(Code 1991, § 10-83; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(3))
Sec. 34-108. - Septic tanks—Permit; inspection and approval.
(a)
No person shall construct, repair, alter, or enlarge any septic tank unless the person holds a valid permit for such work issued by the county sanitarian. The county sanitarian shall be advised of the site and location of the proposed work.
(b)
Before any septic tank or any part thereof may be covered after it has been constructed, repaired, altered, or enlarged, it shall be inspected and approved by the county sanitarian. A copy of the approval shall be provided to the city by the owner of the private wastewater disposal system.
(Code 1991, § 10-84; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(4))
Sec. 34-109. - Compliance with water pollution control agencies and county sanitarian.
The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all requirements of state and federal water pollution control agencies of jurisdiction and with the county sanitarian. No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 3,750 square feet. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Code 1991, § 10-85; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(5))
Sec. 34-110. - Subsurface disposal facility installation restrictions.
No septic tank or other subsurface disposal facility shall be installed where a public sewer is accessible to the premises involved, nor in any place where the county sanitarian deems the use of same to be a menace to human health or well-being.
(Code 1991, § 10-86; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(6))
Sec. 34-111. - Connection to public sewer when it becomes available.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in this division, and the county sanitarian determines that the private wastewater system is not functioning properly, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days after official notice to do so. Any septic tanks, pit privies, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall then be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(Code 1991, § 10-87; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(7))
Sec. 34-112. - Owner responsible sanitary operation and maintenance.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Code 1991, § 10-88; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(8))
Sec. 34-113. - Restrictions on subsurface disposal facilities.
No subsurface disposal facilities shall be installed in any place where the county sanitarian deems the use of such facilities to be a menace to human health or well-being.
(Code 1991, § 10-89; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(9))
Sec. 34-114. - Flush toilets.
Every flush toilet shall be connected to a public sewer where available, to a septic tank, or other permitted private wastewater disposal system. Flush toilets shall be provided at all times with sufficient running water under pressure to flush the toilet clean after each use.
(Code 1991, § 10-90; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(10))
Sec. 34-115. - Restrictions on pit privies.
No pit privy shall be installed in the following locations:
(1)
Where a public sewer is accessible to the premises involved;
(2)
In areas where the county sanitarian deems the use of pit privies to constitute a nuisance or menace to the public health;
(3)
Where a pit privy may pollute any water supply; or
(4)
Where the use of pit privies is not in keeping with the standard of sanitation in adjacent areas.
(Code 1991, § 10-91; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(11))
Sec. 34-116. - Discharge of septic tank contents in sewer system.
(a)
Restricted. It shall be unlawful to empty, dump or otherwise discharge, into any manhole or other opening, into the city sewer system, or any system connected with and discharging into the city sewer system, the contents of any septic tank, sludge, sewage, or other similar matter or material, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section. Dumpings or contents taken from grease, grit, or oil interceptors are prohibited.
(b)
Permits. The designated city representative is hereby authorized to issue permits to discharge the contents of septic tanks at locations specified by the designated city representative and under his supervision. Such permits may be revoked at any time if, in the opinion of the designated city representative, continued dumping of such matter into the sewers will be injurious to the sewer system or treatment processes. Prior to permit issuance, the designated city representative may require a complete analysis of waste products to be discharged to determine compatibility with the treatment process. The analysis will be at the expense of the person requesting the discharge permit.
(c)
Charges. A charge shall be made for the privilege of dumping the contents of septic tanks in the amount as established by resolution. A record shall be kept of such dumpings. Fees for dumping shall be paid prior to the city accepting the waste material.
(Code 1991, § 10-92; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(12))
Sec. 34-117. - Correction of nonfunctioning disposal system within specified time period.
Any premises that has a septic tank, privy, or any other sewage, industrial waste, or liquid waste disposal system, located thereon that does not function in a sanitary manner shall be corrected within 60 days from the receipt of written notification from the county sanitarian, the state or the city that the system is not functioning in a sanitary manner, and order that the system be corrected.
(Code 1991, § 10-93; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(13))
Sec. 34-118. - Additional requirements.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the county sanitarian or the state.
(Code 1991, § 10-94; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § III(14))
Secs. 34-119—34-149. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS

Sec. 34-150. - Permits—Generally.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city
(Code 1991, § 10-111; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(1))
Sec. 34-151. - Permits—Types; application; fee.
(a)
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
(1)
For residential and commercial service; and
(2)
For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(b)
In either case, the owner or owner's agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the designated city representative. A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial building or an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Code 1991, § 10-112; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(2))
Sec. 34-152. - Installation and connection costs responsibility of owner.
All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Code 1991, § 10-113; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(3))
Sec. 34-153. - Separate building sewer provided per building; exceptions.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Code 1991, § 10-114; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(4))
Sec. 34-154. - Usage of existing building sewers for new buildings.
Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the designated city representative, to meet all requirements of this division.
(Code 1991, § 10-115; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(5))
Sec. 34-155. - Requirements for method and materials of construction.
(a)
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in construction, shall all conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9, latest edition, shall apply.
(b)
Additionally, the following materials and methods shall apply to building sewers within the city:
(1)
The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM Specification A 74, latest revision, or equal; ductile iron pipe, American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Specification A21.51, latest revision, or equal; extra strength clay pipe, ASTM Specification C 700, latest revision, or plastic PVC Specification D 3034 SDR35, latest revision. All joints shall be tight and waterproof.
(2)
Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a potable water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may also be required by the designated city representative where the sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe, except that nonmetallic pipe may be acceptable if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the designated city representative.
(3)
The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the designated city representative, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
(4)
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost, and the building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and with straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings. Building sewers shall not be placed in the same trench with water service lines.
(5)
An excavation required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the designated city representative. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Specification C 12, latest revision, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
(6)
All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(7)
Push-on joints for cast iron soil pipe shall have rubber gaskets in accordance with the requirements of ASTM Specification C 564, latest revision.
(8)
Push-on joints for ductile iron pipe shall also have rubber gaskets in accordance with ANSI Specification A21.11, latest revision, and be installed according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
(9)
Compression joints for clay pipe shall be in accordance with ASTM Specification C 425, latest revision.
(10)
Compression joints for plastic pipe shall be in accordance with ASTM Specifications D 3212 and F 477, latest revisions.
(11)
The city will place a clean out on each building sewer installed or repaired after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived. The clean out will be located on the public side as near as practical to the crossing of the building sewer from private property into public property, rights-of-way or easements.
(12)
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the "Y" branch, if such a branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located "Y" branch is available, the city shall, at the owner's expense, cut a neat hole into the public sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees, and install a 45-degree elbow with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at an elevation of at least one-tenth of a foot above the invert of the public sewer. A neat smooth joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the designated city representative.
(13)
The installation of all building sewers and connections to be public sewer shall conform with all pertinent Occupational Health and Safety Act (OSHA) requirements.
(Code 1991, § 10-116; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(6))
Sec. 34-156. - Elevation at which building sewer shall be brought to building.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be built parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Code 1991, § 10-117; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(7))
Sec. 34-157. - Approval required for connection of sources of surface runoff or groundwater to building sewer or drain.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the designated city representative for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Code 1991, § 10-118; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(8))
Sec. 34-158. - Requirements for connection of building sewer into public sewer.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, latest edition. All such connections shall be made as gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the designated city representative before installation.
(Code 1991, § 10-119; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(9))
Sec. 34-159. - Connection and testing.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the designated city representative when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the designated city representative.
(Code 1991, § 10-120; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(10))
Sec. 34-160. - Guarding excavations; restoration of public property.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades, lights and other devices so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Code 1991, § 10-121; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(11))
Sec. 34-161. - Availability and cost defined by city.
The city will define the availability of sewers and any costs associated with sewer permits or construction.
(Code 1991, § 10-122; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(12))
Sec. 34-162. - Infiltration or inflow.
If any building sewer permits the entrance of infiltration or inflow, the city may:
(1)
Require the owner to repair the building sewer.
(2)
Charge the owner a sewer rate that reflects the costs of the additional expense of sewage treatment from the owner's property.
(3)
Require the owner to disconnect his sewer from the city sewer system.
(Code 1991, § 10-123; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § IV(13))
Secs. 34-163—34-192. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - RESTRICTED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS

Sec. 34-193. - Unpolluted waters prohibited in any sewer; exception.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters, such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters, to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited areas such as solid waste dumpster pads, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the designated city representative.
(Code 1991, § 10-141; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(1))
Sec. 34-194. - Stormwater other than that exempted in section 34-193 and other unpolluted drainage.
Stormwater other than that exempted under section 34-139 and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the designated city representative and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling or condensing water may be discharged, on approval of the designated city representative and the state environmental protection division, to a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
(Code 1991, § 10-142; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(2))
Sec. 34-195. - Sanitary wastewater prohibited in storm sewer system.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any sanitary wastewater into a storm sewer system.
(Code 1991, § 10-143; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(3))
Sec. 34-196. - Specific waters and wastes prohibited in public sewers.
No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
(1)
Any gasoline, kerosene, benzene, naptha, acetone, toluene, turpentine, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, sulfides, fuel oil, mineral spirits or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
(2)
Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
(3)
Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment works.
(4)
Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, grinding and polishing wastes, sand, mud, grass clippings, leaves, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, fibers, feathers, tar, plastics, rubber, latex, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, offal, paper or plastic dishes and cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Code 1991, § 10-144; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(4))
Sec. 34-197. - Specific substances, materials, waters or wastes to be limited in discharge to municipal systems.
The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which will not, either singly or by interaction with other substances, harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The designated city representative may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the regulations below if in his opinion such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability, the designated city representative will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the city are as follows:
(1)
Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius) or wastewater which will elevate the temperature of the influent to the city wastewater treatment works 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) or higher.
(2)
Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin.
(3)
Wastewater containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of oils, fat, grease, or wax, whether emulsified or not, or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees Fahrenheit (zero degrees Celsius) and 150 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
(4)
Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see section 34-34, definition of "properly shredded garbage"). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, motels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
(5)
Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals and similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material at the point of discharge exceeds the limits established herein:
EXPAND
Cadmium 0.009 mg/L.
Chromium (total) 2.29 mg/L.
Copper 0.11 mg/L.
Cyanide 0.048 mg/L.
Lead 0.017 mg/L.
Mercury 0.000038 mg/L.
Nickel 1.33 mg/1.
Silver 0.00024 mg/L.
Zinc 0.82 mg/L.
  Or any element which, in the judgement of the designated city representative, will damage collection facilities or be detrimental to the treatment process. The limits set forth above may be amended if such amendment is deemed necessary to protect the facilities or life or health and/or to comply with applicable state or federal regulations.
(6)
All industrial discharges to the city sewer system must comply with the federal industrial pretreatment standards (40 CFR parts 401 to 471) and those industrial pretreatment standards established or set by the state environmental protection division.
(7)
Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding limits which may be established by the designated city representative.
(8)
Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
(9)
Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a "slug" as defined in section 34-34.
(10)
Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to receiving waters.
(11)
Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other wastes or waters in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form solids which interfere with collection system, or create a condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(12)
Materials which exert or cause:
a.
Any unusual concentration of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
b.
Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
c.
Unusual BOD (above 250 mg/L), biochemical oxygen demand, in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment plant.
d.
Unusual suspended solids (above 250 mg/L) in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment plant.
(Code 1991, § 10-145; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(5))
Sec. 34-198. - Options of city should prohibited or restricted waters or wastes be discharged or proposed to be discharged.
If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in section 34-197 and which, in the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
(1)
Reject the wastes;
(2)
Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;
(3)
Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
(4)
Require surcharge payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the wastes.
(Code 1991, § 10-146; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(6))
Sec. 34-199. - Interceptors.
Grease, oil, and grit interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the designated city representative and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Except when specifically permitted by the designated city representative, interceptors shall be located outside of buildings. In the maintenance of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the designated city representative. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Code 1991, § 10-147; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(7))
Sec. 34-200. - Installation of suitable structure, meters and other appurtenances to observe, sample and measure wastes.
When required by the designated city representative, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, protected against vandalism, supplied with electrical current and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the designated city representative. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1991, § 10-148; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(8))
Sec. 34-201. - Industrial users required to provide compliance information.
The industrial users may be required to provide information needed to determine compliance with this division. These requirements may include:
(1)
Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time period;
(2)
Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
(3)
Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting wastewater volume and quality;
(4)
Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent, or other materials important to sewer use control;
(5)
A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and pretreatment facility location;
(6)
Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
(7)
Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials through spills to the public sewer.
(Code 1991, § 10-149; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(9))
Sec. 34-202. - Measurements, tests, analyses, sampling methods, locations, times, durations and frequencies.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this division shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association. Sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the designated city representative.
(Code 1991, § 10-150; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(10))
Sec. 34-203. - Exceptions.
No statement contained in this division shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment provided that all applicable state and federal pretreatment requirements are met.
(Code 1991, § 10-151; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(11))
Sec. 34-204. - Pretreatment of wastes.
Persons discharging industrial wastes into the sewerage system may be required to pretreat such wastes. Plans for all pretreatment facilities shall be approved by the designated city representative and the state environmental protection division prior to construction. At the time written plans are submitted for approval, written maintenance plans shall also be submitted and approved by the designated city representative. The facilities shall be allowed to operate only as long as they are maintained in accordance with the approved maintenance plans. Pretreatment requirements shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and shall include the following facilities as a minimum:
(1)
Screening. Screens shall be required ahead of the receiving manhole of the city sewerage system when deemed necessary by the designated city representative to prevent excess suspended solids from reaching the city system.
(2)
Neutralization. If plans are submitted for the neutralization of strong acid or alkaline wastes, the plans shall include the necessary instrumentation and controls to ensure compliance with the above regulations at all times.
(3)
Equalization. Holding tanks or equalization basins shall be required ahead of the receiving manhole of the city sewerage system when deemed necessary by the designated city representative to prevent peak flows that exceed the capacity of the system or that result in operational problems.
(Code 1991, § 10-152; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(12))
Sec. 34-205. - Waiver of requirements.
There shall be no provision for the granting of variances for discharge of incompatible wastes. If a user begins to violate any of the provisions of this division, it shall be his responsibility to apply to the designated city representative who can issue a temporary permit along with a compliance schedule for planning and construction of necessary treatment or pretreatment works. Each case will be carefully evaluated with respect to its effect on the wastewater treatment system and the environment prior to issuance of a temporary permit and compliance schedule.
(Code 1991, § 10-153; Ord. of 4-10-1995, § V(13))
