Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction standards generally, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; providing of fire escapes by building owners, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-50; access to and use of public facilities by physically disabled persons, O.C.G.A. § 30-3-1 et seq.; authority to repair, close or demolish unfit buildings or structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Interpretation of chapter.
This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety and welfare, and all its provisions shall be liberally construed for that purpose. This chapter shall be construed together with the other provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the city relating to the construction and use of buildings and structures, and in the event of conflicts with those provisions or ordinances, the provision deemed to achieve the greatest promotion of the public welfare shall be deemed controlling.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-1), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-2. - Penalties for violations.
Any person convicted in the municipal court of the violation of any of the terms of this chapter or the codes adopted hereby shall be punished as provided in section 1-6. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-2), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official or building inspector means the qualified building official, code enforcement officer or qualified building inspector as designated by the city.
Code enforcement officer means the code enforcement official as designated by the city.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-3), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-4. - Technical building and construction codes adopted.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided for by subsequent ordinance or another provision of this Code, the technical building and construction codes listed in this section are adopted by reference and incorporated into this Code as if set out fully herein, including the administration and appendix chapters also contained in those codes. The state minimum codes enumerated under O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9), as now or hereafter revised or modified pursuant to state law are as follows:
(1)
International Building Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015.
(2)
International Residential Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015, including Prescriptive Deck Details.
(3)
International Fire Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015.
(4)
International Plumbing Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015.
(5)
International Mechanical Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015.
(6)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014 and 2015.
(7)
National Electrical Code, 2014 edition.
(8)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments 2011 and 2012.
(9)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2015.
(10)
International Existing Building Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2015.
(11)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2012 edition, with Georgia Amendments 2014.
(b)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq., then the state minimum code shall control.
(c)
The copies of each of the publications listed in subsection (a) of this section are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which the ordinance from which this section is derived shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-4), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-5. - Officials.
When reference is made in the technical codes adopted by this chapter to the duties of certain officials named therein, then the designated official of the city who has duties corresponding to those of the named official in such codes shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such codes are concerned. The term "governing body" or "applicable governing body" as used in any of these codes shall refer in each instance to the mayor and city council.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-5), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-6. - Copies available; maintenance.
The copy of the codes and amendments adopted under this chapter and filed with the office of the city manager shall be municipal property and shall be preserved by the city manager and the city clerk and maintained in a manner convenient for public examination and use and shall be open to public examination and use in the office of the city clerk during regular business hours, but shall not be taken out of the office for any reason except for use in a trial of an issue related to the terms of this chapter, before the municipal court, the zoning board of appeals or the courts of the state.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-6), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-7. - Fees.
Fees imposed under this chapter, and the codes adopted by this chapter, shall be as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-7), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-8. - Violations; presumption violator is owner.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this chapter or the terms and standards adopted by reference thereby, to permit or maintain such violation, to refuse to obey any provision thereof, or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or regulation except as variation may be allowed by action of the zoning board of appeals in writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure to act or failure to comply shall be deemed prima facie evidence that such act or omission is the act of the owner of the property. Prosecution, or lack thereof, of either the owner or the occupant shall not be deemed to relieve the other.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-8), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-9. - Enforcement; interpretations of rules; request for variance.
The building inspector shall have the responsibility for making interpretations of the rules adopted by this chapter, and for deciding upon the approval of equipment and materials, and for the granting of the special permission contemplated in a number of the rules. Any person aggrieved by the rulings of the building inspector or the fire chief with respect to this chapter may appeal for a variance to the zoning board of appeals as provided in section 8-10. In conducting inspections of buildings, the building inspector shall apply the standards adopted by this chapter.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-9), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-10. - Noncompliance; notice of violation; appeals; order to vacate.
In the event that the building inspector, fire chief or code enforcement officer shall find deviations from or noncompliance with the terms and standards adopted by this chapter, either one may issue a written notice of violation, which shall be posted on the premises, and a copy of which shall be mailed to the last-known address of the owner of the premises. An appeal from the notice of violation may be made in a request for variance to the zoning board of appeals within 30 days of the date of issuance. Notice of violation may, in the event the fire chief or the building inspector determines that there is a clear, present, immediate and dangerous hazardous condition, dangerous to life, include an order to vacate the premises, and noncompliance with such an order shall be a violation of this chapter.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-10), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-11. - Nuisance abatement proceedings following failure to correct violations.
In the event of failure or refusal to correct the conditions specified in the notice of violation within 30 days, then, upon the request of either the building inspector or the fire chief, the city council may initiate proceedings under the nuisance provisions of this Code to abate the condition complained of as a public nuisance.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-11), 5-9-2016)
Sec. 8-12. - Request for variance; automatic stay of nuisance abatement proceedings or prosecutions; exception for clear and present danger.
The taking of a request for variance to the zoning board of appeals shall operate to stay any prosecution brought for violations of the terms of this chapter until the zoning board of appeals shall have decided not to grant the variance, and shall stay any proceedings before the city and council under the nuisance provisions of this Code, provided that such a request for variance shall not stay any prosecution for noncompliance with an order to vacate the premises based upon the determination in section 8-10 that the violation is a clear, present, immediate and dangerous hazardous condition, dangerous to life.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-12), 5-9-2016)
Secs. 8-13—8-42. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ULTRA-LOW-FLOW PLUMBING FIXTURES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Water efficiency requirements, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; flow rate restrictions on plumbing fixtures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3.

Sec. 8-43. - Statutes adopted.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3 are adopted by reference.
Sec. 8-44. - Exception.
(a)
The city manager or designee may grant an exemption from the provision of O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3(c) relative to new construction and to the repair or renovation of an existing building, under the following conditions:
(1)
When the repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets, or showerheads within such existing building;
(2)
When such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design, or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets, or showerheads required by O.C.G.A. § 8-2-3 were installed;
(3)
When such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
When units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by persons with disabilities;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
In order to obtain the exemption provided for in subsection (a) of this section, a person must file a written application with the city manager or designee.
( Ord. No. 04-1-2016(3) , att.(9-49), 5-9-2016)
Secs. 8-45—8-61. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FENCES

Sec. 8-62. - Purpose.
This article provides uniform standards for the erection and maintenance of fences. All fences in this article shall be erected and maintained in accordance with these standards. The general objective of these standards is to promote health, safety, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of the public, to improve and maintain the long-term sustainability of the community in part to achieve safety, and to promote the safety of persons and property by providing that fences do not:
(1)
Create a hazard due to collapse, fire, decay or abandonment;
(2)
Obstruct firefighting and police observation ability;
(3)
Create traffic hazards by confusing or distracting pedestrians or motorists;
(4)
Block or impede access/easement to public utilities, including, but not limited to, water lines, sewage lines, or fire hydrants;
(5)
Become obstacles that hinder the ability of pedestrians, bicyclists, or motorists.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-1)
Sec. 8-63. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Approved fence materials mean materials normally manufactured for, used as, and recognized as fencing materials. Fence materials must also be materials approved for exterior use and are weather- and decay-resistant. The provisions of this article are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this article, provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material, design or method of construction shall be approved where the code enforcement officer finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this Code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this article in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability, and safety.
Corner lot means a lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
Dilapidated fence means a fence which is decayed, deteriorated, or fallen into partial ruin.
Director means the city code enforcement officer and his designee.
Easement means a right created by grant, reservation, agreement, prescription, or necessary implication, which one has in the land of another. An easement is either for the benefit of appurtenant land such as for the right to cross, or egress, such as a public utility easement, or in specific, such as an exclusive utility easement. An easement may or may not have descriptive bounds.
Fence means any wall or structure more than 12 inches in height erected or maintained for the purpose of enclosing, partitioning, screening, restricting access to or decorating the enclosed lot, parcel, building or structure, or which divides any yard.
Fence structure means any part of a fence, including the base, footings, supporting columns, braces, structural members or any other of its appendages.
Front yard means a yard extending across the full width of the lot, and situated between the right-of-way line of the abutting street and the front line of the principal building.
Game court means a structure having a playing surface, paved or unpaved, with or without enclosing fences, designed to be used for playing or practicing tennis, badminton, volleyball, baseball, basketball, or similar games.
Interior lot means a lot situated in a block with frontage on only one street and specifically not a corner lot.
Interior lot line means a side yard lot line that is adjacent to a corner lot or an interior lot's side yard line.
Outside storage means the storage of commodities, goods and/or refuse outside of an enclosed building.
Public right-of-way means a strip of land which is used as a roadbed for a street, alley or highway intended for use by the public at large, or land set aside as an easement or in fee, either by agreement or condemnation.
Rear yard means a yard extending across the full width of the lot at the rear line of the principal building, from the rear line of the lot to the nearest point of the principal building.
Residential district means a district zoned for residential use in the city zoning ordinance, excluding multifamily.
Retaining wall means a wall designed to bear against soil or other material and resists lateral and other forces from the material held in place.
Reverse frontage corner lot means a corner lot where the rear lot line is adjacent to a side lot line of an adjoining lot or across an alley from such side lot line.
Setback means the distance from the property line or the right-of-way line of all streets adjacent to the premises on which a fence is located to the part of the fence closest to the property line or right-of-way line.
Side yard means an open, unoccupied space between the principal building and side line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the lot of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Street means a public way for vehicular traffic, which is open to the general public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Vision or visibility triangle means that an imaginary area is created by measuring along two intersecting property lines. The vision triangle is determined by measuring back from the intersecting point of the two property lines parallel to the intersecting streets a distance of 35 feet, and drawing an imaginary line across these two points.
Yard means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-2)
Sec. 8-64. - Permit required.
No fence shall be erected without a permit from the city and payment of applicable fees.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-3)
Sec. 8-65. - Encroachment on public or private property.
No person shall construct a fence, guy wire, brace and/or fence post directly upon or protruding over a public right-of-way or private property line or property that the city or the general public has dominion and control over, owns or has an easement over, under, around or through an adjacent private property line. It is an affirmative defense to this section that the property is a utility easement and the proposed fence location is approved by the utility company. (See section 8-67.)
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-4)
Sec. 8-66. - Fence not to create a traffic hazard.
It is unlawful to erect, maintain, suffer or permit any fence on any corner lot in such a manner as to create a traffic hazard due to interference with sight lines. Required sight lines must comply with state department of transportation and the American Association of State Highway and Transportation (AASHTO) standards. Failure of the owner, agent or occupant to remove such obstruction within ten days after receipt of notice to do so is a violation of this article.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-5)
Sec. 8-67. - Construction within easements.
(a)
Permission to build a fence upon a utility easement does not remove the obligation of the owner of the fence to remove the fence upon demand of the utility company. The owner of the fence shall remove and rebuild the fence at the owner's expense.
(b)
The owner of a fence shall be responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of the fence and for ensuring the fence is located so as not to interfere with utility lines or normal drainage.
(c)
Permission to build a fence upon a utility easement must be granted in writing by the utility company.
(d)
No fence shall be placed on a right-of-way containing underground utilities or on a city right-of-way.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-6)
Sec. 8-68. - Relocation or construction of private fences related to public improvement projects.
Fences relocated or constructed due to construction of a public improvement project (e.g., road widening project) may be located as close as practical on or inside the new property line and must comply with the installation standards required by this article. This section does not permit any obstruction which may create traffic or other safety hazard. The owner of the fence shall comply with all other requirements of this article.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-7)
Sec. 8-69. - Height limitation.
It is unlawful for any person to construct, erect, maintain, suffer, or permit a fence that exceeds the height limitation of this section. Height shall be measured from the finished grade at any point 18 inches or less from either side of the fence.
(1)
Rear yard, rear lot line, side yard, or side lot line outside front yard area.
a.
Residential lot: six feet.
b.
Commercial lot: ten feet.
c.
Industrial lot: ten feet.
(2)
Front yard, front lot line, wide lot line in front yard area.
a.
Permitted fences. Fences are not permitted in the front yard or front setback area except as follows:
1.
The fence is 48 inches or less in height measured from the finished grade at any point 18 inches or less from either side of the fence, and the fence allows at least 50 percent through vision, exception is picket fencing.
2.
In the case of a corner lot and when the fence is located in a vision triangle the fence is 36 inches or less in height measured from the finished grade at any point 18 inches or less from either side of the fence, and the fence allows at least 50 percent through vision, with a triangular area formed by the intersection of the adjacent street right-of-way lines and a point on each such right-of-way line 35 feet from the intersection.
3.
That the vertical support posts and gates do not extend more than four inches above the top of the fence intersection.
b.
Materials. No chainlink, agriculture fencing or concrete block in residential front yards.
(3)
Dumpsters. A screening fence or wall used to screen trash dumpsters on a commercial or industrial lot shall not exceed ten feet in height.
(4)
Commercial and industrial equipment and lot screening.
a.
The intent of commercial and industrial lot screening is to ensure that items that cannot be enclosed within a building are screened on all sides from the view of adjacent rights-of-way and residential zoning districts.
b.
In all commercial and industrial districts, boundary landscaping shall be provided along the abutting public rights-of-way (except alleys). Such landscaping shall consist of a combination of ground covers and deciduous and evergreen shrubs and may also include trees, provided that they will not obstruct sight distances or vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No specific spacing shall be required for boundary landscaping, provided that the landscaping is appropriate to the character of the site.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-8)
Sec. 8-70. - Construction on reverse frontage lots.
(a)
On all reverse frontage lots located on property zoned or used for residential purposes, it is unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, suffer or permit a fence within the required side yard area that is adjacent to a front yard area at a distance closer than 15 feet from and perpendicular to the side property line or right-of-way.
(b)
It is an affirmative defense to subsection (a) of this section:
(1)
That the fence is 48 inches or less in height measured from the finished grade at any point 18 inches or less from either side of the fence, and the fence allows at least 50 percent through vision.
(2)
In the case of a corner lot and when the fence is located in a vision triangle, the fence is 36 inches or less in height measured from the finished grade at any point 18 inches or less from either side of the fence, and the fence allows at least 50 percent through vision, within a triangular area formed by the intersection of the adjacent street right-of-way lines and a point on each such right-of-way line 35 feet from the intersection.
(3)
If any commercial or industrial property abuts a residential property, with the exception of an agricultural property, any fences on the commercial or industrial property must comply with the residential requirements of this section.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-9)
Sec. 8-71. - Game courts and game court fences.
(a)
No person shall locate a game court or game court fence on a lot, within a front yard, between a principal residence and a front setback line, or over or on top of any building or structure unless approved as a site-specific zoning case or approved by a variance in accordance with section 8-74. To obtain a variance to this subsection, the applicant must prove that such court or fence will not have a substantial adverse visual impact on the surrounding neighborhood and will not have an adverse impact on public safety.
(b)
No person shall construct a game court on a pad that is not level.
(c)
Not withstanding any other regulation set forth in this article, no person shall construct a game court fence that is more than 12 feet in height in or adjacent to a residentially zoned district or 16 feet in height in a non-residentially zoned district.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other regulation set forth in this Code, no person shall construct game court lighting that creates a glare on adjacent property.
(e)
Construction of a game court fence must be of chainlink or similar materials approved by the zoning administrator. It is an affirmative defense to this subsection that the fence includes a retaining wall that does not exceed a height of eight feet provided that the cumulative height of the retaining wall and the fence does not exceed the height requirements of subsection (c) of this section.
(f)
Court fences and lighting standards shall be engineered to withstand the wind load and soil conditions required by the building code.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-10)
Sec. 8-72. - Fence construction and materials.
(a)
No person shall construct a fence that is not able to structurally support fencing materials.
(b)
A person building a fence to enclose an area shall provide a gate or other opening to the fence of at least four feet in width.
(c)
A person building a fence shall comply with the requirements of the building code and all other city ordinances with regard to construction, material, and workmanship.
(d)
A person constructing a fence shall build it of rigid construction with acceptable materials.
(e)
A person constructing a masonry fence shall make the exterior surfaces free from sharp projections.
(f)
A person applying a stain, pigment, paint or other surface treatment to a wooden fence shall use materials and finishes specifically manufactured for the purpose of preserving a specific wooden material.
(g)
No person shall construct a wall or fence that exceeds two feet in thickness, unless approved by the zoning administrator.
(h)
A person constructing a fence shall use only approved materials and construction methods that ensure uniform construction throughout. Once the person has established a pattern of materials and construction method he shall carry it out throughout the entire length of the section from corner post to corner post.
(i)
A person constructing or maintaining a fence or wall enclosure around a swimming pool, hot tub, or spa shall do so in accordance with minimum requirements set forth in the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ISPSC) as well as O.C.G.A. § 31-45-13, and the rules and regulations of the state department of public health. Swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas existing prior to the adoption of this article are subject to these same requirements.
(j)
A person constructing a fence with boards shall use species such as cedar, or other durable decay-resistant composition, such as treated lumber.
(k)
A person constructing a fence shall install the finished sides of all fences facing outward (that is neighboring properties).
(l)
A person constructing a fence shall comply with any covenants or restriction of record.
(m)
No person shall construct a barbed wire or electric fence within a residential subdivision.
(n)
Any person constructing a fence shall call the utility protection agency to ensure that any necessary utility locates are conducted.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-11)
Sec. 8-73. - Maintenance and standard of fences.
Fences, including those existing prior to the adoption of this article, shall be maintained by the owner of the property in compliance with the requirements of this article, including, but not limited to, the following maintenance standards:
(1)
The owner shall replace broken, damaged, removed or missing parts of a fence within ten days of the day the owner receives notice from the code enforcement officer, with the same material, or material with comparable composition, color, size, shape and quality of the original fence to which the repair is being made. The code enforcement officer may, upon written notice from the owner that unusual circumstances prevent the timely repair of a fence, extend the replacement time as required. The code enforcement officer shall not extend the replacement time longer than reasonably necessary. No person shall use materials not specifically manufactured as fencing materials.
(2)
A fence shall be maintained in sound structural condition.
(3)
Property owners shall not maintain graffiti, writings, and other symbols on a fence.
(4)
Existing fences that were constructed prior to the adoption of this article that were constructed with materials not currently permitted by this article may be maintained as long as no part of the fence is or becomes unsafe, dilapidated, or a public nuisance. If the code enforcement officer determines the existing fence is unsafe, dilapidated, or a public nuisance, the fence must be repaired with materials approved by this article or removed. The repairs must be made in complete sections. If the code enforcement officer determines the extent of repair on any existing fence (materials in noncompliance) is in excess of 50 percent of the linear length of the total fence or more than a combined 100 linear feet, then the entire fence must be replaced with materials approved by this article.
(5)
The construction of a fence or wall on the property line shall not preclude the property owner's responsibility to maintain and keep the area defined between the property line in the back of curb or edge of the pavement free and clear of debris and high weeds.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-12)
Sec. 8-74. - Variance procedures.
(a)
A variance to the procedures of this article may be granted in the following areas:
(1)
Height regulations;
(2)
Area regulations;
(3)
Setback regulations; and
(4)
Material regulations.
(b)
In order to grant a variance to the provisions of this article, it must be determined that:
(1)
The requested variance does not violate the intent of this article;
(2)
The requested variance will not adversely affect surrounding properties;
(3)
The requested variance will not adversely affect public safety; and
(4)
Special conditions exist which are unique to this applicant or property.
( Res. of 9-21-2020 , § 1-13)
