PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
An Act to reincorporate the City of Bowdon in the County of Carroll; to create a new charter for the city; to prescribe the corporate limits of the city; to provide for the government of the city; to enumerate the corporate powers of the city; to provide for the preservation of ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations; to provide for the officials of said city and their selection, oath, compensation, powers, duties and terms of office; to provide for filling vacancies; to provide for the fiscal administration of the city government; to provide for the levy and collection of ad valorem taxes; to provide for elections; to provide for the qualifications of candidates and electors; to provide for the registration of voters; to provide for the method of conducting elections; to provide for the establishment of a recorder's court; to provide for the election of the recorder; to provide for the qualifications and compensation of the recorder; to provide for the jurisdiction of the recorder's court; to provide for appeals from the recorder's court; to provide for the payment of court costs; to provide for rules for the recorder's court; to provide for severability; to repeal specific laws; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia:
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this subpart is the city Charter, being 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 669), page 3654. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions; however, some city amendments do not bear a history note. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original, as modified by the city. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, and expression of numbers has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1.01. - Reincorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Bowdon, Georgia, repealing and replacing the charter approved August 12, 1910 (Ga. L. 1910, p. 408), as amended, particularly by an Act approved July 19, 1912 (Ga. L. 1912, p. 642), an Act approved August 8, 1922 (Ga. L. 1922, p. 598), an Act approved August 11, 1924 (Ga. L. 1924, p. 453), an Act approved March 4, 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, p. 1515), an Act approved March 24, 1939 (Ga. L. 1939, p. 901), an Act approved March 24, 1941 (Ga. L. 1941, p. 1188), an Act approved February 19, 1951 (Ga. L. 1951, p. 2626), an Act approved February 24, 1951 (Ga. L. 1951, p. 2911), an Act approved March 2, 1953 (Ga. L. 1953, p. 2897), an Act approved March 7, 1957 (Ga. L. 1957, p. 2804), an Act approved March 21, 1958 (Ga. L. 1958, p. 3005), an Act approved April 9, 1963 (Ga. L. 1963, p. 3207), an Act approved March 24, 1970 (Ga. L. 1970, p. 3362).
Sec. 1.02. - Corporate boundaries.
The corporate limits of the city shall be described as follows:
"A circle, the radius of which is five thousand two hundred and eighty (5,280) feet, and the center of which is the point where East College Street meets West College Street and Wedowee Street meets North Carroll Street (these streets at times prior to 1973, have been known as Carrollton Street, Main Street or College Street, Wedowee Street and Rome Street, respectively). The area of the circle described in this subsection shall be three and one thousand four hundred and sixteen-ten thousandths (3.1416) square miles or two thousand and ten (2,010) acres.''
Editor's note— Changes to the existing description have occurred thru annexation of new property into the city.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate powers.
(a)
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the mayor and council as defined in section 2.01, shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1)
Taxation. To levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, reevaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation for state and county purposes; and to contract with any city, county or other governmental or political subdivision for any service in connection with the taxation process authorized by Georgia law, including without limitation, the ministerial acts of billing and collection of city ad valorem taxes.
(2)
Occupational licenses. To levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions.
(3)
Financing; appropriations. To appropriate and borrow money, to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose, or for matters of national or state interest, and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issues by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken. Whenever the city shall desire to create a bonded debt for the purpose of carrying into effect any of the powers and provisions of this charter, it shall have the right and authority to do so when authorized by a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election.
State Law reference— Municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-38-1 et seq., 36-82-1 et seq.
(4)
Acquisition and disposal of property. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(5)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside of the city, for present or future use, and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the mayor and council, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia of 1933 [now repealed—See generally O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or under other applicable public acts.
(6)
Utilities. To acquire, construct, operate, distribute, sell and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a waterworks system, sewerage system, natural gas system and an electrical power system, both inside and outside the corporate limits, subject to the provisions of applicable state and federal laws and regulations. For water, gas, electricity and for all sewerage and sanitary service rendered, the city may prescribe regulations, standards, conditions of service to be provided, and the charges, rates, fares, and fees to be paid. If any charges, rates, fares, or fees are not paid, the unpaid amount shall constitute a lien against any property of the persons served and the service may be terminated; the lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and with the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes. The city may extend any of its utility services and facilities, including natural gas utilities, outside the limits of the city and into the adjacent areas within Carroll County, Georgia.
State Law reference— Acquisition and construction of water and sewage systems, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-5.
(7)
Franchises. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, but not limited to those stated above, not to exceed periods of 30 years. The mayor and council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with laws of the State of Georgia.
(8)
Public property and improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, airports, hospitals and charitable, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, and curative, correctional, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities; and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be acquired by condemnation under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia [of] 1933 [now repealed—See generally O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or other applicable public acts.
(9)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(10)
Garbage and refuse removal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse and to have the power and authority to take all necessary and proper means for keeping the city free from garbage, trash and filth. Charges or fees may be imposed to cover the costs of such services, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a debt and shall have a lien against any property of the persons served; said lien to be enforceable in the same manner, and under the same remedies, as a lien for city property taxes.
(11)
Police power. To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental or likely to be detrimental to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
(12)
Nuisances. To define a nuisance in the city and to provide for its abatement. The recorder of the city shall have jurisdiction over all nuisance abatement proceedings in the city. The mayor and council may provide by ordinance for any building, structure, or condition maintained in violation of any valid law of the state or any valid ordinance of the city, to be adjudged a nuisance and for its abatement at the owner's expense upon his failure or refusal to abate the same within ten days after written notice from the city to do so and after an opportunity to be heard on same.
(13)
Construction of buildings. To establish minimum standards for, and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, plumbing, natural gas installation, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(14)
Zoning and planning. To adopt by ordinance a plan or plans for the zoning of the city in the interest of public health, safety, order, convenience, comfort, aesthetics, prosperity, or general welfare, and for the purpose of regulating the location of trades, industries, apartment houses, dwellings, or other uses of property; or for the purpose of regulating the height and location of the buildings, fences or other structures; or for the purpose of regulating the alignment of buildings or other structures near street frontages; or for the purpose of preserving buildings, structures or areas having national, regional, state or local historic significance; or for the purpose of maintaining or improving the aesthetic appearance of any buildings, structures or areas. The zoning regulations may be based upon any one or more of the purposes above described. The city may be divided into such number of zones or districts, and such districts may be of such shape and area as the mayor and councilmen of said city shall deem best to accomplish the purposes of the zoning regulations.
(15)
Reserved.
(16)
Animals and fowl. To regulate, license, tax or prohibit, the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment thereof for violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also, to provide for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane destruction, when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violations of ordinances enacted under this subsection.
(17)
Vehicles for hire. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; and to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance.
(18)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements.
(19)
Penalty for violation of law. To provide that upon the conviction of the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, the offender may be punished within limitations prescribed by the city council in such ordinance, rule, regulation, or order, but not exceeding the limitations prescribed by this charter or by general state law.
(20)
Additional powers generally. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under the Constitution or general laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers; but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the Constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
(21)
Advertising the city; hospitals and libraries. To levy taxes and to make appropriations for the purpose of advertising said city and its advantages and resources so as to bring new capital, commercial, manufacturing and other enterprises into the city; and also, to levy taxes and to make payment from the general revenues and funds of the city and for the support of public hospitals and libraries.
(22)
Control of public ways. To regulate and control public streets, public alleys and public ways and, in the discretion of the mayor and council, by ordinance to alter, open or close public streets and public alleys and ways.
(23)
Intergovernmental contracts. To contract with any state department, agency, or political subdivision of the state, including cities or counties or other such entities, for joint services or the exchange of services; to contract with such agencies or subdivisions for the joint use of facilities or equipment; and to contract with any such agency or subdivision to perform any service or execute any project in which the municipality has an interest.
(24)
Traffic regulations. To adopt ordinances not in conflict with the general law of the state, regulating the operation of motor vehicles and other traffic upon the streets of the city.
(25)
Codification of ordinances. To edit, revise and codify the general and permanent ordinances of the city and cause such ordinances to be published as the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Bowdon, Georgia", which publication, when published at the direction of the mayor and council, shall be prima facie evidence of the general and permanent ordinances of the city. The mayor and council may direct that the Code of Ordinances be published in looseleaf form and may further direct that such looseleaf Code be supplemented with such frequency as the mayor and council shall decide. A supplement so prepared at the direction of the mayor and council and, upon printing, maintained in an official copy in the office of the city clerk, shall be prima facie evidence of the general and permanent ordinances of the city adopted subsequent to the Code of Ordinances and not more recently than the latest ordinance of a general and permanent nature contained in the supplement.
(b)
The powers set out in subsection (a) shall be in addition to the powers conferred upon the city by the general law of the state.
State Law reference— Powers of municipal corporations generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 1.04. - Existing ordinances.
All ordinances, bylaws, rules and regulations, now in force in the city, not inconsistent with this Act, are hereby declared valid and of force and effect until amended or repealed by the mayor and council.
ARTICLE II. - CITY GOVERNMENT

Sec. 2.01. - Established.
The corporate governmental powers of the city shall be vested in a mayor and four councilmen to be known as the "Mayor and Council of the City of Bowdon, Georgia." The mayor and council shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city and shall exercise its powers in such manner as prescribed by this chapter, [article,] the Constitution and applicable general laws of the State of Georgia or, if not prescribed, in such manner as prescribed by the duly adopted ordinances of the city.
Sec. 2.02. - Qualifications of mayor and councilmen.
To be eligible for the office of mayor or councilman, elected or appointed, a person shall be at least 21 years of age and shall meet the requirements of a qualified voter of the city, as prescribed by state law, shall have been a bona fide resident of the city for at least one year next preceding the election in which he offers as a candidate and shall continue to reside therein during his term of office. No person shall be eligible to be mayor or councilman who shall have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, unless he has received a full pardon and has all rights of citizenship restored. In the case of councilmen, each shall meet the residence requirements of section 2.03.
State Law reference— Qualifications of voters, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-216.
Sec. 2.03. - Councilmanic wards.
(a)
The city shall be divided into four wards, as follows:
(1)
Ward one: That segment of the city lying east of Wedowee Street and southeast of East College Street.
(2)
Ward two: That segment of the city lying between the east side of North Carroll Street and the northeasterly side of East College Street.
(3)
Ward three: That segment of the city lying west of North Carroll Street and north of West College Street.
(4)
Ward four: That segment of the city that lies west of Wedowee Street and south of West College Street.
(b)
No person shall be eligible as a candidate for the office of councilman or to remain in office as a councilman, unless he shall reside in the ward for which he is a candidate or for which he has been elected.
Sec. 2.04. - Qualifications and registration of electors.
Electors in city elections shall be qualified and registered as provided in Title 34A, Georgia Code [repealed—See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
Sec. 2.05. - Election of mayor and councilmen.
(a)
Those persons presently elected to office shall continue to serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified as provided by law.
(b)
On the first Tuesday in November, 1990, and on the first Tuesday in November every two years thereafter, a general election shall be held for mayor and the two councilmen whose terms of office are expiring.
The candidate for mayor, elected at large, who shall receive the plurality vote shall be elected for a term of office of four years and until his successor is duly elected and qualified.
The candidates for councilman, elected at large, who shall receive the plurality vote for the respective wards for which they are candidates, shall be elected for terms of office of four years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
On the first Tuesday in November, 1990, and on the first Monday of December every two years thereafter, a general election shall be held for the two councilmen whose terms of office are expiring. The two candidates for councilmen in the election who receive the highest number of votes for their respective wards shall be elected for terms of office of two years each and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Editor's note— Terms of office are four years unless otherwise provided by local law in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1. See O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1.
Sec. 2.06. - Oath of office of mayor and council.
Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, any person elected to the office of mayor or councilman shall be sworn to faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability.
Sec. 2.07. - Conduct of elections generally.
City elections shall be conducted as provided for by Title 34A, Georgia Code, and as provided for by ordinance or resolution of the mayor and council adopted pursuant to Title 34A, Georgia Code [repealed—See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.).
Sec. 2.08. - Meetings of the mayor and council; compensation .
The mayor and council shall hold regular meetings once in each month on the second Monday of each month throughout the year or at such other times as may be adopted by the council. The regular meetings of the mayor and council shall be recessed from day to day and from time to time as the mayor may determine. Less than a majority of the mayor and council may recess the meeting to a further date. The mayor and council shall receive as compensation for their services an amount prescribed by ordinance passed by the council in conformity with the laws of the State of Georgia. The mayor and council shall be entitled to receive their actual necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
( Ord. of 9-18-2017 , § 1)
State Law reference— Authority to determine compensation of members of governing body, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
Sec. 2.09. - Powers of the mayor generally.
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall have the authority to call special sessions of the mayor and council.
Sec. 2.10. - Mayor pro tem.
When the council has been organized at its first meeting in each year, the mayor shall designate one member of the council to serve as mayor pro tem, at times when the mayor is absent or disabled to serve and, when so serving, the mayor pro tem shall carry out the duties prescribed for the mayor in section 2.09.
Sec. 2.11. - Filling vacancies.
In the event of the death, resignation or removal of the mayor or of any councilman, the mayor and council shall declare a vacancy to exist and the mayor and council shall call a special election to be held within the time limits prescribed by Title 34A, Georgia Code [repealed—See now O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], to fill the vacancy in office. The election shall be held in the same manner as is provided in this charter for general city elections. Notice of the special election shall be given in the manner provided by state law.
Sec. 2.12. - Compensation of the mayor and members of the council.
Other than the compensation provided in section 2.08 to be paid to the mayor and council for attendance upon meeting of the mayor and council, any other compensation for other services than attending said meetings shall be established from time to time by the mayor and council by resolution.
ARTICLE III. - JUDICIAL BRANCH[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 3.01. - Creation; name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Bowdon.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
Sec. 3.02. - Chief judge; associate judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time or stand-by judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the mayor and council, and each shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Compensation of a judge shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed from office in compliance with Code Section 36-32-2.1 of the O.C.G.A [O.C.G.A. § 36-32-2.1].
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of his or her ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the council journal.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
Sec. 3.03. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as set by the chief judge with approval of the mayor and council.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
Sec. 3.04. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt as may be provided by Georgia law.
(b)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding the maximums as may be provided by Georgia law.
(c)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees including an information technology fee to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have the authority to establish bail and recognizances to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail to ensure such person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and placed fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge and declared forfeited to the city; or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, and such lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(e)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as the superior court to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(f)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served and executed by any officer authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
Sec. 3.05. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Carroll County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
Sec. 3.06. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations as are necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in total the rules and regulations applicable to municipal courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be available for public inspection; and upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to such proceedings.
(2019 Ga. Laws (Act No. 95), page 3674, § 1)
ARTICLE IV. - CITY OFFICERS

Sec. 4.01. - Election and removal generally.
The mayor and council shall elect a city manager, a chief of police and such police officers as it at any time may deem necessary to assist the chief of police in preserving the good order and peace of the city and prescribe the duties of the city officers not inconsistent with the charter and the laws of the state.
ARTICLE V. - TAXATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Contract for county to assess and collect municipal taxes, etc., O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.1.

Sec. 5.01. - Tax levies authorized; maximum rate.
The mayor and council shall have the full power and authority to assess, levy and collect such taxes upon real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city as it may deem necessary for the support and financing of the government of the city. However, the tax so assessed shall not exceed 1½ percent or 15 mills, except as provided in the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Georgia 1953 (p. 372), as codified in Ga. Code Ann. 92-4101 [now repealed]. The mayor and council shall also have the authority to levy a tax on the owners of real estate for the purpose of paving sidewalks and streets in front of said realty.
Sec. 5.02. - Tax assessors.
The mayor and council shall, at its first meeting of each year, elect three tax assessors for the city, who shall be freeholders in the city, residents therein and 21 years of age. The tax assessors shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified. The mayor and council shall have power at any time to fill vacancies caused by death, resignation or otherwise. It shall be the duty of the tax assessors at such time as they may be directed by the mayor and council, to inspect and assess a valuation upon all real estate in the city liable to taxation, consistent with the general law of the state. Before entering upon their duties as assessors, the persons elected as tax assessors under this section shall be sworn before the mayor or some member of the council to faithfully and impartially discharge their duties as assessors of the city.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, municipalities use the fair market value of property determined for county ad valorem tax purposes.
Sec. 5.03. - Assessment procedure; arbitration.
The tax assessors shall make out a list of taxable property in the city in a book provided for that purpose by the mayor and council, with the true valuation as determined in accordance with the general law of the state, which they shall return to the clerk of the council, who shall assess the tax thereon as may be provided in the ordinances of the city. Should any owner of real property in the city be dissatisfied with the valuation put upon his property by the tax assessors, he may complain to the clerk of the council, whereupon the question shall be submitted to arbitration as follows: The property owner shall select one arbitrator, the assessors one arbitrator and these two a third, all of whom shall be citizens of the city and freeholders in the city. They shall proceed to pass upon the question, inspecting the property and having such evidence as they may require; their judgment assessing the value shall be final.
Editor's note— The provisions of Charter § 5.03 are obsolete in light of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, providing for assessments based upon fair market value as determined by the county. A taxpayer may appeal from an assessment to the county board of equalization pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311.
Sec. 5.04. - Compensation of assessors.
The tax assessors provided in this article shall be paid out of city funds for their services, such sums as the mayor and council may fix by ordinance or resolution.
Editor's note— The provisions of Charter § 5.04 are obsolete in light of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, providing for assessments based upon fair market value as determined by the county. As provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-294, the county governing authority determines the amount of compensation that is paid to the members of the county board of tax assessors.
Sec. 5.05. - Tax returns.
(a)
It shall be the duty of all persons, firms and corporations owning real or personal property, money, or choses in action in the city, subject to taxation under the laws of the state, to make return thereof for city taxation under oath to the clerk of the mayor and council of said city, on forms therefor to be provided by the mayor and council, containing questions that will reach all species of real and personal property, money, and choses in action subject to taxation. The questions shall require separate answers and the oath to said forms shall be administered by the clerk to the party making the return.
(b)
The clerk of the council shall take from each person owning or holding real or personal property, whether as an individual, agent, guardian, administrator or other fiduciary, and from all corporations, firms and other entities, a sworn statement listing all real estate and personal property located within the city, which returns shall and its true market value, be consolidated and reviewed by the tax assessors of the city. A tax return shall be made not earlier than the first day of January of each year and not later than the first day of March of each year. Should any property owner fail to make tax returns required by this section within said period, the tax assessors shall make and file with the clerk of the council the returns and, if there shall be vacancies in the office of tax assessors so that the tax assessors cannot function within 30 days after the first day of March of each year, then the mayor and council shall make the returns for defaulting taxpayers and shall, within 30 days thereafter, give notice to the defaulting taxpayers of the valuation placed upon the property of such taxpayer.
Editor's note— The provisions of Charter § 5.05 are obsolete in light of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, providing for assessments based upon fair market value as determined by the county. Tax return procedures are provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-10 et seq.
Sec. 5.06. - Digest of returns; review.
The clerk of the council shall make a digest of tax returns filed pursuant to this article by the first day of June each year and submit the digest together with a list of all defaulters, to the mayor and council, which shall examine and inspect the digest and revise and correct the returns therein and the list of defaulters and, if in its judgment, any personal property, money or choses in action is omitted from any return or is undervalued, it shall correct the return by setting out the omitted personalty, money or choses in action and its value and by setting out the true value of any such property undervalued in such return. Notice of such amendment of said return shall then be given in writing to the taxpayer affected by depositing notice thereof in the post office, properly addressed with postage prepaid, and unless a written notice of disagreement is filed with the clerk of the council within five days from date of deposit of such notice in the post office, the same shall be prima facie presumed to have been accepted as amended. In order to effectually carry out the aforesaid powers and duties, said mayor and council shall have authority as a court to subpoena any person whose return is being considered and other witnesses, and examine such persons on oath in regard to the returns and to cause the production of books and papers to be used as evidence.
Editor's note— The provisions of Charter § 5.06 are obsolete in light of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, providing for assessments based upon fair market value as determined by the county. County tax digests are described in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-106 et seq.
Sec. 5.07. - Arbitration of revision of tax returns.
If any person whose return has been revised and corrected by the mayor and council is dissatisfied therewith, he shall so notify the clerk of the council whereupon such question shall be submitted to arbitration as follows: The property owner shall select one arbitrator, the clerk of the council shall select one arbitrator and these two shall select a third. All shall be residents of the city and they shall proceed to investigate and pass on the question submitted and shall have authority to subpoena witnesses and examine them under oath and cause the production of books and papers to be used as evidence therein; their findings shall be final. The action of the mayor and council shall be prima facie correct, and the burden of proof shall be upon the property owner before the arbitrators.
Editor's note— The provisions of Charter § 5.07 are obsolete in light of O.C.G.A. § 48-5-352, providing for assessments based upon fair market value as determined by the county. Decisions of the county board of equalization may be appealed to the superior court pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311.
Sec. 5.08. - [Use of county tax digest.].
The mayor and council, notwithstanding the provisions of sections 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06 and 5.07, shall have the authority to elect to use the tax digest of assessments of real property located within the city as prepared by the Carroll County tax commissioner in order that ad valorem taxes may be assessed against such property. The mayor and council shall also be authorized to pay whatever [sic] reasonable charge for receiving such service.
Editor's note— The above section was submitted by the city as an amendment to the Charter.
ARTICLE VI. - MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES

Sec. 6.01. - Execution and sale for debts due the city.
All taxes, assessments, fines, and penalties recoverable pursuant to this charter and ordinances adopted under this charter, may be enforced by execution. All writs, processes and subpoenas issued on behalf of the city shall be directed to the marshal of the city and signed in the same manner as an execution. All executions issued on behalf of the city for the collection of taxes, fines, forfeitures or other purposes shall be directed to the marshal and signed by the mayor and all members of the council. All sales by the marshal of the city shall be advertised, if personal property, by posting the advertisement in three of the most public places in said city, ten days before the sale, when the property shall be exposed and sold between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. at the council chamber of the city. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the debt, cost and satisfying of the execution and surplus shall be returned to defendant. Where the execution is against real estate, the chief of police shall advertise the sale once a week for four weeks in a newspaper in Carroll County, in which the sheriff's sales of the county are published and the property so advertised shall be sold by the marshal on the regular sheriff's sales day between the legal hours of sale and at the courthouse of Carroll County. The chief of police is empowered to execute title thereto to any property in said city sold as prescribed in this section, and when claim of illegality shall be interposed, the chief of police shall not sell property, but shall make a return to the Superior Court of Carroll County for trial.
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359, execution and sales for debts due the city are governed by O.C.G.A. § 9-13-140 et seq.
State Law reference— Execution for collection of assessments for paving streets, laying sewers, etc., O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358; time, place and manner of sale of property for taxes due municipality, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.
Sec. 6.02. - Lien for debts due the city.
There shall be a lien on all real estate and personal property within the city for city taxes assessed thereon and for all fines and penalties assessed or imposed, also for water rents, license fees and assessments of every kind; which lien shall be enforced and collected by execution, which shall have the same rank and dignity as liens and judgments from courts of the state.
Sec. 6.03. - Duty of mayor and the clerk of the council upon failure of chief of police to collect debts.
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to collect the city taxes, fines, levies and assessments and, should the debt not be paid within 30 days after they are placed in his hands for collection, the mayor and all members of the council shall issue executions therefor in the way and manner provided in this article, which executions shall be attested by the clerk of the council.
Sec. 6.04. - Disposal of real or personal property.
The mayor and council of the city is authorized to sell and dispose of any real or personal property owned by the city for which the city has no further municipal use, in the official determination of the mayor and council and to make and execute instruments of title conveying the property, on such consideration as may be fixed by official action of the mayor and council.
Sec. 6.05. - [Repealer.].
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of amendments to the Charter. The Charter is derived from 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 669), page 3654.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
in Charter
1910 408 — 1.01
1912 642 — 1.01
1922 598 — 1.01
1924 453 — 1.01
1937 1515 — 1.01
1939 901 — 1.01
1941 1188 — 1.01
1951 2626 — 1.01
— 2911 — 1.01
1953 2897 — 1.01
1957 2804 — 1.01
1958 3005 — 1.01
1963 3207 — 1.01
1970 3362 — 1.01
2019 95 3674 1 3.01
— 3.02
— 3.03
— 3.04
— 3.05
— 3.06
  CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - LEGISLATION
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Legislation Date Section Section
this Charter
Ord. of 9-18-2017 9-18-2017 1 2.08
  Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION[1]
Be it resolved by the General Assembly of Georgia:

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1977 Ga. Laws (Law No. 72), page 1602. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, capitalization, and expression of numbers has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. This local constitutional amendment was continued in full force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws (Act No. 471), page 4814.

Sec. 1. - Exemption from all city ad valorem taxes.
Article VII, section I, paragraph IV of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"Any other provisions of this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, the governing authority of the City of Bowdon is hereby authorized to grant an exemption from all city ad valorem taxes in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority at not more than $2,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by a resident of the city as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such. The value of the residence in excess of the amount so exempted shall remain subject to taxation. Any such resident shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he or his agent provides the governing authority of the city, or a person designated by the governing authority, with an affidavit stating that he is a resident and that such property is his homestead and residence and containing such additional information as will enable the governing authority to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority shall provide the necessary forms for such purpose.
After any such person has filed the proper affidavit and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file said affidavit thereafter for any subsequent year, and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of such person to notify the governing authority in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The homestead exemption provided for herein shall not be granted nor the amount fixed within the limits prescribed herein for any year until the governing authority of the city provides by ordinance for the granting of such exemption and the amount thereof. The governing authority of the city may provide by ordinance for the proper administration of this exemption."
Sec. 2. - Homestead exemption for residents.
The above proposed amendment to the constitution shall be published and submitted as provided in article XII, section I, paragraph i of the Constitution of Georgia of 1976.
The ballot submitting the above proposed amendment shall have written or printed thereon the following:
"[ ] YES
[ ] NO
Shall the Constitution be amended so as to provide for a homestead exemption for residents of the City of Bowdon in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority of the city at not more than $2,000.00 from all City of Bowdon ad valorem taxes?"
All persons desiring to vote in favor of ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "Yes." All persons desiring to vote against ratifying the proposed amendment shall vote "No."
If such amendment shall be ratified as provided in said paragraph of the Constitution, it shall become a part of the Constitution of this state.
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE - GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of sections of the Related Laws and the Acts of the General Assembly amending the Related Laws.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
in Related Laws
1977 72 1602 — Art. I
1985 471 4814 — Art. I
