Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18; nuisances, § 30-26 et seq.; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 38; taxation, ch. 50; traffic and vehicles, ch. 54; operation of CMVs by city employees while under the influence of alcohol, § 54-3.
State Law reference— Use of proceeds of alcoholic beverage tax for prevention, education and treatment, Ga. Const. art. 3, sec. 9, par. 6(e); Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; public drunkenness, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41; furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age, jurisdiction of municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-10; treatment of alcoholics and intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 37-8-1 et seq.; driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-391.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Retailer or retail dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-2. - Sales on election day.
The sale of alcoholic beverages on election days is permitted, provided that no person shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages within 250 feet of any polling place or the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
(Ord. of 12-30-86)
State Law reference— Local governing authority may authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages on election days, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 6-3. - Consumption and sales on public property prohibited.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverages or any other intoxicating beverage at any public place within the city, or for any person to have in his possession any unsealed or opened container with such intoxicating beverage in it at any public place (including without limitation roads, sidewalks, and government buildings) within the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or possess any alcoholic beverage upon real property of the city that is used as a public park, playground, or school.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic beverages in any automobile on the streets of the city, whether such automobile shall be moving or parked.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, serve, or otherwise dispense alcoholic beverages outside the licensed premises structure.
(Ord. of 8-6-79; Ord. No. 2012-02, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-12)
State Law reference— Restriction on enforcement of local ordinances relating to drinking, being a common drunkard or being found in an intoxicated condition, O.C.G.A. § 37-8-11.
Secs. 6-4—6-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MALT BEVERAGE PACKAGE SALES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-26. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and/or punishment as provided by section 1-12. Each licensee shall comply with all state laws, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of malt beverages in this state. Any violation of such laws shall subject the licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his license and further criminal prosecution as provided by law.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 9)
Secs. 6-27—6-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 6-36. - Retail; qualifications of applicant.
Retail licenses for malt beverage package sales shall be issued only to applicants who meet the following qualifications:
(1)
The applicant must be at least 18 years of age, of good moral character and a citizen of the United States.
(2)
The license shall be issued for a specified address and shall not be transferable to another address.
(3)
The applicant must not have been convicted of any felony or any violation of the laws of this state, or any other state, relating to the sale of malt beverages or alcoholic liquors.
(4)
The applicant shall be active in, and solely responsible for, the management and operation of the business for which the license is granted.
(5)
The applicant shall make a sworn statement of his qualifications as provided in this section and shall place the same on file with the city clerk at the time of application.
(6)
If the applicant is a partnership, all members of the partnership must meet these requirements and make sworn statements of their qualifications.
(7)
If the applicant is a corporation, the manager must meet the requirements of subsections (1), (3) and (5) of this section; the corporation must meet the requirements of subsection (4) of this section; and all officers and directors of the corporation must be of good moral character and must meet the requirements of subsection (3) of this section, and a person authorized to do so must make a sworn statement that the corporation, its officers and directors, meet these requirements.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 1; Ord. No. 99-03-09-1, §§ 1, 2, 3-9-99; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 1, 2, 2-2-01)
State Law reference— Governing authority shall set forth ascertainable standards pertaining to the granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of alcoholic beverage permits or licenses, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
Sec. 6-37. - Wholesale.
Wholesale licenses for malt beverage package sales shall be issued only to those parties who are licensed by the state to sell and distribute malt beverages at wholesale. Application shall be made with the city clerk, and the applicant shall present evidence to show that all laws and regulations pertaining to such activities in this city are understood by the applicant.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 2)
Sec. 6-38. - Authority to issue.
All applications for malt beverage package sale licenses shall be presented to the mayor and council for approval, and, if approved, the license shall be issued by the city clerk upon the payment of the required fee.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 4)
Sec. 6-39. - Fees and taxes.
(a)
Each applicant for a retail or wholesale malt beverage package sale license shall pay to the city clerk at the time the license is issued a sum as set from time to time by the city council as an annual license fee for one year, commencing on January 1 and terminating on December 31 of each year; provided, however, that if such license is issued after June 30, the license shall be as set from time to time by the city council for the remainder of the year.
(b)
In addition to the license fee provided in subsection (a) of this section, there shall be assessed a prorated retail license fee or tax, based on sales, in the following amounts: The sum of $0.05 per 12 ounces, or proportionately thereof, so as to graduate the tax on bottles, cans and containers of various sizes. The tax shall be paid to the city by the wholesale distributors on all malt beverages sold to retailers in the city.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 5)
Secs. 6-40—6-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LICENSEES

Sec. 6-51. - Hours of operation; restrictions eliminated.
Any restrictions as to the hours of operation of a retail licensee for malt beverage package sales during days which malt beverages may be sold are eliminated.
(Ord. of 10-4-88)
Sec. 6-52. - Permitted sales.
All malt beverage package sales in the city shall be sold in sealed containers and six packs.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 3; Ord. of 10-4-88; Ord. of 6-1-92)
Sec. 6-53. - Prohibited sales.
No malt beverage shall be sold within this city to persons under 21 years of age, to persons in an intoxicated condition, or to persons who are known to be habitual drunkards.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 7; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 3, 4, 2-2-01)
State Law reference— Furnishing to, purchase of, or possession by persons under 21 years of age of alcoholic beverages; use of false identification; proper identification for sale of alcoholic beverages; dispensing, serving, etc., of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age in the course of employment; seller's duty to request proper identification, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23.
Sec. 6-54. - Required to keep copy of article on premises.
All holders of a license for the package sales or distribution of malt beverages shall keep a copy of this article in their premises and shall be familiar with its terms and shall instruct their employees with respect to such terms.
(Ord. of 4-14-75, § 8)
Secs. 6-55—6-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RETAIL PACKAGE SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-76. - Original package.
All licensed retailers for package sales of distilled spirits shall sell or offer to sell in the original unbroken package only.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 7; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 5, 6, 2-2-01)
Sec. 6-77. - Sunday sales.
The following regulations shall apply to all establishments holding a license for the package sale of distilled spirits: alcohol may be sold on Sundays between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Ord. of 12-13-11, § 1(Exh. A))
Secs. 6-78—6-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - RETAIL LICENSES

Sec. 6-86. - Qualifications of applicant.
No retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be granted to any person unless such person is of legal age.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 2; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 7, 8, 2-2-01)
Sec. 6-87. - Application.
Application for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be made, on forms furnished by the city council as follows:
(1)
Consideration. For the remainder of the year after March 15, 1975, applications will be considered any time.
(2)
Expiry; renewal. A retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon, and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before November 15th of the preceding year.
(3)
State license application required. In addition to the completion and submission of application form as required by the city, each applicant shall attach thereto a completed application form with all attachments and requirements for a state license.
(4)
Bond required. Before any retail license for package sales of distilled spirits is granted, the applicant must post with the city council, along with his application, a cash bond in an amount set from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges. The bond shall be conditioned requiring the faithful observance and performance by the licensee of the rules and regulations contained in this article. Upon the violation of this article or any part thereof, the amount of the bond to be forfeited will be determined by the seriousness of the violations as determined by the city council after a hearing is held by the city council after a three-day written notice is given the violator.
(5)
Advertisement in newspaper. A notice of each application shall be advertised in the official gazette of the city once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the city council that the application is to be acted upon.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 14; Ord. No. 98-1-5-2, §§ 1, 2, 1-5-98)
Sec. 6-88. - Annual fee.
The annual fee for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be as set forth from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges, and shall be paid prior to the issuance of any license. Such fee shall accompany the application and shall be either in cash or a bank certified check.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 15(1))
Sec. 6-89. - Excise tax levied.
(a)
In addition to the annual retail license fee for package sales of distilled spirits, there is hereby levied an excise tax computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter of distilled spirits and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter which shall be paid to the city council on all distilled spirits sold, displayed or stored in the city. The tax shall be paid to the city council by the wholesale distributor on all distilled spirits sold to retailers in the city as follows: Each wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or in any way delivering distilled spirits to any retailer, shall collect the excise tax at the time of delivery and shall remit the tax together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer on or before the tenth day of the month following. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesale distributor to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any distilled spirits to a retailer without having collected the tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any distilled spirits on which such tax has not been paid.
(b)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the city council a summary of all purchase invoices for distilled spirits sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth day of each month following such purchases. The summary shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 15(2), (3))
State Law reference— Levy of tax on sale of distilled spirits by the package authorized, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80; imposition of excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; authorization to levy tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60; municipality may impose excise tax on sale of distilled spirits by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130.
Sec. 6-90. - Issuance conditioned on approval of building specifications and compliance with applicable regulations.
No retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be issued to any person unless the building in which the business will be located is complete, and detailed plans of the building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application. The completed building or the proposed building shall comply with the ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner, and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval when completed by the building inspector. Each building in which the business will be located shall contain sufficient lighting so that the building itself and the premises on all sides of the building are readily visible at all times from the front of the street on which the building is located so as to reveal the inside retail area of the building and so as to reveal all of the outside premises of the building. Each applicant for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 6)
Sec. 6-91. - Location of premises.
No retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be granted to any person unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school ground or college campus, the distance to be measured by way of the nearest travelled road, street, or highway, as provided by law. Each application for such retail license shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article with reference to this section.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 4)
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages near churches, schools or college campus, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
Sec. 6-92. - Fiscal responsibility of applicant.
Any applicant for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits must show, to the satisfaction of the city council, financial responsibility. Financial statements must be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the city council. Forms of such financial responsibility are to be furnished by the city council along with or included in application forms for a retail license. Any applicant who is licensed must maintain a minimum of $25,000.00 stock of goods at retail price, subject to inventory audit at the end of each month while the license is enjoyed by the licensee.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 16)
Sec. 6-93. - Character of applicant.
(a)
Any applicant for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits must be of good character, and all managers, clerks or other employees shall be of like character or the application will not be considered. Corporation applicants shall be of good business reputation.
(b)
No applicant for a license for package sales of distilled spirits who has a criminal record, except minor traffic offenses, shall be granted a license.
(c)
The city council, in its discretion, may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, application or the proposed location of the business. If, in the council's judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 17)
Sec. 6-94. - Presentation of application in person.
All applications for a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be presented in person.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 18)
Sec. 6-95. - Transference; assignation.
No retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be transferable or assignable to any person or other location, and if a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender his license to the city council.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 19)
Sec. 6-96. - False statement; grounds for revocation.
The making of any statement on an application for a license for package sales of distilled spirits which shall be later found to be false shall constitute grounds for revocation of such license.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 22)
Sec. 6-97. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, § 9, adopted Feb. 2, 2001, repealed section 6-97 in its entirety. Former section 6-97 pertained to a limit of one license per person, and derived from an Ord. of March 15, 1975, § 3.
Sec. 6-98. - Separate license required for each place of business.
A separate retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be required for each place of business.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 5)
Sec. 6-99. - Display.
A retail license for package sales of distilled spirits under this article shall be displayed prominently at all times on the premises for which such license was issued.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 25)
Secs. 6-100—6-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RETAILERS

Sec. 6-111. - Sales of other products.
No retailer shall sell or offer for sale or display or keep in stock, at his place of business where distilled spirits are offered for sale, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines, and malt beverages when properly licensed; and
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol commonly used to dilute distilled spirits.
No beverages of any kind may be opened or consumed in such place of business.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 8; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 10, 11, 2-2-01)
Sec. 6-112. - Sale or delivery limited to place of business.
No retailer shall sell or deliver any distilled spirits to any person except in the retailer's place of business.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 9)
Sec. 6-113. - Hours of operation.
No retailer shall be in his place of business, open his place of business, or furnish, sell or offer for sale any distilled spirits sell at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Christmas Day or Sundays;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the city council.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 10; Ord. of 12-30-86; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 12, 13, 2-2-01)
Sec. 6-114. - Prohibited sales; proof of age.
No retailer shall give, sell or offer to sell any distilled spirits to any person who is under the age of 21 years, or who is noticeably intoxicated, or who is of unsound mind, or who is an habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the retailer. At any time a state driver's license shall be considered the only legal proof of age which would relieve a person making a sale from responsibility thereof.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 11; Ord. No. 01-02-13-1, §§ 14, 15, 2-2-01)
State Law reference— Sale of alcoholic beverages to intoxicated persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-22.
Sec. 6-115. - Posting of warning sign.
The holder of a license for retail package sales of distilled spirits shall post in the most conspicuous place in his establishment a sign printed in letters at least four inches high reading as follows: "Sale Of Distilled Spirits To Minors Strictly Prohibited."
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 12)
Sec. 6-116. - Storage of distilled spirits.
No licensed retailer shall keep any distilled spirits stored in any bonded or other type of warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby distilled spirits ordered by him is stored for him by any licensed wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of distilled spirits at any place except his licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business his storage space for distilled spirits shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 13)
Sec. 6-117. - Retailers to keep copy of article.
All holders of a license for package sales of distilled spirits shall keep a copy of this article in his premises and shall instruct any person working there with respect to its terms, and each licensee or his agents selling distilled spirits shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this article. The licensee shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 20)
Sec. 6-118. - Inspections.
The business premises of the holder of a retail license for package sales of distilled spirits shall be open to inspection at any and all times by officers or officials authorized to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 21)
Sec. 6-119. - Employment of persons under 18 years of age.
No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 23)
Sec. 6-120. - Gambling prohibited on premises.
Except for any lottery authorized or sponsored by the state, there shall be no gambling, betting, games of chance, punchboards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, lotteries or tickets or chances therein or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in any licensed retailer's place of business or in any room adjoining the place of business, owned, leased or controlled by the licensee and any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension or revocation of his license.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 24; Ord. of 2-7-94)
Sec. 6-121. - Revocation or suspension of license.
No person shall engage in sales of package distilled spirits in the city without first complying with the rules and regulations set out in this article. Any person violating the rules and regulations set out in this article shall be subject to revocation of his license and punishment as prescribed by the city council. In addition to the rules and regulations set out in this article, each licensee doing business in the city under this article shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws, and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in the state, and any violation of such rules shall subject the licensee to immediate suspension or revocation of his retail license for package sales of distilled spirits and also shall subject the licensee to criminal prosecution by the proper authority as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. of 3-15-75, § 26)
Secs. 6-122—6-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - RETAIL SALES OF WINE AND MALT BEVERAGES FOR CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-141. - Authorization of sales.
Retail sales of wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises by the drink with proper license is hereby authorized subject to the requirements listed in this article.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 1)
Sec. 6-142. - Sunday sales
The following regulations shall apply to all establishments holding a license for the sale of wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises: alcohol may be served on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served and in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(Ord.of 12-13-11, § 1(Exh. B))
Secs. 6-143—6-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-151. - Procedure for applicants.
Applicants for a license to sell wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises by the drink, hereafter known as a wine and beer pouring license, shall follow the same procedure and must meet the same requirements as those set forth for other wine and malt beverage selling licenses in effect for the city.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 2)
Sec. 6-152. - Requisites for issuance.
(a)
Any applicant for a wine and beer pouring license must show the following before such a license may be issued:
(1)
The sale of wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises by the drink shall be in an establishment with a seating capacity of 30 or more people.
(2)
The sale of wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises by the drink shall be in an establishment which derives 60 percent or more of its revenues from serving food which may be consumed on the premises.
(3)
The sale of wine and malt beverages shall be for consumption of such beverages within the dining area on the premises.
(4)
No employees under the age of 18 shall handle wine or malt beverages in any manner.
(5)
No wine or malt beverages shall be served without an order for food.
(b)
The wine and beer pouring license is the authorization by the city to engage in the sale of wine and malt beverages by the drink within the dining area of the building on the premises of the establishment. No wine or malt beverages shall be sold for consumption on the premises by the drink without a license granted by the city, and any such sale without first complying with the rules and regulations of this article or established previously in this chapter shall be unlawful. Violation of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 3; Ord. No. 06-3-14-1, §§ 1, 2, 3-14-06)
Sec. 6-153. - Licensees to exercise privileges according to applicable laws.
Each holder of a wine and beer pouring license shall ensure that the privileges allowed by the license shall be exercised under the ordinances of the city and the state law.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 5)
Sec. 6-154. - Fees.
The annual fee for a wine and beer pouring license shall be as set forth from time to time by the city council, and listed in the schedule of fees and charges. Such fee shall be due and payable on January 1 of each calendar year. Upon petition to city council a merchant who can demonstrate appropriate cause may request that the annual fee be paid in six-month installments. City council will consider each request on an individual basis.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 6; Ord. of 2-8-11, § 1)
Sec. 6-155. - Posting.
The license shall be posted in the place of business and be readily accessible for inspection at any time by the city or law enforcement officials.
(Ord. of 11-2-92, § 7)
Secs. 6-156—6-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SALE OF LIQUOR BY THE DRINK[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, §§ 1—30, adopted Sept. 12, 2000, did not specifically amend the Code. Hence its inclusion herein as sections 6-171—6-200 was at the discretion of the editor.

Sec. 6-171. - Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise demands, the words and terms used in this article shall have the definition and meanings set out in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2, as now existing or as hereafter amended.
Club shall mean a nonprofit association organized and existing under the laws of the state, which has been in existence for a period of at least one year prior to the filing for its application for a license hereunder, which has at least 35 members regularly paying dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other nonprofit purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholder or member, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use of its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment, and maintaining and using sufficient employees for preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic beverages beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed for him by its members at a prior annual meeting or by the governing body out of the general revenue of the club. For the purposes of this definition, tips which are added to the bills under club regulations shall not be considered as profits hereunder.
Governing authority shall mean the mayor and council of the city.
Hotel or motel shall mean every building or other structure maintained and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to the travelers and guests, whether transient or permanent, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen facilities and a seating capacity of at least 50, where meals are regularly served to such guests, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel or motel operation.
License shall mean the authorization by the governing authority to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink and for consumption only on the premises.
Licensee for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises shall mean any person, firm or corporation duly licensed to sell by the drink distilled spirits for consumption only on the premises.
Lounge shall mean a separate room connected with or a part of or adjacent to a restaurant or located in hotels or motels as defined herein with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall have seating capacity of at least 40.
Manager shall mean one who supervises the regular operations of a business licensed under this article.
Mixed drinks shall mean alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the premises only, licenses for which are issued only in restaurants, hotels or motels, clubs, lounges, and nightclubs as defined herein.
Nightclub shall mean those establishments having a seating capacity of at least 50 persons with all booths and tables being unobstructed and open to view and providing a band or other professional entertainment a minimum of ten days per month each and every month with the exception of holidays, vacations and periods redecorating and remodeling. The principal business of such night club shall be entertainment and the serving of spirituous liquors shall be incidental thereto.
Owner shall mean any person or partner or stockholder owning 25 percent or more of a business.
Person shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, non-profit membership, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private or quasi-public.
Restaurant shall mean any public place maintained and held out to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity of at least 30 people, having sufficient employees to prepare and serve suitable food for its guests. At least one meal per day shall be served at least five days per week, with the exception of holidays, vacations, and periods of redecorating and remodeling, and the serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted, with the serving of distilled spirits to be consumed on the premises as only incidental thereto.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Wholesaler means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 1, 9-12-00; Ord. No. 06-3-14-1, §§ 3, 4, 3-14-06)
Sec. 6-172. - Administration of issuance of licenses.
(a)
All applicants for licenses hereunder shall fill out and sign a notarized application form as prescribed by the governing authority which shall contain all necessary information for a determination of the qualifications of the applicants and which shall contain the names of the owners of the businesses for which licenses are proposed.
(b)
The governing authority, through the chief of police of the city or his designee, shall examine the qualifications of an applicant for any license hereunder and the qualifications of the owner of the business and if he determines that an application and owner meet the criteria established by this article for the issuance of such license, he shall so report to the governing authority, and a license may thereafter be issued.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 2, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-173. - Application generally.
(a)
An application for a license hereunder shall be presented in person to the city clerk. Such application shall be made on forms furnished by the city and shall state the following:
(1)
As to the applicant: Full name, age, home address, addresses for the immediately preceding ten years, present employer and business address, previous employment in the immediately preceding five years, name of spouse and all children, complete record of any and all convictions and guilty pleas and pleas of nolo contendere for violations of any law, city, state or federal.
(2)
As to corporate applicants: Full corporate name and address, name and address of registered agent, names and addresses of all shareholders, directors and officers, with the information set out in subparagraph (1) above.
(3)
As to applicant's proposed manager, if not the same applicant: The same information as set out in response to subparagraph (1) above.
(4)
The exact location of the proposed business, including the distances and building requirements as set out in this article.
(5)
Any and all other matters as required by this article of as reasonable required by the governing authority. Such application shall be sworn to before a notary public.
(6)
Expiration; renewal period: A license issued under this section shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon, and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before November 15 of the preceding year.
(b)
An application submitted under this section shall have attached thereto a true and complete copy of the application form, with all attachments and requirements, to be submitted for any state license.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 3, 9-12-00; Ord. No. 03-12-9-1, 12-9-03)
Sec. 6-174. - Publication of notice of application; posting of proposed location.
(a)
A notice of each application for a license hereunder shall be advertised, in the official newspaper in the city in which sheriff's advertisements are made, once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the meeting of the city council at which the application is be acted upon. The advertisement shall contain the name of the applicant, the purpose of the application, the proposed location of the business, and the names of the owners.
(b)
The application for a license hereunder shall, at least three days after filing the application with the city clerk, identify the proposed location of the place of business by posting a sign on the front door of the building proposed to be used, or upon a prominent place on the lot where a proposed building is to be constructed, and facing the public street, which sign shall state: "Application pending for this location for license for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises." The sign shall remain in place until the application is acted upon by the governing authority.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 4, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-175. - General qualifications of applicant.
(a)
No license allowed by this article shall be granted to any person, unless such person has been a resident of the state for a period of at least six months prior to making application. As to corporate applicants, the same provision shall apply, provided that any corporation which is a nonresident of the state may be qualified to receive a license if the corporation is a corporation qualified to do business within the state.
(b)
No employee, agent or elected official of the city shall be eligible to receive a license under this article.
(c)
Every applicant for a license under this article must show, to the satisfaction of the governing authority, financial responsibility. Financial statements shall be submitted with each completed application as prescribed by the governing authority.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 5, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-176. - Criminal record of applicant and employees.
(a)
No license shall be granted under this article to an applicant who has been convicted under any federal, state or local law for a criminal offense involving moral turpitude, or who has been convicted under any federal, state or local law of any criminal offense involving alcoholic beverages, gambling or tax law violations, if such conviction tends to indicate that the applicant would not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with federal and state laws and the ordinances of the city.
(b)
No license shall be granted under this article to any applicant who proposes to employ in such business, or who retains in such employment, any person who has been convicted of any offense referred to in subsection (a) above.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 6, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-177. - Applicant's fingerprints.
The applicant for a license hereunder and the proposed manager of the business, if different, shall, as a prerequisite to the issuance of any license hereunder, submit fingerprints and have crime information files searched as provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(c), as the same now exists or as may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 7, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-178. - Copy of article to be kept on premises; instruction as to, and familiarity with, provisions of article.
(a)
All holders of a license under this article for the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises shall keep a copy of this article on the premises and shall instruct any person working on such premises with respect to the terms of this article and each such licensee or his agent and employees selling hereunder shall, at all times, be familiar with the terms of this article.
(b)
By accepting the issuance of a license hereunder, the licensee shall be presumed to have received a full copy of this article, to have read the same, and to be familiar with all of its terms and provisions.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 8, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-179. - Inspection of premises.
The business premises of the holder of a license hereunder shall be open to inspection, at any and all reasonable times, by officers authorized by the governing authority to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 9, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-180. - Compliance with state and federal laws, etc.
Each license holder hereunder doing business with the city shall comply with all laws of the state, federal laws and rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner relating to the sale and distribution of distilled spirits in this state.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 10, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-181. - List of employees to be filed with chief of police.
All persons licensed hereunder shall file with the chief of police a list of the names of all employees of the licensed business, with home addresses within three days of the effective date of the license. Changes in the employees, with the names of new employees, shall be filed with the chief within three days of any such change.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 11, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-182. - Employment of minors.
No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any capacity in any place of business licensed under this article.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 12, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-183. - Responsibility for violations by employees.
Each license hereunder shall be held responsible for any acts of his employees in any violation of this article or of the laws of the state or federal laws, or the rules and regulations of the state revenue commissioner.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 13, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-184. - Sale of liquor to intoxicated, etc., persons.
No licensee hereunder shall give, sell or offer to sell any alcoholic beverages to any person who is noticeably intoxicated, who is of unsound mind, or who is a habitual drunkard whose intemperate habits are known to the license holder or his agents or employees.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 14, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-185. - Gambling, pinball machines, etc., prohibited on premises.
It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to permit gambling, betting, games of chance, punch boards, vending machines, slot machines, pinball machines, electronic games, lotteries or the operation of any schemes for hazarding money or any other thing of value in the place of business or in any room adjoining the same, owned, leased or controlled by the license holder.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 15, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-186. - Separate license for each place of business.
A separate license hereunder shall be required for each place of business and a separate application under this article shall be made for each.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 16, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-187. - Display of license.
Licenses issued under this article shall be displayed permanently and prominently at all times on the premises for which the same are issued.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 17, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-188. - License required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business regulated by this article within the city unless he has a current license to do so issued pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 18, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-189. - Sign as to sales to underage persons.
Every licensee hereunder shall post, in the most conspicuous place in his establishment, a sign printed in letters at least four inches high and reading as follows:
"SALE OF LIQUOR TO PERSONS UNDER 21 STRICTLY PROHIBITED."
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 19, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-190. - Business prohibited at certain times.
No retailer licensed hereunder shall be in his place of business, open his place of business or furnish, sell or offer for sale any alcoholic beverages at any of the following times:
(1)
At any time on Christmas Day or on Sundays;
(2)
At any time in violation of a local ordinance or regulation or of a special order of the governing authority;
(3)
On any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m., and 9:00 a.m., on the other days of the week.
No later than 1:00 a.m. on Sunday and no later than 1:30 a.m., on the other days of the week when alcoholic beverages may be sold within the city, all patrons and customers of any establishment licensed hereunder shall vacate the premises and the doors to such establishment shall be closed and locked. This section shall not apply to a restaurant which serves prepared, cooked meals and which derives at least 75 percent of its gross revenue from the sale of food and nonalcoholic beverages; provided, however, that this exception shall not be construed as authorizing the sale or offering for sale of alcoholic beverages when the same is prohibited by this article.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 20, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-191. - Location requirements for applicant's premises.
No license hereunder shall be granted to any persons, unless the entire business premises of the proposed location is situated in a commercial area, and beyond 100 yards from the property line of any church, and beyond 200 yards from the property line of any school grounds, college campus or public park, the same to be measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street or highway, as provided by law. Each application for a license hereunder shall include a scale drawing of the location of the proposed premises showing the distance to the nearest church or school or a certificate of a registered surveyor that such location complies with this article.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 21, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-192. - Requirements for applicant's building.
(a)
No license shall be issued hereunder to any person, unless, the building in which the business will be located is complete and detailed plans of the building and outside premises are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specifications and a building permit for a proposed building are attached to the application. The completed building or proposed building shall comply with all ordinances of the city, and the regulations of the state revenue commissioner and the laws of this state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval, when completed, by the city engineer.
(b)
Each applicant for a license hereunder shall attach to the application evidence of ownership of the building, or proposed building in which the business is to be conducted or a copy of the lease or rental agreement, if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 22, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-193. - Storage of liquor.
No license holder hereunder shall keep any liquor stored in any bonded or other type warehouse in the city, nor shall he enter into any type of arrangement whereby liquor ordered by him is stored for him by any license wholesaler. A retailer shall keep no inventory or stock of liquor at any place except the licensed place of business, and within his licensed place of business the storage space for liquor shall be immediately adjacent to the room in which he is licensed to do business. If such storage space has a door leading directly to the outside, such door shall be so equipped that it may only be unlocked and opened from the inside and shall only be opened while accepting delivery of goods from a licensed wholesaler. It shall be permissible to store other products, which the retailer is legally permitted to sell, in the same storage space.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 23, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-194. - Annual license fee.
(a)
The annual license fee for a retail license hereunder shall be $1.000.00, which shall be paid with and at the same time as filing the application for the license. The fee shall be paid in cash or by a bank certified check made payable to the city. If the application is not approved and no license is granted, the fee shall be refunded; provided, however, that in any year in which the application shall not be approved, the city shall retain the sum of $100.00 as an investigation fee, and the balance of any license fee submitted shall then be refunded.
(b)
The annual license fee provided for in subsection (a) hereinabove, shall be prorated during the calendar year so that the following fees shall be payable from time to time during any calendar year:
(1)
If the application is filed during the time from January 1 through June 30, the fee shall be $ 1,000.00;
(2)
If the application is filed during the time from July 1 through December 31, the fee shall be $500.00.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 24, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-195. - Applicant's bond generally.
Before any license hereunder is granted, the applicant must post with the governing authority, along with his application, a personal performance bond, with surety being a surety company licensed to do business in the state, conditioned on the applicant's faithful observance of, and compliance with, the provisions of this article. Such bond shall be payable to the city, in the amount of $5,000.00, and must be approved by the governing authority.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 25, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-196. - Time of grant of license; term.
(a)
A license granted under this article shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such license may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next calendar year must make a new application for such year as set out in this section, and all requirements must be met by January fifteenth of the year of such license.
(b)
No license hereunder shall be transferable or assignable to any person or to any other location. In the event that a licensed business is sold or closed, it shall be the duty of the licensee to immediately surrender the license to the city clerk. There shall be no refund of the license fees upon such surrender.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 26, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-197. - Grant or denial generally.
In deciding to grant or deny a license applied for under this article, the governing authority, in its discretion may consider any extenuating circumstances which may reflect favorably or unfavorably on the applicant, the application, or the proposed location of the business. If, in the governing authority's judgment, circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public, such circumstances may be grounds for denying the application. If the governing authority, after providing for a public hearing on the application, finds that the applicant is not entitled to the license, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons therefor, and the applicant shall have the right to appear at the next regular meeting of the governing authority to present evidence in rebuttal.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 27, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-198. - Notice of disciplinary action against licensees or employees.
(a)
Every retail dealer licensed under this article who has any disciplinary action taken against him or his employees by any authority, either municipal, county, state of federal, shall notify the governing authority or its agents within 15 days of such action.
(b)
The term "disciplinary action" as used in this section, shall mean arrests (with the exception of nonalcoholic beverage related traffic citations), citations indictment, presentments or accusations, convictions in any court, penalties imposed by any regulatory agency, any written charge or reprimand by any authority and any civil action or accusations against the licensee or his employees relating to the sale of liquor or other alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 28, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-199. - Suspension or revocation; forfeiture of bond.
(a)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended or revoked, if the licensee is convicted of any offense mentioned in this article or if he retains any person in employment in the licensed business after such person is convicted of such offense.
(b)
The making of any statement on any application for license under this article, which is later found to be false, shall constitute grounds for revocation of the license.
(c)
If the holder of a license under this article violates any provision of this article, his license may be suspended or revoked and all or a portion of the bond required by this article may be forfeited. The amount of such forfeiture shall depend upon the seriousness of the violation and shall be determined by the governing authority.
(d)
No license shall be suspended or revoked and no bond shall be forfeited under this article unless the licensee has been given at least three days written notice in person, or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the address of the licensee as shown on the license, of the intention of the governing authority to take such action. The failure or refusal to accept delivery of such notice shall be the equivalent of such notice. Such notice shall specify the time, place and purpose of the hearing and a statement of the charges upon which the governing authority proposes to take action. At such hearing, licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, and both the governing authority and the licensee shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses and to present evidence relating to the question as to whether or not a violation as set forth has occurred, as well as evidence relating to any extenuating or mitigating circumstances.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 29, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-200. - Excise taxes on distilled spirits.
(a)
There is hereby levied an excise tax, computed at the rate of $0.22 per liter, on all distilled spirits sold, displayed or stored in this city. Such tax shall be prorated on fractional liter sizes, so that each bottle or each individual size container shall be taxed on the basis of $0.22 per liter.
(b)
Each wholesale dealer selling, shipping or in any way delivering distilled spirits to any retailer in the city shall collect a tax levied by this article at the time of delivery and shall remit the same, together with a summary of all deliveries to each retailer, to the city on or before the twentieth day of the month following. Each wholesale dealer shall be paid three percent of the amount of taxes collected under this article as reimbursements for collection of such taxes.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any wholesale dealer to sell, ship or deliver in any manner any distilled spirits to a retailer without having collected the tax levied by this article. It shall likewise be unlawful for any retailer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any distilled spirits on which such tax has not be paid.
(Ord. No. 00-9-12-1, § 30, 9-12-00)
Sec. 6-201. - Sunday sales.
The following regulations shall apply to all establishments holding a license for the sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises (liquor by the drink): alcohol may be served on Sundays from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served and in any licensed establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging.
(Ord. of 12-13-11, § 1(Exh. C))
