Chapter 30 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 10; environment, ch. 18.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Unlawful acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful:
(1)
To place appliances, automobile parts, private construction waste, farm implements, furniture or parts thereof, dead animal carcasses or parts, trees or tree limbs, or industrial, manufacturing or processing waste in or outside dumpsters owned and placed by the county within the county;
(2)
For persons engaged in the business of collecting or hauling garbage, waste or trash to place such garbage, waste or trash in or outside dumpsters;
(3)
For contractors to place waste or refuse resulting from the performance of contracts or agreements in or outside of garbage dumpsters;
(4)
To scavenge, sort or remove the contents of a garbage dumpster;
(5)
To set fire to the contents of a dumpster or to place any highly flammable materials in said dumpster;
(6)
To place hazardous materials or vehicle tires in or outside dumpsters;
(7)
For any person, not a resident of the county, or any other person possessing or hauling refuse, garbage, waste or trash originating outside of the county, to place said refuse, garbage, waste or trash in the county dumpsters or on county road rights-of-ways;
(8)
For any person to place trash, refuse, garbage and/or waste of any kind in any place other than in the county-maintained dumpsters.
(b)
Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be punished per section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-2-1996)
Sec. 30-2. - Waste material generated outside county boundaries.
(a)
It is the policy and responsibility of the county government to:
(1)
Protect the soil, water, water basins, rivers, streams, lakes, wetlands, natural resources, air and general environment of the county; and
(2)
Provide for the safe disposal of garbage, debris, and other waste originated or generated from within the county.
(b)
No household garbage, construction waste or debris, chemical, chemical waste, industrial waste, septic tank or sewerage sludge, hazardous waste, asbestos or asbestos waste, petroleum waste, appliance, metal, automobile or automobile part, used tire, junk, or any other waste material which has originated or been generated outside the boundaries of the county shall be dumped in the county sanitary landfill.
(c)
No waste as described in subsection (b) of this section shall be deposited, stored, or disposed of in the county, except in waste landfills which have been approved and permitted by the environmental protection division of the department of natural resources of the state. In addition, the county may institute injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such an unlawful act or to correct or abate of such violation.
(Ord. of 9-3-1991)
Sec. 30-3. - Yard trimmings.
(a)
Definitions. All terms used in this section shall be defined as those terms are defined by O.C.G.A. § 12-8-22; however:
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass, clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(b)
Placement and disposal.
(1)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the county.
(2)
Yard trimmings shall not be placed in any county or city dumpster, or any other municipal solid waste disposal facility in the county, including municipal solid waste disposal facilities having liners and leachate collection systems or requiring vertical expansion.
(3)
Yard trimmings shall be sorted and stockpiled or chipped, composted, used as mulch or otherwise beneficially reused or recycled to the maximum extent feasible.
(Ord. of 7-2-1996)
Secs. 30-4—30-10. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOLID WASTE COLLECTION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of May 3, 2010, §§ (a)—(g), enacted provisions which did not specify manner of inclusion. To facilitate indexing, said provisions have been codified herein as Art. II, §§ 30-11—30-17.

Sec. 30-11. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this article shall apply to all incorporated and unincorporated areas of Talbot County, Georgia. Service in incorporated areas may be provided upon agreement with any subject municipal corporation, on the same terms as service is provided in unincorporated areas.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (a))
Sec. 30-12. - Definitions.
Dwelling unit. A building or portion of a building designed, occupied, or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities provided therein. The term dwelling unit shall not be deemed to include individual rooms or suites in a hotel, motel, rooming house, or hospital, but shall include each separate mobile home in a mobile home park and each dwelling in a multi-family dwelling and shall include such buildings or portion thereof which have been rented or leased by the owner to another party.
Mobile home park. An undivided parcel of land under single management which is used or intended to be used for rental or lease of spaces or lots and the provision of services for two or more mobile homes.
Multi-family dwelling. A dwelling designed for or occupied by three or more persons or families living independently of each other.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (b))
Sec. 30-13. - Assessment and allocation.
There is assessed upon every dwelling unit in the county a fee for providing solid waste collection and disposal in an amount to be set by the county board of commissioners each year. Each dwelling unit within the county shall be provided with a solid waste receptacle. The owner of each such dwelling unit shall be responsible for said fee.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (c))
Sec. 30-14. - Collection by tax commissioner.
All fees for solid waste collection and disposal shall be assessed upon the tax commissioner's books for each year and shall be collected by the tax commissioner. After collection, the tax commissioner shall transfer the solid waste fee to the county treasury at the same time as county ad valorem taxes. In collection of this solid waste fee, the tax commissioner shall have the authority to resort to any remedy or right allowed by law for the collection and payment of county ad valorem taxes.
The tax commissioner shall prepare and mail to each owner of residential property an annual billing for solid waste fees. The property owner shall be assessed a solid waste fee for each dwelling unit on the property. This solid waste fee will appear as a separate line item assessment on the owner's annual property tax bill and shall become due and payable at the same time that county taxes are due and payable. Each year's payment entitles the property owner to solid waste collection and disposal service for each dwelling unit at that property location for the succeeding year. If the solid waste fee remains unpaid, the tax commissioner or an authorized designee, shall have the authority to issue a fi. fa. or execution against the property served. The fi. fa. or execution shall have the same lien dignity and priority as a fi. fa. or execution issued for county ad valorem taxes. Each annual installment shall become a lien against the property served on January 1 of each year in the same manner and same priority that a lien attaches for county ad valorem taxes. Any solid waste fee that remains unpaid shall accrue penalty, interest, and fi. fa. charges in the same manner and the same rate as delinquent county ad valorem taxes.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (d))
Sec. 30-15. - Property tax appeals.
If a residential property owner files an appeal concerning the amount of county ad valorem taxes under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-311, the owner shall pay the solid waste fee in full.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (e))
Sec. 30-16. - Partial year service.
If construction is begun on undeveloped residential property after January 1, a fee of $60.00 is hereby imposed to cover the provision of solid waste collection to said properly until the next property tax bill is issued. Said $60.00 fee shall be paid at the time a building permit is issued.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (f))
Sec. 30-17. - Severability.
Should any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances for any reason be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or void, the validity of the remainder of this article, or the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby to the extent that any remaining portion of this article may reasonably be given effect without the invalid or void portion.
(Ord. of 5-3-2010, (§ (g))
