ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter and/or the technical codes adopted by reference in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building official orbuilding inspector means the official or assistant as designated by the board of commissioners to administer and enforce the provisions of said code; and includes and may be substituted for the term "electrical official," "gas official," "plumbing official," or "housing official" in every case where the board of commissioners has either chosen not to specifically appoint such trade official or has failed to do so.
Department means the state department of community affairs.
Governing authority orgoverning body means the board of commissioners of Morgan County, Georgia.
Trade official means the electrical official, gas official, plumbing official, or housing official.
Sec. 14-2. - Federal and state authority.
The provisions of this chapter shall not be held to deprive any federal or state agency, or any applicable governing authority having jurisdiction, of any power or authority which it had on the effective date of the adoption of this Code or of any remedy then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any individual or corporation of its legal rights.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(1.3.2))
Sec. 14-3. - Violations and penalties.
Any person or entity who shall violate any of the technical codes or fail to comply therewith, or who shall do work in violation of a detailed statement or drawing submitted and permitted hereunder, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, shall, for each such failure or violation or noncompliance, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished, in the discretion of the judge of the superior court or the judge of the magistrate court, according to the penalties provided in section 1-9. It shall be a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed or continued, and upon conviction there shall be punishment as provided by state laws.
(Code 2000, §§ 36-108(6), 36-110(4))
Secs. 14-4—14-24. - Reserved.
