Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power of counties, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ I; construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Morgan County, Georgia," and may be so cited. It may also be cited as "Morgan County Code."
(Code 2000, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified. In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Advice and consent. The term "advice and consent" means an affirmative vote of the majority of the board of commissioners actually present at the time of the vote.
Board of commissioners, board. The term "board of commissioners" or "board" means the board of commissioners of the County of Morgan, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" or "this Code" means The Code of Morgan County, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows:
(1)
"And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply.
(2)
"Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
"Either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the unincorporated areas of Morgan County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the county to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. Every word in any Code provision or ordinance importing the masculine or feminine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males or vice-versa as the case may be.
Governing authority or governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the board of commissioners of the County of Morgan, Georgia.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more county officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
Judge orrecorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the superior court of the county, the judge of the magistrate court of the county or the judge of any state court of the county, as the case may be.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
May not. The term "may not" states a prohibition.
Number. Every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The term "oath" means an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" or "sworn."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the governing body of a general and permanent nature.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Owner. The term "owner" means any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of a building or land.
Person. The term "person" means a corporation, firm, agency, partnership, association, organization, government, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means every type of property except real property.
Preceding and following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean immediately before and immediately after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" means anything of value, including but not limited to real estate, tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights, services, choices in action, and other interests in or claims to wealth, admission or transportation tickets, captured or domestic animals, food and drink, and electric or other power.
Provision. The term "provision" means any portion or part of this Code.
Real property. The term "real property" means lands, tenements, and all rights pertaining thereto.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" means only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the governing body of a special or temporary character.
Shall or will. These terms mean that a condition exists or an act or action will take place; these terms are mandatory and unconditional.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of the pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature or subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" means a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the state of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approach thereto, within the county.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant" means, with regard to a building or land, any person holding a written or oral lease thereof, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. The use of any verb in the present or past tense includes the future when applicable.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" means printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 2000, §§ 1-102, 1-103)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1(d)(3), 1-3-2, 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
History notes, cross references and state law references that appear in this Code after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
Unless specified otherwise, all references to chapters or sections are to chapters or sections of this Code.
(Code 2000, § 1-104)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of section or ordinance.
(a)
The repeal of a section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance or law repealing a former section, ordinance, clause or provision, shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 2000, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-5. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances or laws passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may, but are not required to be, numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, articles, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances or laws, such repealed portions may, but are not required to be, excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may but are not required to be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Morgan County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may but is not required to be used. "The Code of Morgan County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 2000, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners.
(Code 2000, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-7. - Severability.
(a)
If any chapter, section, paragraph, phrase or clause or any part of The Code of Morgan County, Georgia, shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, or if the provisions of any part of said document as applied to any particular situation or set of circumstances shall be declared invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not be construed to affect the portions of this document not so held to be invalid, or the application of this document to other circumstances not so held to be invalid. It is hereby declared as the intent of the board of commissioners that The Code of Morgan County, Georgia, would have been adopted had such invalid or unconstitutional portion not been included herein.
(b)
Where there is an apparent conflict in this document between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Code 2000, § 1-108)
Sec. 1-8. - Interpretation.
(a)
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Code shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the protection and promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
(b)
This Code and all inspections conducted and permits issued thereunder are hereby declared to be remedial, and shall be construed to secure the beneficial interest and purposes thereof, which are public safety, health and general welfare, through structural strength, stability, sanitation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment including alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings, structures or premises, and by regulating the installation and maintenance of all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, which may be referred to as service systems. Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of this Code except as it relates to the purposes stated herein. The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan, under the requirements of this Code shall not be construed in any court as a warranty of the physical condition of such building, system or plan or their adequacy. Neither the county board of commissioners nor any county official or county employee shall be liable for damages to any entity for any defect or hazardous or illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any failure of any component of such which may occur subsequent to such inspection or permitting.
(Code 2000, § 1-109)
Sec. 1-9. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge of the magistrate court.
(Code 2000, § 1-110; Ord. of 4-1-2008(1), § 2)
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of county ordinance, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20(b).
Sec. 1-10. - Punishment.
The infliction of a penalty under any provisions of this Code shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license and/or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the county's Code or other laws and regulations of the county or other governments. Except as otherwise provided by state law or the provisions of this Code, all matters alleging violation of this Code shall be tried in the magistrate court of the county as provided under O.C.G.A. § 15-10-2 or any applicable section of the Official Code of Georgia.
(Code 2000, § 1-111)
Sec. 1-11. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county, or any evidence of the county's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the county;
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the board of commissioners to any person, firm, or corporation;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the county;
(5)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any temporary, special or other uncodified ordinance;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees, or taxes now due or accrued;
(8)
Any subdivision or rezoning ordinance, or ordinance amending a zoning map;
(9)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision plat;
(10)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the county;
(11)
Any administrative ordinances or resolutions of the county not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(b)
All such actions, resolutions and ordinances of subsection (a) of this section are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect, or as continuing to be repealed, to the same extent as if set out at length in, or repealed by, as the case may be, this Code.
State Law reference— Future operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
Sec. 1-12. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the county. A supplement to this Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts or ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as necessary to do so in order to embody them into a unified code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Arrange the material into appropriate organizational units.
(2)
Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be included in the Code and make changes in any such catchlines, headings and titles or in any such catchlines, headings and titles already in the Code.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be added to this Code.
(4)
Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing numbers assigned to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections.
(5)
Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section" or "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in this Code).
(6)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinances inserted in this Code.
