ARTICLE V. - PERMITS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-213. - Work authorized.
A building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing permit shall carry with it the right to construct or install only the work shown on the drawings and set forth in the specifications filed with the application for the permit. Where these are not shown on the drawings and covered by the specifications submitted with the application, additional permits shall be required.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.1.2))
Sec. 14-214. - Contractor's responsibilities.
It shall be the duty of every contractor, who shall make contracts for the installation or repairs for which a permit is required, to comply with state and local rules and regulations concerning licensing which the applicable governing authority may have adopted. If the state requires a contractor to have obtained a state license, the contractor shall supply the local government with the license number before receiving a permit.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.5))
Secs. 14-215—14-236. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - APPLICATION

Sec. 14-237. - When required.
Any person or entity who desires to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by the technical codes, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the building official and obtain the required permit for the work.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.1.1))
Sec. 14-238. - Exceptions.
Permits shall not be required for the following mechanical work:
(1)
Any portable heating appliance;
(2)
Any portable ventilation equipment;
(3)
Any portable cooling unit;
(4)
Any portable evaporative cooler.
(Code 2000, § 36-108)
Sec. 14-239. - Minor repairs.
Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the building official without a permit, if such repairs will not violate any of the provisions of the technical codes.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.1.3))
Sec. 14-240. - Form; information required.
Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be filed with the building official on a form furnished for that purpose, and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner, or his or her authorized agent. The building permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure, and shall contain such other information as may be required by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.1.4))
Sec. 14-241. - Time limitations.
An application for a permit shall be deemed abandoned six months after the date of filing, unless a permit has been issued. One or more extensions of time, for periods of not more than 90 days each, may be allowed by the building official for the application, if the extension is requested in writing and justifiable cause is demonstrated.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.1.5))
Secs. 14-242—14-260. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PLANS, DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS

Sec. 14-261. - Requirements.
When required by the building official, two or more copies of specifications and drawings drawn to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany the application for a permit. Such drawings and specifications shall contain information, in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with the technical codes. Such information shall be specific, and the technical codes shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific information. All information, drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and signature of the design professional or person responsible for the plan, drawing or specification.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.1))
Sec. 14-262. - Additional data.
The building official may require details, computations, stress diagrams, and other data necessary to describe the construction or installation and the basis of calculations. All drawings, specifications and accompanying data required by the building official to be prepared by an architect or engineer shall be affixed with their official seal.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.2))
Sec. 14-263. - Design professional.
(a)
The design professional shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of architecture or engineering, and shall affix his or her official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data for the following:
(1)
All Group A, E and I occupancies.
(2)
Buildings and structures three stories or more high.
(3)
Buildings and structures 5,000 sq. ft. or more in area.
For all other buildings and structures, the submittal shall bear the certification of the applicant that some specific state law exception permits its preparation by a person not so registered.
(b)
Exception. Single-family dwellings, regardless of size, shall require neither a registered architect or engineer, nor a certification that an architect or engineer is not required.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.3))
Sec. 14-264. - Structural and fire resistance integrity.
Plans for all buildings shall indicate how required structural and fire resistance integrity will be maintained where a penetration of a required fire resistance wall, floor or partition will be made for electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing, signal and communication conduits, pipes and systems, and shall also indicate in sufficient detail how the fire integrity will be maintained where required fire-resistant floors intersect the exterior walls.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.4))
Sec. 14-265. - Site drawings.
Drawings shall show the location of the proposed building or structure and of every existing building or structure on the site or lot. The building official may require a boundary line survey prepared by a qualified surveyor.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.5))
Sec. 14-266. - Additional requirements.
The building official may require the following:
(1)
General site plan. A general site plan drawn at a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, the location of all buildings, exterior storage facilities, permanent accessways, evacuation routes, parking lots, internal roads, chemical loading areas, equipment cleaning areas, storm and sanitary sewer accesses, emergency equipment and adjacent property uses. The exterior storage areas shall be identified with the hazard classes and the maximum quantities per hazard class of hazardous materials stored.
(2)
Building floor plan. A building floor plan drawn to a legible scale which shall include, but not be limited to, all hazardous materials storage facilities within the building, and which shall indicate rooms, doorways, corridors, exits, fire-rated assemblies with their hourly rating, location of liquidtight rooms, and evacuation routes. Each hazardous materials storage facility shall be identified on the plan with the hazard classes and quantity range per hazard class of the hazardous materials stored.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.2.6))
Secs. 14-267—14-295. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PLAN REVIEW

Sec. 14-296. - Application examination.
The building official shall examine or cause to be examined each application for a permit and the accompanying documents, consisting of drawings, specifications, computations, and additional data, and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes and all other pertinent laws and ordinances.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.3.1))
Sec. 14-297. - Affidavits.
(a)
The building official may accept a sworn affidavit from a registered architect or engineer stating that the plans conform to the technical codes. For buildings and structures, the affidavit shall state that the plans conform to the laws as to egress, type of construction and general arrangement and, if accompanied by drawings showing the structural design, that the plans and design conform to the requirements of the technical codes as to strength, stresses, strains, loads and stability. The building official may, without any examination or inspection, accept such affidavit, if the architect or engineer who made such affidavit agrees to submit to the building official copies:
(1)
Of inspection reports as inspections are performed and upon completion of the structure; or
(2)
Of electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems a certification that the structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system has been erected in accordance with the requirements of the technical codes.
(b)
Where the building official relies upon such affidavit, the architect or engineer shall assume full responsibility for the compliance with all provisions of the technical codes and other pertinent laws, ordinances, or regulations.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.3.2))
Secs. 14-298—14-327. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - ISSUANCE, REVOCATION, AND REFUSAL

Sec. 14-328. - Action on permits.
The building official shall act upon an application for a permit without unreasonable or unnecessary delay. If the building official is satisfied that the work described in an application for a permit and the contract documents filed therewith conform to the requirements of the technical codes and other pertinent laws, regulations, and ordinances, he or she shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.4.1))
Sec. 14-329. - Refusal to issue permit.
If the application for a permit and the accompanying contract documents describing the work do not conform to the requirements of the technical codes or other pertinent laws, regulations, or ordinances, the building official shall not issue a permit, but shall return the contract documents to the applicant with his or her refusal to issue such permit. Such refusal shall, when requested, be in writing and shall contain the reason for refusal.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.4.2))
Sec. 14-330. - Public right-of-way.
A permit shall not be issued by the building official for the construction of any building, or for the alteration of any building which will affect the exterior walls, bays, balconies, or other appendages or projections fronting on any street, alley or public lane, or for the placing on any lot or premises of any building or structure removed from another lot or premises, unless the applicant ascertained the lines of the public street on which he or she proposes to build, erect or locate said building; and the building official shall see that the street lines are not encroached upon except as provided for in the building code.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.4.3))
Sec. 14-331. - Misrepresentation of application.
The building official may revoke a permit or approval issued under this chapter if there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to any material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(2.4.1))
Sec. 14-332. - Violations of Code provisions.
The building official may revoke a permit upon determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the building or structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems is in violation of this chapter.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(2.4.2))
Secs. 14-333—14-352. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - CONDITIONS OF THE PERMIT

Sec. 14-353. - Code compliance; work commencement; extension.
(a)
A permit shall be a license to proceed with the work, not authority to violate, cancel, alter or set aside any of the provisions of the technical codes. Nor shall issuance of a permit prevent the building official from requiring correction of errors in plans, construction, or violations of this Code.
(b)
Every permit issued shall become invalid if:
(1)
The work authorized is not commenced within six months after issuance; or
(2)
The work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for six consecutive months after the work is commenced.
(c)
One or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 90 days each, may be allowed for the permit. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. Extensions shall be in writing by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.6.1))
Sec. 14-354. - Permit based on affidavit.
Whenever a permit is issued in reliance upon an affidavit or whenever the work may be hazardous or complex, the building official shall require that an architect or engineer shall supervise such work. In addition, said architect or engineer shall be responsible for conformity with the permit, provide copies of inspection reports as inspections are performed, and upon completion file with the building official a written affidavit that the work has been done in conformity with the plans and the technical codes. If such architect or engineer is not available, the owner shall employ a competent person or agency whose qualifications are reviewed by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.6.2))
Sec. 14-355. - Plans reviewed.
When the building official issues a permit, he or she shall mark both sets of plans "Reviewed for Code Compliance." One set of drawings so reviewed shall be retained by the building official and the other set shall be returned to the applicant. The drawings shall be kept at the site of work and shall be open to inspection by the building official or his or her authorized representative.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.6.3))
Secs. 14-356—14-383. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - FEES

Sec. 14-384. - Prescribed fees.
A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed by the board of commissioners have been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure, or electrical, plumbing, mechanical or gas systems, etc., has been paid.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.7.1))
Sec. 14-385. - Penalty.
Any person who commences any work on a building or structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, before obtaining the necessary permits shall pay a penalty of 100 percent of the usual permit fee, plus the required permit fees.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.7.2))
Sec. 14-386. - Accounting.
The building official shall keep a permanent and accurate accounting of all permit fees and other money collected, the names of all persons upon whose account the same was paid, along with the date and amount thereof.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.7.3))
Sec. 14-387. - Schedule of permit fees.
On all buildings or structures, and electrical, plumbing, mechanical and gas systems requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid at the time of filing application, in accordance with the fee schedules set by the board of commissioners.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.7.4))
Sec. 14-388. - Building permit valuations.
If, in the opinion of the building official, the valuation of the building or structure, or the electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems appears to be underestimated on the application, the permit shall be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates that meet the approval of the building official. Permit valuations shall include total cost, such as electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing equipment and other systems, including materials and labor.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.7.5))
Secs. 14-389—14-419. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - INSPECTIONS

Sec. 14-420. - Existing building inspections.
Before issuing a permit, the building official may examine or cause to be examined any building or structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems for which an application has been received for a permit to enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, install, or change the occupancy. He or she shall inspect all buildings and structures, and all electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems, from time to time, during work and upon completion. He or she shall make a record of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.1))
Sec. 14-421. - Manufacturers and fabricators.
When deemed necessary by the building official, he or she shall make, or cause to be made, an inspection of materials or assemblies at the point of manufacture or fabrication. A record shall be made of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of the technical codes.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.2))
Sec. 14-422. - Inspection service.
The building official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services if after investigation he or she is satisfied as to their qualifications and reliability. A certificate called for by any provision of the technical codes shall not be based on such reports, unless in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such service.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.3))
Sec. 14-423. - Inspections required for certificate of occupancy or completion.
The building official shall inspect or cause to be inspected at various intervals all construction or work for which a permit is required, and a final inspection shall be made of every building or structure, and every electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system upon completion, prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy or completion.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.4))
Sec. 14-424. - Posting of permit.
Work requiring a permit shall not commence until the permit holder or his or her agent posts the permit in a conspicuous place on the premises. The permit shall be protected from the weather and located so as to allow the building official or representative to conveniently make the required entries thereon. This permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy or completion is issued by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.5))
Sec. 14-425. - Required inspections.
The building official, upon notification from the permit holder or his or her agent, shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as necessary, and shall either release that portion of the construction or notify the permit holder or his or her agent of any violations which must be corrected in order to comply with the technical code:
(1)
Building.
a.
Foundation inspection. The foundation inspection is to be made after trenches are excavated and forms erected.
b.
Frame inspection. The frame inspection is to be made after the roof, all framing, fireblocking and bracing are in place, and all concealing wiring, pipes, chimneys, ducts and vents are complete.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy.
(2)
Electrical.
a.
Underground inspection. The underground inspection is to be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, conduit or cable installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. The rough-in inspection is to be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing is in place and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made after the building is complete, all required electrical fixtures are in place and properly connected or protected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(3)
Plumbing.
a.
Underground inspection. The underground inspection is to be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. The rough-in inspection is to be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing is in place and all soil, waste and vent piping is complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made after the building is complete, all plumbing fixtures are in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(4)
Mechanical.
a.
Underground inspection. The underground inspection is to be made after trenches or ditches are excavated, underground duct and fuel piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place.
b.
Rough-in inspection. The rough-in inspection is to be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing are in place and all ducting and other concealed components are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made after the building is complete, the mechanical system is in place and properly connected, and the structure is ready for occupancy.
(5)
Gas.
a.
Rough piping inspection. The rough piping inspection is to be made after all new piping authorized by the permit has been installed, and before any such piping has been covered or concealed or any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected.
b.
Final piping inspection. The final piping inspection is to be made after all piping authorized by the permit has been installed and after all portions which are to be concealed by plastering or otherwise have been so concealed, and before any fixtures or gas appliances have been connected. This inspection shall include a pressure test.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made on all new gas work authorized by the permit and such portions of existing systems as may be affected by new work or any changes, to ensure compliance with all the requirements of this Code and to ensure that the installation and construction of the gas system is in accordance with permitted plans.
(6)
Energy.
a.
Foundation inspection. The foundation inspection is to be made before slab concrete is poured in place. To verify that perimeter insulation has been installed correctly on any slab on grade foundations, if required.
b.
Frame inspection. The frame inspection is to be made before exterior wall insulation is concealed by wall board to check installation of exterior wall insulation and to inspect that all holes and cracks through the structure envelope have been sealed in an appropriate manner to restrict air passage.
c.
Final inspection. The final inspection is to be made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. The final inspection shall verify installation and R-value of ceiling and floor insulation and verify correct Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio (SEER) ratings on appliances.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.6))
Sec. 14-426. - Release—Continuing work.
Work shall not be done on any part of a building or structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining a written release from the building official. Such written release shall be given only after an inspection has been made of each successive step in the construction or installation as indicated by each of the foregoing three inspections.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.7))
Sec. 14-427. - Same—To cover or conceal.
Reinforcing steel, structural frame, insulation, plumbing, mechanical and electrical work of any part of any building or structure shall not be covered or concealed without first obtaining permission from the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.8))
Sec. 14-428. - Same—Plaster fire protection.
In all buildings where plaster is used for fire protection purposes, the permit holder or his or her agent shall notify the building official after all lathing and backing is in place. Plaster shall not be applied until the release from the building official has been received.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.8.9))
Sec. 14-429. - Exemption from self-inspection statute.
The board of commissioners exempts the county from the provisions of House Bill 1221, Act No. 1046, codified as O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), which allows inter alia, master plumbers and utility contractors to self-inspect their own installation of water and sewer lines under conditions.
(Code 2000, § 36-111)
Secs. 14-430—14-456. - Reserved.
DIVISION 9. - CERTIFICATES

Sec. 14-457. - Certificate of occupancy—Generally.
A new building shall not be occupied or a change made in the occupancy, nature or use of a building or part of a building until after the building official has issued a certificate of occupancy. Said certificate shall not be issued until all required electrical, gas, mechanical, plumbing and fire protection systems have been inspected for compliance with the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances and approved by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.1.1))
Sec. 14-458. - Same—Contents.
Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a building or structure and installation of electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems in accordance with the technical codes, and after the final inspection and review of the plans and specifications, the building official shall issue a certificate of occupancy. The certificate of occupancy shall state the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons for each floor when limited by law, and the allowable load per square foot for each floor in accordance with the provisions of the technical codes.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.1.2))
Sec. 14-459. - Same—Temporary or partial.
A temporary or partial certificate of occupancy may be issued by the building official for a portion of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the building.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.1.3))
Sec. 14-460. - Same—Existing building.
A certificate of occupancy for any existing building may be obtained by applying to the building official and supplying the information and date necessary to determine compliance with the technical codes for the occupancy intended. The building official may determine, if necessary, that two sets of detailed drawings, or a general inspection, or both, may be required. When, upon examination and inspection, it is found that the building conforms to the provisions of the technical codes and other applicable laws and ordinances for such occupancy, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.1.4))
Sec. 14-461. - Certificate of completion.
Upon satisfactory completion of a building or structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, a certificate of completion may be issued. This certificate is proof that a structure or system is complete and, for certain types of permits, is released for use and may be connected to a utility system. This certificate does not grant authority to occupy or connect a building, such as a shell building, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.2))
Sec. 14-462. - Service utilities—Connection.
No person shall make connection from a utility source of energy, fuel or power to any building or system which is regulated by the technical codes for which a permit is required, until released by the building official.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.3.1))
Sec. 14-463. - Same—Temporary connection.
The building official may authorize the temporary connection of the building or system to the utility source of energy, fuel or power for the purpose of testing building service systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.3.2))
Sec. 14-464. - Same—Authority to disconnect.
The building official shall have the power to authorize disconnection of utility service to the building, structure or system regulated by the technical codes, where necessary, to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The building official shall notify the serving utility, and whenever possible the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system, of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter.
(Code 2000, § 36-108(3.9.3.3))
Secs. 14-465—14-481. - Reserved.
