ARTICLE II. - STATE MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION CODES

Sec. 14-25. - Standard codes adopted.
(a)
The following are adopted by reference:
(1)
The state minimum codes enumerated in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9)(B)(i), as now or hereafter revised or modified pursuant to state law.
(2)
The most recent editions of the following:
a.
The International Property Maintenance Code.
b.
The International Existing Building Code.
c.
The ICC Performance Code.
d.
The International Private Sewage Disposal Code.
e.
The National Fire Codes.
f.
The NFPA 101 Life Safety Code.
g.
The Georgia Accessibility Code, chapter 120-30-20.
h.
The National Electrical Code.
i.
The International Fuel Gas Code.
j.
The International Fire Code.
k.
The International Building Code.
l.
The International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
m.
The International Plumbing Code.
n.
The International Mechanical Code.
o.
The International Energy Conservation Code.
(b)
If any of the publications listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section are adopted as a state minimum code pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 8, ch. 2, art. 1, part 2 (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.), then the edition adopted by the state shall control. If any of the publications listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section are less stringent than the state minimum codes promulgated pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 8, ch. 2, art. 1, part 2 (O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.), the state minimum code shall control.
(c)
A copy of each of the publications listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section, as adopted by the state, is filed in the planning and development office, and available for review by the public. The same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the unincorporated areas of the county.
(d)
The building official and the county building department shall enforce the state minimum codes adopted herein.
(Code 2000, § 36-101)
Secs. 14-26—14-53. - Reserved.
