Chapter 71 - UTILITIES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 71-1—71-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - THEFT OF UTILITIES

Sec. 71-50. - Purpose.
Illegally obtaining electricity, gas and water by various means, resulting in a loss of revenue to utilities creates a dangerous situation that can result in the loss of life or property. This section shall be cumulative of O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25, and is enacted in accordance with O.C.G.A. § l6-7-25(c).
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 71-51. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Utility means any company, electric membership corporation or cooperative, municipality, or political subdivision engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water or other utility service.
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 71-52. - Theft of utilities prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
(1)
Cut, remove or in any manner make ineffective any seal, locking band or lock on an electric, gas, water or other utility meter;
(2)
Restore utility service by any means after service has been terminated, or to obtain electricity, gas, water or other utility service without making the proper deposit with a utility or receiving proper authorization from a utility;
(3)
Obtain electricity, gas, water or other utility service by use of jumper wires, or by any other means which bypass a metering device either partially or completely;
(4)
Damage or tamper in any manner with any part of a metering device belonging to a utility;
(5)
Change or alter the normal installed position of a metering device in any fashion which causes the normal accurate recording of utility service received to be altered and inaccurate;
(6)
Obtain electricity, gas or water or other utility service by use of a metering device which is not authorized by a utility;
(7)
Interfere with the automatic registration, recording and transmission of electricity, gas or water consumption or other utility service when readings are recorded and/or transmitted electronically;
(8)
Fraudulently obtain, or attempt to obtain, service from a utility by using a false name or identification;
(9)
Fraudulently obtain, or attempt to obtain, service from a utility by placing the account in the name of someone else after the service has been disconnected for nonpayment or theft of service while the person in whose name the service was in when disconnected is still living at the location of the service; or
(10)
Receive electrical power, gas service or water service or other utility service without proper authorization from a utility.
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 71-53. - Violations; penalties.
Alleged violations of this section shall be tried in the magistrate court of Morgan County. Any person found guilty of violating this article shall be fined a sum not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) on each count. Each day that the violation continues is a separate count.
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 71-54. - Restitution.
In addition to any penalties for violation of this article, any person found guilty of violating any portion of this article will be required to make full restitution to the utility for the cost of the services obtained in violation of this article, for damage to equipment of a utility and for all associated costs of the investigation. In calculating the amount of restitution to be paid, the court is authorized to consider the following evidence:
(1)
The cost of the service received as a result of violating this section shall be computed by the utility;
(2)
The cost of any damage to utility equipment shall be based on the actual costs. Costs may be computed and updated annually; and
(3)
Investigative and any associated costs will be computed and updated annually by the utility.
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
Sec. 71-55. - Presumption.
Any person in possession of any premises, whether as owner, occupant, or tenant, who is found to have an electric, gas or water meter or other utility service meter which has been tampered with or altered in violation of this article or found to be receiving electricity, gas or water or other utility service as a result of any of the methods described above shall be presumed to have knowingly violated the terms of this section. Such receipt of electricity, gas or water shall be deemed prima facie evidence of an intent to defraud or deprive the utility of recovering proper charges for payment for such service.
(Ord. of 11-2-2010, § 1(exh. A))
