VII. - EROSION CONTROL
PART I - GENERAL

1.1 - SCOPE
The work specified in this section consists of furnishing, installing and maintaining temporary erosion controls and temporary sedimentation controls as well as establishing final stabilization of the site.
1.2 - BASIS OF DESIGN
All erosion and sedimentation control shall be prepared in accordance with the City of Kingsland Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance. The "Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia," published by the State Soil and Water Conservation Committee of Georgia, should be used as a reference manual.
PART 2 PRODUCTS
2.1 - MATERIALS
All erosion and sedimentation control devices shall be in conformance with the current edition of the "Manual For Soil Erosion And Sediment Control In Georgia", published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
PART 3 EXECUTION
3.1 - SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
A.
Silt dams, traps, barriers and appurtenances shall be installed and shall be maintained in-place for duration of construction.
B.
Hay bales shall be staked with two (2) 1" × 4" wood stakes per bale driven eighteen (18) inches into the ground and finishing flush with the top of the bale.
1.
Install two (2) stakes per bale with the long dimension of the stakes parallel to the long dimension of the bale.
2.
Where bales are installed in multiple layers, the bales shall be installed with vertical joints staggered and two (2) 1" × 4" wood stakes per bale driven through all layers, full from top of bale to eighteen inches into the ground.
C.
Hay bales, which have deteriorated, shall be replaced with new materials.
D.
Erosion and sedimentation controls shall be maintained in a condition, which will retain unfiltered water.
E.
The Contractor shall construct the sedimentation ponds and control devices prior to clearing and grubbing the site to insure complete silt control. When the silt or the debris level is greater than 1 foot above the bottom of the pond, the Contractor shall remove the silt or debris to restore the proper elevation for the bottom of the pond.
F.
The Contractor shall have all erosion and sedimentation control devices in service and operating properly prior to completion and final acceptance of the contract.
G.
All phases of construction must be completed in accordance with the Erosion and Sedimentation Act 12-7-1 et seq., and no water main must be installed on or in close proximity of an abandoned landfill site or any site used for waste disposal.
3.2 - RESPONSIBILITY
The Contractor shall be solely responsible for insuring that no silt or debris leaves the immediate construction site. Any silt or debris that does leave the immediate site shall be cleaned up and the area disturbed shall be returned to its natural state as directed by the City at the Contractor's expense.
END OF SECTION VII
EROSION CONTROL
PART B BASIS OF DESIGN AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
