ARTICLE XII. - SIGNS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2014-05, adopted Sept. 22, 2014, amended Art. XII in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. XII, §§ 120, 121, pertained to similar subject matter. For prior history, see Code Comparative Table.

Sec. 120. - Signs.
120.1 Purpose and Intent.
1) In General. The regulation of, size, placement and certain features of signs is necessary to enable the public to locate goods, services and facilities in the City of Kingsland without difficulty and confusion, to improve the general attractiveness of the community, to take advantage of the beauty of the community's natural environment, and to protect property values therein. Signs are recognized as a development standard in keeping with other development standards such as uses permitted, building setbacks, minimum parking requirements, minimum lot size, minimum landscaping, maximum unit density, etc. It is, therefore, the intention of the City of Kingsland to establish regulations governing the display of signs which will:
a) Promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
b) Enhance the economy, business and industry of the City by promoting reasonable, orderly and effective display of signs.
c) Restrict signs and lights which increase visual clutter, or increase the probability of traffic accidents by obstructing vision or creating undue visual distraction.
d) Promote signs which are compatible with their surroundings in terms of zoning, existing land use and architectural characteristics.
120.1.1 Intent. As these or any regulations can only establish the mechanical limits of signs and not enforce a level of visual quality in sign design, anyone planning a sign is strongly encouraged to consider:
1. The character of the proposed sign and the audience for which the sign is designed. The applicant is urged to think not only of the sign itself, but also the effects such a sign will have upon the character of the surrounding area.
2. The character of the sign structure, that is, the physical means of supporting the sign, and whether that structure could be made an integral part of the sign rather than a separate and frequently distracting element.
Before applying for a permit or erecting an exempted sign, anyone contemplating a sign is also encouraged to contact the Department of Community Planning and Development of the City of Kingsland and/or a private firm or individual engaged in sign/graphic design for advice or assistance in planning a sign.
120.1.2 Jurisdiction. This ordinance shall apply to all properties located within the corporate limits of Kingsland, Georgia. This ordinance shall not relate to the copy or message on athletic field scoreboards, official signs of any government, gravestones, commemorative plaques, or display of construction not defined herein as a sign.
120.1.3 Applicability of Other Code Requirements.
1) All signs and other advertising structures shall be constructed and/or maintained in strict conformity with the building and electrical codes adopted by the City of Kingsland.
2) If any provisions or requirements of this Ordinance are found to be in conflict with any other provision or requirement of this ordinance or of any other applicable governmental law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or other governmental regulation of any kind, the more restrictive rule or standard shall take precedence.
120.1.4 Variances. Variances from the provisions of this ordinance may be requested. All such variances shall be considered and recommended by the Planning Commission in accordance with officially adopted procedures and standards contained in the City of Kingsland Zoning and Land Development Ordinance. Once considered and recommended by the Planning Commission, such variance shall go before the City Council for final approval. The granting of a variance shall not establish precedence in the consideration of any other variance request.
120.2 Definitions. Words and phrases used in this ordinance shall have the meanings set forth in this section. Words and phrases not defined in this section but defined in the zoning ordinance (Zoning and Land Development Ordinance) of the City shall be given the meanings set forth in such ordinance. Principles for computing sign area and sign height are contained in this section. Words not defined herein shall be defined in accordance with Webster's Dictionary, latest edition.
A-FRAME SIGN: A sign which is normally in the shape of an "A" or some variation thereof and which is usually two-sided, and normally not permanently attached to the ground.
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign and/or sign structure which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person, or advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product, service or activity available on or off the premises where such sign and/or sign structure is located. Off-premise signs with content denoting availability of advertising space are not considered abandoned.
ADVERTISE: To inform; to notify; to announce; or attract public attention in order to arouse desire to purchase or invest.
ADVERTISING DEVICE: Any structure or device, situated upon or attached to real property, which is erected or intended for the purpose of advertising.
AIR AND GAS FILLED DEVICE: Any sign using, either wholly or in part, forced air or other gas as a means of supporting its structure, including but not limited to balloons, blimps, etc.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign or display manifesting either kinetic or illusionary motion occasioned by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical, or other means. Animated signs include the following types:
(1) Naturally energized: A sign whose motion is activated by wind or other atmospheric impingement. Wind driven signs include flags, banners, pennants, streamers, metallic disks, or other similar devices designed to move in the wind.
(2) Manually energized: A sign whose motion is activated human or animal action.
(3) Mechanically energized: A sign manifesting a repetitious pre-programmed physical movement or rotation in either one or a series of planes activated by means of mechanically based drives.
(4) Electrically energized: Illuminated signs whose motion or visual impression of motion is activated primarily by electronic means. Electrically energized animated signs are of two types:
(a) Flashing signs: Illuminated signs exhibiting a preprogrammed repetitious cyclical interruption of illumination from one or more sources in which the duration of the period of illumination (on phase) is either the same as or less than the duration of the period of darkness (off phase), and in which the intensity of illumination varies from zero (off) to 100 percent (on) during the programmed cycle.
(b) Movement signs: Illuminated signs exhibiting the illusion of movement by means of a preprogrammed repetitious sequential switching action in which illuminated elements of the sign are turned on or off to visually simulate the impression of motion characteristic of chasing, running, blinking, oscillating, twinkling, scintillating, or expanding and contracting light patterns.
AREA OF SIGN (SIGN AREA) (COPY AREA): The area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar character together with any frame, other material, open space, or color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate such sign from the background against which it is placed. Back-to-back signs (double-faced signs), only one (1) display face shall be measured in computing sign area where the sign faces arc parallel.
AWNINGS: See "Canopy".
BACK-TO-BACK SIGN: A sign constructed on a single set of supports with messages visible on any side, provided that double message boards are physically contiguous. Only one (1) display face shall be measured in computing sign area (see "area of sign above).
BALLOON: See "Air and Gas Filled Device" above.
BANNER/PENNANT: A temporary sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame, possessing characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind, excluding flags, emblems, and insignia of political, professional, religious, educational or corporate organizations provided that such flags, emblems and insignia are displayed for non-commercial purposes.
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
BENCH SIGN: A sign located on any part of the surface of a bench or seat placed on or adjacent to a public right-of-way.
BUILDING MARKER: Any sign indicating the name of a building, the date and incidental information about its construction which is cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Director of Community Planning and Development of the City of Kingsland. or his authorized representative.
BUILDING SIGN: Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to a free-standing sign.
CANOPY/MARQUEE: Any permanent roof-like structure, including awnings and marquees, projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of a building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather. (This is usually related to, but not limited to, being located over a sidewalk, or walkway, or vehicle access area.)
CANOPY/MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign painted on, attached to, or hung from a canopy/marquee.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign on which message copy is changed manually in the field, through the utilization of attachable letters, numbers, symbols and other similar characters or changeable pictorial panels.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE: Any wording, logo, or other representation that directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business, product service, or other commercial activity.
COMMERCIAL/OFFICE CENTER: A single parcel of land containing two (2) or more businesses or establishments, including all forms of retail, wholesale, and services.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: An on-premise sign announcing the proposed or existing construction of a building or project. In all instances, this is a "temporary sign", to be removed immediately upon completion of the construction project. Also see "Project Sign" below.
COPY: The wording or graphics on a sign surface in either permanent or removable form.
DILAPIDATED SIGN: Any sign which is structurally unsound, has defective parts or is in need of painting or maintenance.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: An unofficial or non-standard traffic control sign, containing no commercial message except logos, intended to direct or regulate the movement of traffic and/or pedestrians. This includes, but is not limited to, "enter", "exit", "drive through", and directional arrow signs. These signs may be freestanding or mounted on a building.
DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign which gives the name and/or occupation of the occupants of a building, or identifies the particular use of a building.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, paint or affix.
ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial, industrial, institutional, educations, office, business, or financial entity.
EXISTING SIGN: Any sign that was erected, mounted or displayed prior to the adoption of this amendment to the Sign Regulations, as previously adopted.
FACADE: The entire building wall, including main street wall face, and parapet, facial, windows, doors, canopy and roof on any complete elevation.
FIXED PROJECTING SIGN: A sign, other than a flat sign, which extends outward for more than six (6) inches from the facade of any building and is rigidly affixed thereto.
FLAG: Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other entity.
FLAT SIGN: A sign erected parallel to and extending not more than twelve inches (12") from the facade of any building to which it is attached and supported throughout its entire length by the facade of the building and not extend above the building.
FLASHING SIGN: See "Animated Sign" above.
FREE-STANDING SIGN: A sign which is supported by one or more columns, uprights, or braces in or upon the ground and is not attached to a building and is not mobile or temporary.
GOVERNMENTAL SIGNS: Any sign approved, authorized, erected and maintained by State or local governmental authorities. (Also see "Municipal Sign" below)
GROUND SIGN: A free-standing sign which has no air space between the signage copy area and the ground surface.
HEIGHT: The distance from the ground to the top of the sign as measured between the further-most points.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: Any local historic district designed by the City of Kingsland, including any National Register historic districts within the City limits.
HISTORIC SIGN: Any animated neon sign over thirty (30) years old. any existing barber pole or any other sign so designated by the City of Kingsland. Extensions, additions and embellishments are not considered part of a historic sign.
HOME OCCUPATION SIGNS: A wall sign for a legally existing home occupation on residential premises, containing no commercial message except advertising for services legally offered on the premises where the sign located, if allowed in the Home Occupation Ordinance of the City of Kingsland.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign depicting the name of a building and/or the address of an establishment on the premises where the sign is located. The name and/or address may be included as part of another signage type.
ILLEGAL SIGN or ILLEGALLY ERECTED SIGN: Any sign which is erected without a permit when a permit for the sign was otherwise required by this ordinance or previously adopted ordinance or code; or was permitted but which has not been properly erected in accordance with its permit application and approved sign permit; does not meet the requirements of this code and which has not received legal nonconforming status; a sign which has become hazardous or a nuisance to the public due to poor maintenance, dilapidation, or abandonment, and so declared by the Building Official.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign designed to give forth artificial light directly or through transparent or translucent material from a source of light within such sign, including but not limited to, neon and exposed lamp signs.
INCIDENTAL SIGN: A general information sign that has a purpose secondary to the use of the parcel on which it is located. This includes but is not limited to credit cards accepted, official notice of services as required by law, trade affiliations, business hours, "telephone", "self-service", etc. These type signs are typically located on doors, windows, or building walls. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the parcel on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
LOT: See "Parcel" below.
MANSARD SIGN: Any sign attached to or erected within 12 inches of an actual or simulated mansard of a building, with the sign face parallel to the building surface. Since the sign is to be mounted parallel to and within the limits of the building, it is not deemed to be a roof sign.
MARQUEE: See "Canopy" above.
MOVING SIGN: See "Animated Sign" above.
MUNICIPAL SIGN: Any sign erected on city-owned property with the consent of the city building official.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Either illegal (as defined above) or legal which is either:
(1) A sign which was erected legally but which does not comply with subsequently enacted sign restrictions and regulations; or
(2) A sign which does not conform to the sign code requirements but for which a special permit has been issued.
NON-PROFIT ACTIVITY: An activity, project, operation or enterprise of a temporary nature carried on by a corporation or an organization qualified as an exempt organization under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
OFF-PREMISE SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a building, profession, product, service, activity, or entertainment not conducted, sold, or offered on the property upon which the sign is located.
OFFICE CENTER/COMMERCIAL: See "Commercial/Office Center" above.
ON-PREMISE SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a building, profession, product, service, activity, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered on the property upon which the said sign is located.
PAINTED WALL SIGN: Any sign which is applied with paint or similar substance on the face of a wall.
PARAPET: A vertical false front or wall extension above the roof line.
PARCEL (LOT): Any piece, standard lot, or parcel of land, the boundaries of which have been established by a recorded legal instrument and recorded with the Clerk of Superior Court of Camden County, Georgia. A parcel may include more than one contiguously platted lot under common ownership which is identified as a single unit on official tax maps, and in such case the word "parcel" shall refer to that unit of land so identified.
PENNANT: See "Banner" above.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign permanently affixed to a building or to the ground.
PERSON: An individual, or any association, company, corporation, firm, organization, or partnership, singular or plural, of any kind.
POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign used in connection with a local, state or national election or referendum. This includes but is not limited to urging voter support for or in opposition to a particular issue, political party or candidate for public office.
PORTABLE SIGN: A mobile/temporary sign supported by its own frame or trailer type frame, with or without wheels, which is designed to be transported from one place to the other and not permanently attached to the ground.
PREMISES: An area of land with its appurtenances and building which, because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real estate.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The building in which is conducted the principal use of the parcel on which it is located. Parcels with multiple principal uses may have multiple principal buildings. However, storage buildings, garages, and other clearly accessory uses shall not be considered principal building.
PROJECT SIGN: Any sign erected and maintained on the premises temporarily while undergoing construction by an architect, contractor, developer, finance organization, subcontractor or materials vendor upon which property such individual is furnishing labor, services or material. Also see "Construction Sign" above.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign which is attached to the building wall and which horizontally extends more than twelve (12) inches beyond the surface of such building or wall.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE: The line where the property meets the public right-of-way at a public street or public waterway, provided that this definition shall not include unimproved alleys, easements or other similar dedicated uses.
PUBLIC SERVICE SIGN: A sign designed to render a public service such as but not limited to "time and temperature" signs and "flashing news" signs.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, highway, road, path or right-of-way, whether privately or publicly owned, which is designed, or used for vehicular or pedestrian traffic either by public right or custom, or by invitation of two (2) or more common owners.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign erected by the owner, or his agent, advertising the real property upon which the sign is located, including but not limited to "For Rent", "For Lease", "For Sale", "Open House", etc.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN: A temporary sign bearing information about a subdivision or other residential development during the time its lots or homes are being offered for sale or lease.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Includes all land zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MH and PUD.
REVOLVING SIGN: See "Animated Sign" above.
ROOF: The exterior upper covering of the top of a building.
ROOF SIGN: A sign that is mounted on the roof of a building or which is wholly dependent upon a building for support and projects above the roof of the building if the building has a flat roof, the eave line of a building with a gambrel, gable or hip roof, or the deck line of a building with a mansard roof.
ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL: Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than six (6) inches.
SETBACK: The distance required between the property line and any building,. structure, or sign, as measured along the shortest straight line between them.
SIDEWALK, SANDWICH OR A-FRAME SIGN: A sign which is normally in the shape of an "A" or some variation thereof and which is usually two-sided. These signs are normally not permanently attached to the ground.
SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration or device, illuminated or non-illuminated, which is visible to the general public and directs attention to a product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise; or any emblem, painting, flag, banner, pennant, balloon or placard designed to advertise, identify, or convey information.
SIGN NUMBER: For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be construed to be a single display surface or device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a single unit. In cases where material is displayed in a random or unconnected manner, or where there is reasonable doubt as to the intended relationship of such components, each component or element shall be considered to be a single sign. A projecting sign or free-standing sign with identical copy on both sides (faces) of the sign and both sign faces being less than 36 inches apart, shall be construed as a single sign.
SIGN CONSTRUCTION: Any construction used or designed to support a sign.
SNIPE SIGN: A sign of any material whatsoever that is attached in any way to a utility pole, tree, fence, rock, or any other similar object located on public or private property. Snipe signs shall not include "keep out", "posted", or "no trespassing" signs.
STREET: Any public or private right-of-way for vehicular traffic, excluding alleyways, parking lots and driveways.
STREET FRONTAGE: The width in linear feet of a lot or parcel where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street.
SUBDIVISION SIGN: A permanent free-standing sign or wall sign identifying an approved subdivision, neighborhood, or residential complex.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign which must be removed at either the expiration of a specific number of days or at the time a specific event occurs or within a specific time interval after a specific event occurs.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGN: A standard sign or electronic device (such as a traffic signal, stop sign, one-way, handicap, no parking, fire lane, etc.) for the purpose of directing or regulating traffic and/or pedestrians.
UNLAWFUL SIGN: See "Illegal Sign" above.
WALL FACE: A measurement of area equal to the height of the structure from the ground to the coping or cave of the roof multiplied by the width of the wall associated with the individual business. The wall face is to be measured for each wall independently.
WALL SIGN: A sign which is affixed or attached to an exterior wall of a building or structure, extending no more than 12" beyond the wall and which displays only one sign surface.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign, excluding identification and incidental signs, placed inside or upon a window, containing a commercial message, and intended to be seen from the exterior.
120.3 Permitting, Maintenance and Enforcement.
120.3.1 Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided herein, it will be unlawful for any person or firm to, or cause to erect, enlarge, move, convert, or replace any sign in the City of Kingsland without first obtaining a sign permit from the Director of Community Planning and Development.
A sign permit shall be required for a new business making any changes on an existing sign which has previously been permitted.
120.3.2 Permit not Required for Repairs, Maintenance. A sign permit will not be required for the repair or maintenance of a conforming sign for which a permit has already been issued, provided the sign is not modified in any way different from its original condition, including changes to permanent sign copy. This section will not require a sign permit for changes to sign copy on any off-premise sign so long as the copy material is lightweight, and does not increase the size of the sign face. This section does not apply to a new business making any changes on an existing sign (see above).
120.3.3 Application for Sign Permit. All applications for sign permits shall be submitted on forms provided by the City to the Director of Community Planning and Development. The application shall set forth in writing a complete description of the sign and shall include but not be limited to the following information:
1. Name, address and telephone number of the sign owner.
2. Name, address and telephone number of the sign contractor or installer.
3. Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the lot or parcel on which the sign is located, if different from the above.
4. Street address and current zoning of the property location for the proposed sign.
5. Scale plan and elevation drawings of the proposed sign indicating all applicable dimensions, including the sign's relation to property lines, street rights-of-way, and other structures.
6. Construction drawings outlining the scope and structural details of the work to be done, including details of all connections, guy lines, supports, footings, and materials to be used.
7. Electrical permit, if applicable.
8. Written agreement to indemnify and hold the City harmless for all damages, demands or expenses of every type which may in any manner be caused by the sign or sign structure.
9. Landscaping plan for on-premises free-standing signs, when applicable.
120.3.4 Fees. Sign permit fees and will be due and payable prior to the issuance of the Sign Permit. Fees for Sign Permits are as follows:
Wall Signs .....$50.00
Ground Signs .....$75.00
Pylon Signs according to height:
20′ to 50′ .....$100.00
51′ to 75′ .....$135.00
76′ to 100′ .....$175.00
101′ and Over .....$250.00
120.3.5 Permit Issuance and Duration. The Director of Community Planning and Development will issue to any applicant, upon receipt of a completed application and accompanying material for a sign which meets the requirements of this ordinance, and upon payment of the required fee, a written sign permit evidencing compliance with all applicable codes and regulations. The written sign permit, or notification of denial, shall be made available to the applicant within five (5) working days from the date of application.
A permit for a permanent sign will expire and become null and void if construction of the sign has not begun within a period of three (3) months from the date of issuance, and completed within six (6) months from the date of issuance.
Issuance of a sign permit will in no way prevent the Director of Community Planning and Development from later declaring the sign to be nonconforming or unlawful if upon further review of available information, the sign is found not to comply with the requirements of this ordinance.
120.3.6 Maintenance.
(1) All signs shall be maintained as follows:
(a) Signs shall be kept clean, neatly painted and maintained at all times so as not to be detrimental to public health and safety. This includes but is not limited to keeping the sign free from faulty wiring, loose fastenings, and sharp or otherwise dangerous protrusions.
(b) No trash or rubbish will be allowed to accumulate in the area around a sign and all weeds shall be kept out.
(2) Removal of abandoned signs:
Any abandoned sign(s) and/or sign structure(s) shall be removed by the property owner or sign owner prior to or within thirty (30) days after written notification from a designated official of the City. If the property owner or sign owner fails to comply within thirty (30) days after written notification, the City may cause the removal of the sign at the property owner's or sign owner's expense.
120.3.7 Enforcement.
1) This Ordinance shall be enforced as provided by the Code of Ordinances of the City of Kingsland, and each day of violation shall be regarded as a separate offense.
2) Removal of Signs: Any of the following signs shall be immediately removed upon notification from the Building Inspector or his authorized representative:
(a) A sign which is classified as unlawful under the terms of this ordinance.
(b) A sign which does not conform to the Standard Building Code.
3) Revocation of Permit: A sign permit shall be revoked if it is found not to be in compliance with this ordinance due to misinformation or significant error on the sign permit application.
4) Impoundment of Signs:
(a) The Director and his staff shall have the authority to remove all signs, without notice to the owners thereof, placed within any street or highway right-of-way, signs attached to trees, fencepost, telephone and utility poles, other natural features, or signs otherwise prohibited by this article, and to impound them for a period of ten (10) days.
(b) The owner of a sign impounded may recover same upon the payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each sign, prior to the expiration of the ten-day impoundment period; in the event it is not claimed within ten (10) days, the Director shall have the authority to dispose of such sign.
5) Interpretation and Conflict:
(a) Minimum Requirements: The standards and provisions of this article shall be interpreted as being the minimum requirements necessary to uphold the purposes of this article.
(b) Other City Requirements: Whenever this article imposes a higher standard than required by any other City ordinance or requirement, the provisions of this article shall govern. Whenever any other City ordinance or requirement imposes a higher standard than required by this article, the provisions of such City ordinance or requirement shall govern.
(c) Private Restrictions. Whenever this article imposes a higher standard than required by casements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(d) Statutes. When the provisions of any applicable state or federal statute impose a higher standard than required by this article, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
120.4 General Regulations.
120.4.1 Prohibited Signs. The following signs and advertising devices are prohibited within the City limits:
(1) Signs displaying any words, characters, or illustrations of an obscene, indecent or immoral nature as fined by the Code of Ordinances of the City of Kingsland, Georgia.
(2) Abandoned or dilapidated signs.
(3) Signs which advertise or encourage an illegal activity as defined by local, state or federal laws.
(4) Any sign on or towed behind a boat, raft, aircraft or helicopter.
(5) Permanent A-frame, sandwich type, sidewalk, or curb signs. Any such signs shall be removed nightly, shall not encroach on any handicap access, and shall be at least four (4) feet from any automobile travel path.
(6) Animated signs, including those that flash, blink, change image, or show any form of movement, excluding historic signs and those officially designated for public service except as permitted by section 120.9(5),
(7) Signs that resemble any official traffic control device or emergency vehicle markings.
(8) Signs which make use of the words "stop", "look", "danger", or any word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse vehicular traffic.
(9) Unshielded illuminated devices that produce glare or create a hazard or nuisance to motorists or occupants of adjacent properties.
(10) Signs attached to or painted on vehicles of any type which are conspicuously parked in proximity to a right-of-way, and obviously parked in such a way as to advertise any business or service to motorists or pedestrians.
(11) No sign of any kind shall be erected or displayed in any salt marsh areas on any land subject to periodic inundation by tidal saltwater.
(12) Snipe signs.
(13) Roof signs or any non-freestanding sign which extends above the roof line of a building.
(14) Tethered balloons or other inflatable signs located in a commercial district other than the C-1, Central Business District for one week. Beyond a week, balloons must be permitted as temporary signs. One week limit is measured over 3-month period.
(15) Signs which emit visible smoke, vapor, particles, or odor.
(16) Signs with lighting or control mechanisms which cause radio, television, or other communications interference.
(17) Motion picture mechanisms used in such a manner as to permit or allow images to be visible from a public right-of-way or sidewalk.
(18) Except as otherwise provided no sign, whether temporary or permanent, except by a public agency, is permitted within any street or highway right-of-way.
(19) Signs painted on or attached to trees, fencepost, rocks or other natural features, telephone or utility poles or painted on the roofs of buildings visible from any public thoroughfare.
(20) Search lights and beacons.
(21) Strings of lights, pennants, or other similar attention-getting devices.
120.4.2 Exempt Signs. Except as otherwise provided, the following on-premise signs may be erected without securing a permit, provided that each is in accordance with the prescribed conditions and all other applicable codes and regulations:
(1) One (1) professional nameplate for each establishment. Each professional nameplate shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
(2) One (1) separate identification sign for each establishment when affixed to a building wall or window and limited to a maximum size of two (2) square feet. The purpose of the sign is to identify the establishment's street address, suite or unit number, etc.
(3) Informational bulletin boards for public, charitable, educational or religious institutions when located on the premises of said institution and affixed to a building wall. Bulletin boards may not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area and shall be located at least fifteen (15) feet from any property line when said institution is located in a residential district.
(4) Legal notices and official instruments.
(5) Flags, subject to the maximum area limitations of Table B or C, and the following provisions:
(a) Limited to official flags of the United States, Georgia. Camden County. City of Kingsland, or any other flag sanctioned by the City of Kingsland.
(b) Flag poles shall not exceed forty (40) feet in height (total length) and flags must be flown in accordance with the standard protocol.
(c) Government owned parcels are exempt from total flag area limitations.
(6) Decorative flags, banners, and bunting for city wide celebrations, conventions, and commemorations when specifically authorized by the City Council for a prescribed period of time.
(7) Holiday lights and decorations.
(8) One (1) "building marker" per building.
(9) Non-advertising directional signs or symbols (e.g., entrance, exit, caution, slow, or no trespassing) located on and pertaining to a parcel of private property not to exceed two (2) square feet in area.
(10) Identification signs at the entrance drive of residences, estates, farms, ranches and plantations which do not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
(11) One (1) non-illuminated real estate sign per street frontage, each containing a maximum of two (2) sign faces back to back, and provided as follows:
(a) Maximum sign area (per face) shall be limited to six (6) square feet in all residential districts, and twenty-four (24) square feet in all non-residential districts.
(b) Multiple listing strips, sale pending, and sold signs may be allowed when attached to a real estate sign and are subject to the same maximum area requirements.
(c) One (1) on-premise open house or open for inspection sign, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, may be allowed in addition to the above area requirements. Similar off-premise signs for directional purposes may be allowed at street intersections on other private properties with the consent of the property owner. These signs may not be erected in a public right-of-way and they must be removed when the premises are no longer open for inspection.
(d) All real estate signs shall be removed when ownership or occupancy has changed and the property is no longer for sale, rent or lease.
(12) Signs for temporary garage sales, yard sales, and the like, located in residential districts and subject to the following provisions:
(a) A maximum of 5 signs may be used for notifying the public of temporary garage sales and yard sales.
(b) Each sign shall be no more than four (4) square feet, (24"x24") and each sign shall contain the following information:
a. General statement of a 'Garage Sale' or 'Yard Sale'
b. Location of the garage or yard sale
c. Dates and time which the garage/yard sale shall be occurring
(c) Sign height is limited to three (3) feet from the ground to the highest point of the sign. Signs cannot be affixed to stop signs, street signs, utility poles, speed limit signs or any other object permanently existing In the City Right-of-way (R-O-W).
(d) Signs must be placed in the ground utilizing a pole, stake, rods, etc.
(e) Signs may be placed in the City of Kingsland street R-O-W provided they are not obstructing the view of traffic from any direction and must be at least 1 foot from the curbing of the road.
(f) Garage sales, yard sales, and the like shall be limited to operating hours of 6:00 AM - 7:00 PM on any given day.
(g) All signs from said garage/yard sale shall be removed from the locations within 24 hours from the time of the end of the sale.
(h) Any violation of this section for temporary garage sales and yard sales shall be subject to a fine of $25.00.
(13) One (1) single-sided construction sign per street frontage located on property where building is actually in progress under a current building permit. This shall be a freestanding sign not to exceed ten (10) feet in height, twelve (12) square feet, in all residential districts, thirty-two (32) square feet in all non-residential districts, and shall be set back at least twenty (20) feet from all property lines. The sign may include the names of persons and firms performing services or labor, or supplying materials to the premises. Such sign must be removed before a Certificate of Occupancy for any building or structure on the premise is issued. Construction signs shall not be erected more than thirty (30) days prior to commencement of construction.
(14) Political signs provided as follows:
(a) The sign shall not be displayed earlier than sixty (60) days prior to the primary election, general election or referendum it concerns.
(b) The sign must be removed no later than seven (7) days following the date of the primary election, general election or referendum it concerns. The owner of the property on which the sign is located and the candidate will be responsible for removing the sign.
(c) The sign shall be located entirely on private property. Signs shall not be located, in whole or in part, on any public lands or public right-of-way and shall not be attached to any sign or utility pole, rock, or any form of vegetation.
(d) The number of signs displayed shall be restricted to one (1) single faced or one double faced sign per parcel per candidate for each property line facing a public road. If a property has more than 200 feet of frontage, one sign shall be allowed per 200 feet of frontage.
(e) Signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area in all residential districts and twenty-four (24) square feet in all non-residential districts.
(f) The Director of Community Planning and Development or designated representative shall, without notice, immediately remove or cause to be removed any and all political signs in violation of this section. The removal will be at the expense of the candidate and the owner of the property on which the sign is located.
(g) All political signs must also meet corresponding sign type regulations for the zoning district in which the sign is located.
(15) Window signs which advertise promotional activities, services, and goods or products available within the building. These signs shall still be subject to the maximum sign area limitations for window signs in Table B.
(16) Signs incorporated on machinery and equipment at the manufacturer's or distributor's level, and which only identify or advertise the product or service dispensed by the machine or equipment. This includes signs customarily affixed to vending machines, newspaper racks, telephone booths and gasoline pumps.
(17) One (1) directory sign per building, which contains no commercial messages of any kind, which is attached to the building wall and limited to a maximum of twenty-four (24) square feet.
(18) Traffic control signs erected on public or private property which meet Department of Transportation standards and contain no commercial message of any kind. Signs located on private property shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
(19) Works of art which do not contain a commercial message.
(20) Signs painted on or otherwise attached to motor vehicles which are not conspicuously parked in proximity to a right-of-way and obviously not parked in such a way as to advertise any business or service to motorists or pedestrians. This may include signs for realtors, delivery trucks, lawn service, etc.
(21) Non-advertising directional signs or symbols ("entrance", "exit", or "no trespassing" etc.) located on and pertaining to a parcel of private property, none to exceed four (4) square feet in area, or a directional sign for churches, provided that such sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet and shall be within one (1) mile of said church.
(22) Historical signs or markers.
(23) Municipal signs.
(24) One (1) civic club "Welcome to Kingsland" sign per state or Federal highway entrance to City provided it contains five (5) or more civic club logos of approximately the same size, has no commercial logo or message and has a sign area not exceeding fifty (50) feet. Design must be approved.
(25) Window signs that cover less than ten (10) percent of a window.
(26) Any information sign required by State or Federal law.
(27) Signs for companies providing services to posted property limited to a maximum size of three (3) square feet for a maximum of 30 days after which no sign is allowed for that provider for at least 60 days.
(28) Signs for companies providing services to property limited to a maximum size of 1/3 square foot per sign placed within 5 feet of the primary dwelling, and limited to a maximum of five (5) signs (one per company and/or service).
120.5 Location in General.
(1) All signs shall be located on and over private property only, except those specifically permitted by this Ordinance.
(2) No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, fence, rock, tree or other form of vegetation, or any type traffic sign, sign post, signal or device.
(3) All signs shall be erected in such a manner as to not interfere with or obstruct the view of any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
(4) No sign shall be attached to or placed against a building in such a way as to prevent egress through any door or window required or designed for access to any building; nor shall any sign be attached to or obstruct a fire escape, or interfere with openings required for proper light or ventilation.
(5) All signs shall be located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and vertical clearance from all overhead utilities in accordance with National Electrical Code specifications. In no case shall any sign be installed within three (3) feet horizontally or vertically from an overhead utility line or utility guy wire.
120.6 Permitted Signs by Type and Zoning District. See "Table A"—page 130.
120.7 Maximum Size and Number.
(1) Height. Unless otherwise provided, no freestanding sign shall exceed 35 feet in height.
(2) Number. Freestanding on-premise signs shall be limited to one (1) per parcel collector or arterial street frontage.
(3) Sign Area, Single-Use Parcels. Except for the exempted signs listed in Table B, the maximum total area for all signs on each parcel shall not exceed the "Maximum Total Square Feet" listed in Table B. This includes both on-premise and off-premise signs. The maximum total area for all signs of each sign type (including the exempted signs listed in Table B) on each parcel shall be as indicated in Table B. Establishments which front or face more than one (1) collector or arterial street frontage shall be entitled to additional signage equal to one half that shown in Table B. Signage on neither street shall exceed that in Table B. If signage is established on the corner of the two (2) frontages, the signage allowance is one quarter more than shown in Table B, but only one freestanding sign structure shall be allowed.
See "Table B"—page 132
(4) Commercial/Office Centers. Building signs for each establishment shall be limited to the maximum sign areas listed in Table C. Establishments within the center which front or face more than one (1) street frontage shall not be entitled to additional sign square footage. Sign area allowances are non-transferable from one establishment to another.
See "Table C"—page 134
(5) Large Single-Use and Commercial/Office Center Developments. Developments exceeding 60,000 square feet shall have an additional freestanding signage allotment ten (10) percent for each additional 50,000 square feet of enclosed space. Individual stores exceeding 60,000 square feet within centers shall have an additional building sign allotment of ten (10) percent for each additional 50,000 square feet.
TABLE A PERMITTED SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT
EXPAND
ZONING DISTRICT
SIGN TYPE All Residential C-5 C-2 C-1
Freestanding Signs
On-premise ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Not Allowed
Off-premise ..... Not Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed Not Allowed
Building Signs (on-premise only)
Building Marker (historical) (See Note (a) ..... Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit
Canopy ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Identification (See Note (b)) ..... Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit
Incidental (See Note (c)) ..... Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit
Projecting ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Not Allowed
Home Occupation ..... Not Allowed
Mansard ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Under Canopy ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Not Allowed
Wall ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Window ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Miscellaneous Signs
Directional ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Banners (see Note (e)) ..... Allowed w/o permit Sign Permit Sign Permit Sign Permit
Flags (see Note (f)) ..... Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit Allowed w/o permit
Portable (See Note (g)) ..... Not Allowed Sign Permit Sign Permit Not Allowed
Subdivision ..... Sign Permit Not Allowed Not Allowed Sign Permit
  Please see Note (a), (b), etc.
TABLE B MAXIMUM SIGN AREA (SQUARE FEET) BY SIGN TYPE
AND ZONING DISTRICT
SINGLE USES
EXPAND
ZONING DISTRICT
SIGN TYPE All
Residential C-5 C-2 C-1
Freestanding Signs
On-premise ..... 50 125
Off-premise
Building and Miscellaneous Signs
Directional (See Note (i)) .....
Wall, Canopy, Mansard, Projecting (combined) * * *
Home Occupation .....
Under Canopy (See Note (j)) ..... 6 6
Window (which require a permit) ..... + + +
Portable ..... 32 32
MAXIMUM TOTAL SQUARE FEET, (For all of the above) ..... 100 225 62
Signs exempt from above totals:
Building Marker (historical) ..... 4 4 4 4
Flags ..... 60 60 60 60
Identification ..... 2 2 2 2
Incidental ..... 2 2 2 (See Note (k)) 2
Subdivision (See Note (h)) ..... 24 24 24
  KEY
* = For each building side, the greater of either (a) or (b) below:
(1)
Fifty (50) square feet
(2)
One (1) square foot per two linear feet of building frontage, not to exceed 250 square feet.
+ = Window signs requiring a sign permit are subject to the "Maximum Total Square Feet" requirement for each parcel. All window signs combined (permitted and exempt) shall not exceed 30% of total window surface or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
Please see Note (a), (b), etc.
TABLE C MAXIMUM SIGN AREA (SQUARE FEET) BY SIGN TYPE
AND ZONING DISTRICT
COMMERCIAL/OFFICE CENTERS
EXPAND
ZONING DISTRICT
SIGN TYPE C-1 C-2 C-5
Sign for Entire Commercial Center
Freestanding ..... 125 75
Directional (See Note (I))
Building Signs (for each establishment)
Wall, Canopy, Mansard (combined) ..... 12 * *
Window ..... + + +
Under Canopy (See Note (l)) ..... 8 6
Maximum Total Square Feet (Per establishment for all above building signs) ..... 12 183 100
Signs Exempt from above totals:
Building Marker ..... 4 4 4
Flags (See Note (f)) ..... 60 60 60
Identification (See Note (m)) ..... 2 2 2
Incidental (See Note (m)) ..... 2 2 2
  KEY TO TABLE C
* = For each store/unit front, the greater of either (a) or (b):
(a)
Fifty (50) square feet.
(b)
One (1) square foot per two (2) linear feet of unit frontage, not to exceed 250 square feet.
+ = Window signs requiring a sign permit are subject to the "Maximum Total Square Feet" requirements for each establishment. All window signs combined (permitted and exempt) shall not exceed 30% of total window surface or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
Please see Note (a), (b), etc.
_____
NOTES TO TABLES A, B AND C:
(a) May include only building name, date of construction or historical data on historic site.
(b) Only name of building and/or address of establishment allowed on sign.
(c) No commercial message of any kind allowed which is legible from any location off the parcel on which the sign is located.
(d) No commercial message allowed except advertising for services legally offered on the premises where the sign is located.
(e) Subject to special regulations for banners as described in this Ordinance.
(f) Limited to flags of the United States, Georgia, Camden County, City of Kingsland, or any other flag sanctioned by the City of Kingsland.
(g) Subject to special regulations for portable signs as described in this Ordinance.
(h) Overall height shall be limited to a maximum of eight (8) feet.
(i) These signs may be freestanding or mounted on a building or wall, and there may be more than one sign per parcel. Each sign shall be limited to a maximum of three (3) square feet. If freestanding, the sign shall be limited to a maximum of 2 ½ feet high.
(j) Maximum of one (1) under canopy sign per building entrance.
(k) Gasoline stations shall be allowed up to four (4) square feet.
(l) Maximum of one (1) under canopy sign per street frontage, per establishment.
(m) For each establishment.
(n) Plus live (5) square feet per tenant when tenant identification panels are included. The sign shall be limited to a maximum height of eight (8) feet and in no case shall the total sign area exceed fifty (50) square feet.
_____
(6) Sign Area Height Computations. The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign height:
(a) Area of Single-Faced Signs: The area shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the display shelf.
(b) Area of Multifaced Signs: The area shall be computed by adding together the area of all individual sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are placed back-to-back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than thirty-six (36) inches apart, the two faces shall be considered one sign and the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
(c) Height: The height of a freestanding shall be computed as the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the sign or sign structure, whichever is higher. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of (1) existing grade prior to construction, or (2) the newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or the grade of land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
120.8 Sign Setbacks.
(1) Unless otherwise provided, no freestanding or portable sign at its nearest point shall be closer than ten (10) feet (perpendicular line ground distance) from a street right-of-way line or property line. This setback will provide for future bicycle paths or sidewalks.
(2) All freestanding signs containing copy area between a height of three (3) feet and nine (9) feet above ground shall be located a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the intersection of two street right-of-way lines, or the intersection of a street right-of-way line with a driveway pavement edge. Sign supports in excess of two (2) feet in diameter or which cumulatively provides less than 70% visibility, shall be subject to this same setback requirement.
120.9 Special Signage Types.
(1) Portable Signs: In addition to all permitting procedures and other applicable regulations of this Ordinance, all existing and future portable signs shall comply with all of the following:
(a) Portable signs shall be limited to one per parcel and shall only be used in lieu of a permanent freestanding sign for a period not to exceed one (1) month from the date of permit issuance, or until the permanent sign is installed, whichever comes first.
(b) Portable signs shall not be erected or placed in a required parking space and must be securely tied down in accordance with the Standard Building Code.
(c) All existing portable signs shall be removed within one (1) month from the effective date of this Ordinance.
(d) If lighted, portable signs shall be internally lit, and:
Must have UL Label, or equivalent;
Electrical service must be provided from a building in accordance with all applicable electrical codes and shall be approved by the Building Official; and
Portable signs may NOT flash or blink.
(2) Banners: Banners not exceeding a cumulative total of 100 square feet may be permitted on private property for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. After the banner approval period has expired, an individual establishment may not request approval of another banner for at least three (3) months. Banners must be attached to the building structure and shall not be freestanding.
(3) Menu Signs at Drive-Through Restaurants: One (1) sign per drive-through traffic lane may be used to display menus for restaurant drive-through windows. Each sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area, eight (8) feet in height, and if illuminated, the sign must be internally lit.
(4) Subdivision Signs: Subdivision signs and any accompanying landscaping shall not be located in a public right-of-way.
(5) Animated Signs:
(a) Mechanically energized signs are allowed only in the C-4 zone subject to all other sign controls.
(b) Electrically energized movement signs are allowed in the C-2 and C-4 zones subject to all other sign controls and subject to the following conditions:
1. The animated portion of the sign will be automatically controlled by an integral light sensitive detector that will lower luminosity to not more than 0.3 foot candles (over ambient levels) as measured using a foot candle meter at a distance of 100 feet.
2. A copy of the sign manufacturer's specifications for the luminosity will be attached to the sign application.
3. Flashing will not be activated.
120.10 Landscaping. All permanent on-premise freestanding signs shall have a landscaped area at the base of the sign which is a minimum of three (3) feet wide on each side, and at least the length of the sign. The landscaping shall consist of a dense vegetative ground cover or a minimum one (1) shrub per three (3) linear feet of landscaped area on each side of the sign. Landscaped areas containing shrubs greater than three (3) feet high shall be located a minimum of twenty (20) feet from the intersection of two street right-of-way lines, or intersection of a street right-of-way line with a driveway pavement edge. Landscaped areas shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Off-premise signs shall be exempt from landscaping requirements.
120.11 Off-Premise Advertising. Unless otherwise provided, off-premise signs shall be subject to all of the following requirements in addition to all other applicable requirements of this Ordinance. Where these are in conflict, the following requirements shall apply:
(1) Off-premise advertising shall be limited to freestanding signs and shall only be allowed in the C-4 (Commercial Interchange) District.
(2) Setbacks shall be a minimum twenty (20) feet (perpendicular line ground distance) from street right-of-way lines and ten (10) feet from side or rear property lines.
(3) All off-premise signs shall be located a minimum of 1,250 feet measured as a radius from any other off-premise sign, regardless of location.
(4) Structural elements of off-premise signs which contain no sign copy, including rear sides of billboards, shall be uniform in color.
120.12 Non-Conforming Signs.
(1) Repairs and Maintenance: Any legal non-conforming sign may be repaired or restored to its original condition, subject to the following:
a. The cost of repairs or the restoration does not cumulatively exceed 50% of its total replacement cost. Accumulation shall begin with the effective date of this Ordinance.
b. The repairs or restoration do not involve any change from its original permanent copy.
c. The repairs or restoration remain subject to all other applicable regulations.
(2) Compliance for Single Use Parcels: All legal non-conforming on-premise signs located on a single use parcel shall be removed or altered to conform with all existing sign regulations upon any of the following:
a. The issuance of a sign permit for any new additional sign, or changes to an existing sign which result in an increase to the sign's total copy area.
b. The issuance of a sign permit for changes in permanent sign copy to an existing on-premise sign, which exceeds the 50% cumulative total of sign areas for all legally existing on-premise signs normally requiring a permit under this Ordinance. Accumulation shall begin with the effective date of this Ordinance.
(3) Compliance for Commercial/Office Center: Legal non-conforming signs located in commercial/office centers shall be removed or altered to conform with all existing sign regulations in the event the following occur:
a. For non-conforming freestanding signs, the issuance of a sign permit for a new freestanding sign.
b. For non-conforming building signs for a particular establishment, the issuance of any sign permit for that particular establishment, excluding repairs and maintenance.
120.13 Special District Regulations.
120.13.1 HISTORIC DISTRICT - removed
120.13.2 C-4 (INTERCHANGE COMMERCIAL), C-ED (ENTERTAINMENT) AND C-PLMU DISTRICTS. The following signs only shall be permitted in the C-4 and C-ED Districts.
(1) Permitted Sign Types:
a. Non-projecting wall signs and roof signs.
b. Ground signs including any independently supported sign structure not otherwise classified herein.
c. Outdoor Advertising Signs (Billboard) as herein restricted.
(2) Number, Size, Location, and Height Restrictions: Signs on walls of building (including signs attached flat against walls, painted wall signs, and project signs as herein provided) shall meet the following requirements:
a. Wall Signs: Wall signs on front surface of buildings: The total sign face area shall not exceed 25% of the total building frontage area.
Wall signs attached flat against a wall may extend not more than 24 inches from a corner. Signs attached at an angle may extend outward from the wall not more than 5 feet.
b. Roof Signs: Not more than one (1) roof sign structure may be erected on the roof of any one building. No roof sign may extend more than 25 feet from the elevation of the roof.
Roof signs shall have a total sign face area not to exceed that provided for wall signs in sub-paragraph a above.
c. Ground Signs:
(i) Non-illuminated Construction Signs and Temporary Subdivision Signs are restricted to 40 square feet in area and to 20 feet in height.
(ii) Construction Signs displaying name of building, contractor, architects, engineers, owners, finance agencies, developers, etc., are permitted but must be removed from site within 30 days of project completion.
(iii) Temporary Subdivision Signs announcing a land subdivision development are permitted if located on premises of land being subdivided. Such sign shall not be spaced less than 300 feet apart and shall be removed when 75% of the lots are conveyed.
(iv) Private Directional Signs indicating the location and direction of premises available, but not erected on such premises and having inscribed thereon the name of owner, developer, building or agent, are permitted provided:
The size of such sign is not in excess of 6 square feet and not exceeding 4 feet in length.
Not more than one such sign is erected on each 1.250 feet of right-of-way frontage.
The height of such sign is not in excess of 6 feet.
Proof of Permission from owner of location (if applicable).
(v) For Ground Signs 20 feet or less in height, the sign area is not to exceed 40 square feet for each sign face nor a total aggregate surface area of 80 square feet. If there are visibility obstructions, this allocation can be raised up to 39 feet in height.
(vi) One Ground Sign between 21 feet and 150 feet shall be permitted per principal use and not to exceed the areas as tabulated below:
Between 21 feet and 39 in height shall not exceed a total aggregate sign face area of 100 square feet.
Between 40 feet and 150 feet in height shall not exceed a total aggregate sign face area of 500 square feet.
Note: Back-to-back/double faced signs shall compute square footage by measuring one side of the display face only.
d. Illuminated Signs: Illuminated devices shall be so placed and so shielded that light from the sign itself will not be directly cast into any residential district, sleeping rooms in any district or the eyes of a vehicle driver.
120.14 Outdoor Advertising Signs.
(1) Outdoor Advertising Signs (Billboards—I-95 Only):
a. This Ordinance shall apply to all outdoor advertising signs abutting or visible from Interstate 95 right-of-way in the City of Kingsland. Georgia.
b. No sign shall be erected or maintained unless it is in compliance with the regulations of this Ordinance.
c. Signs must be constructed of durable materials, maintained in good condition, and not permitted to become dilapidated.
d. All signs located on sites abutting or visible from Interstate 95 right-of-way shall conform with Official Georgia Code Annotated, Section 32-6-70 seq. (The Georgia Outdoor Advertising) and shall meet all Federal and State requirements necessary to obtain a permit under said code.
e. Any sign which advertises an activity, business, product or service which has ceased operation or production shall be removed within six (6) months of the discontinuance of said activity.
(2) Outdoor Advertising Signs shall meet the following requirements (I-95 only):
a. Maximum Size. The maximum size of the sign shall be 600 square feet and the maximum outside measurements of all such signs shall be thirty (30) feet in height and fifty (50) feet in length, with or without trim.
b. Minimum Size. The minimum size of the sign shall be 500 square feet.
c. Illumination. All illuminated signs shall be use base mounted fluorescent or mercury vapor lights and shall be activated by photo-electric cells. Additional lighting, including but not limited to neon, animation and running lights, is prohibited except for internal lighted and LED displays that comply with Georgia DOT regulations.
d. Height Above Interstate Grade. All signs shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet above adjacent interstate pavement measuring from the lower portion of the sign face. Signs shall not exceed seventy (70) feet in height. Two signs in the same location (back-to-back) of "V" formation shall be the same height above the interstate's surface.
e. Extrusions Prohibited. Extrusions beyond the face of the sign, excluding aprons, are prohibited.
f. Number of Signs Per Location. Only one sign shall be allowed to face the same direction per location. This allows back-to-back or "V" formation signs but prohibits two signs (side-by-side) facing the same direction.
g. Spacing. Sign locations shall be no less than five hundred (500) feet apart measuring from the two closest points.
h. Sign Structures. The support column of the outdoor advertising structure must be located at a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from any property right-of-way line. The sign face must be located a minimum of ten (10) feet from any property right-of-way line.
i. Allow Three (3) Outdoor Advertising Signs Per Quadrant of an Interchange Adjacent to the Interstate Highway. These signs must be within a commercial or industrially zoned area as specified in State Law and are restricted to an area 1,200 feet long beginning 500 feet from the point where the pavement widens on the main traveled way to accommodate the longest entrance or exit ramp.
j. Marsh and Historic Area Locations Prohibited. No sign shall be placed in or obstruct the view of a marshlands area or an area of designated historic interest.
k. Advertisement Limitations. Outdoor advertising shall be limited to the following:
Travel Service facilities, including lodging, gas, food and camping.
Areas of scenic beauty.
Public attractions, including historic, natural, scientific or recreational amenities; and
Any combination of the above listed facilities. Further, the content of all advertising shall be directional in nature.
l. On premise signs located within 100 feet of a regularly used part of the activity being advertised and located on the same property and for sale or for lease signs located on the property being advertised would not be prohibited.
m. Any legally erected existing sign which would become non-conforming as a result of this Ordinance would be allowed to remain, provided that the sign owner meets the requirements of State Laws and rules and regulations governing non-conforming signs.
n. Nothing contained in this is intended or should be interpreted to request the removal of any existing legally erected sign.
o. If a legally placed outdoor advertising structure is subjected to more than fifty (50) percent destruction, it may be replaced as long as the face area complies with the 600 square foot sign area.
120.15 For Outdoor Advertising Within All Districts Where Such Signs Are a Permitted Use. These following general requirements shall be met, unless restricted by a district requirement previously specified:
1. The support column for outdoor advertising signs shall be set back a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet and a sign face shall be set back a minimum of ten (10) feet from the established right-of-way lines of streets or other transportation or utility right-of-way.
2. No outdoor advertising sign shall be located within 750 feet of another such sign as measured between the two closest points.
3. Maximum sign area shall not exceed 300 square feet facing in any one direction.
4. Maximum height shall not exceed 40 feet above adjacent street grade.
5. No outdoor advertising shall be located within 500 feet of the property line of public schools, cemeteries, public parks, playgrounds or recreation areas, scenic areas or public buildings used primarily as places of public assembly. With respect to public schools, the 500 foot distance shall be measured from the school building or parking area, but in no event shall the sign be located nearer then 200 feet of the property line of the public school.
6. No outdoor advertising structure shall be located within 100 feet of any property line of residential district on the same right-of-way.
7. No outdoor advertising structure shall be located within 100 feet of any property line of a residential structure used for residential purposes, except an outdoor advertising sign may be located nearer than 100 feet to a residential structure with written consent of the property owner.
8. Any legally erected existing sign which would become non-conforming as a result of this Ordinance would be allowed to remain, provided that the sign owner meets the requirements of State Laws, Rules and Regulations governing non-conforming signs.
9. Nothing contained in this is intended or should be interpreted to request the removal of any existing legally erected sign.
10. If a legally placed outdoor advertising structure is subjected to more than fifty (50) percent destruction, it may be replaced as long as the face area complies with the 300 square foot sign area.
11. If a non-conforming sign West of Interstate 95 on State Route 40 is subjected to fifty (50) percent destruction, it shall not be replaced. If a conforming sign located within the same area is subjected to more than fifty (50) percent destruction, it may be replaced with the sign area not to exceed 300 square feet.
120.16. Application Requirements for Outdoor Advertising Signs.
(1) The Director of Community Planning and Development will issue permits for signs meeting the size, height and spacing requirements of this section. Variances shall not be granted for outdoor advertising signs.
(2) Application for construction or erections of outdoor advertising signs shall contain the following information:
a. Name, address and telephone number of sign erector and the sign owner.
b. A sketch showing the dimensions of the proposed outdoor advertising sign and the position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings or structures and the nearby streets, along with a photograph of the proposed sign location.
c. Plans and specifications and structural details of construction on the ground shall be furnished. A single submission may be permitted for standardized signs. All signs must conform to the standards of the Standard Building Code and other codes that may be applicable.
d. Any electrical permit required for electrical hook-up for sign must be obtained.
e. A permit fee shall be due with each application for a permit. Permit shall be valid for 60 days. If construction or installation is not under way within 60 days of issue, the permit shall be void and the fee forfeited. If such application must also receive State Department of Transportation permit, said 60 day period shall begin from the date of said D.O.T. permit issue.
f. Permits for outdoor advertising signs will not be issued for any areas within the City Limits of Kingsland along Kings Bay Road.
(Ord. No. 2014-05, 9-22-2014; Ord. No. 2017-09 , 10-23-2017)
