ARTICLE XXV. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 250. - Conflict with other laws.
Wherever the requirements of this Ordinance are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing higher standards, shall govern.
Sec. 251. - Validity.
Each phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or other provision of this Ordinance is separable from all other such phrases, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and other provisions. Should any phrase, sentence, paragraph, section or provision of this Ordinance be declared by the Courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such declaration shall not effect any other portion or provision of this Ordinance.
Sec. 252. - Repealed resolution and ordinances.
This is a comprehensive enactment of a plan of zoning and regulation of subdivisions, and all prior zoning ordinances, and/or subdivision regulations, are hereby superceded and repealed.
Sec. 253. - Coordination with federal law.
Whenever the Governing Authority finds that the application of this Ordinance would unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services or prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, a conditional use permit waiving any or all of the provisions of this Ordinance may be granted.
Sec. 254. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the [validly] of the remaining portions hereof.
Sec. 255. - Repeal of laws in conflict.
This ordinance supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
Sec. 256. - Effective date.
This ordinance shall take immediately upon adoption.
256.1. Permit Penalties Any individual/corporation beginning a project, being the construction/addition of a building, installation of a sign, electrical, plumbing, or HVAC work prior to receiving a permit will be charge double the amount of the original price to obtain the proper permit.
