ARTICLE X. - EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS

Sec. 100. - Height limits.
Chimneys, water, fire, radio, and television towers, church spires, domes, cupolas, stage towers and scenery lofts, cooling towers, roof signs, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, flag poles, parapet walls, sills, granaries, windmills, and similar structures and their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected above the height limits herein established.
Sec. 101. - Yard requirements.
Yard requirements shall be modified subject to the following conditions:
101.1. On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on each street.
101.2. Whenever a rear property line of a lot abuts upon an alley one-half (½) of the alley width shall be considered as a portion of the required rear yard.
101.3. An unroofed porch shall project into a required front yard for a distance not exceeding ten (10) feet.
101.4. The front and side yard requirements may be waived where dwellings occupy space above commercial uses upon approval of the Planning Commission.
Sec. 102. - Access to public streets.
Access to public streets shall be maintained in accordance to the following requirements:
102.1. Each principal use shall be located on a lot or parcel which provides frontage on a public street having a right-of-way of not less than thirty (30) feet.
102.2. Any additional dwelling shall have access to a public street by means of a passageway open to the sky at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
Sec. 103. - Lots of record.
Where the owner of a lot of record or his successor to the title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him to conform to the dimensional requirements of this Ordinance, the following exceptions may be allowed:
103.1. Land Use. Where a lot, tract or parcel of land is an area or width that does not conform to the requirements of the district in which it is located, the lot may be used for a single-family dwelling in the Residential Districts (R-1, R-2, R-3). A two family dwelling may be constructed in an R-2 or R-3 Residential District provided the lot to be used has a minimum area of 5,000 square feet and a minimum lot width at the building line of fifty (50) feet and provided that it is connected to a public sewer.
103.2. Replatting. When two or more adjoining and vacant lots with continuous frontage are in a single ownership at the time of application and such lots have a frontage or lot area less than is required by the use district in which they are located, such lots shall be platted or reparcelled so as to create one or more lots which conform to the minimum frontage and area requirements of the use district.
103.3. Improvements. Buildings or structures located on sub-standard lots of record may be improved only when the addition of adequate plumbing is required by the laws and ordinances of the Council, provided that the yard requirements in Section 90 are adhered to.
103.4. Side Yard Requirements. The side yard requirements for substandard lots of record may be improved only when the addition of adequate plumbing is required by the laws and ordinances of the Council, provided that the yard requirements in Section 70 are adhered to.
103.5. Expansion of Existing Dwelling on Sub-Standard Lots of Record. Where a residential lot is an area or width that does not conform to the requirements of the district in which it is located, and said lot has an existing dwelling, said dwelling may be improved or expanded provided the following requirements are met:
(1) Proposed improvements or expansions comply with current setback requirements.
(2) Total lot coverage, including proposed improvements or expansions, do not exceed current allowable maximum coverage.
Sec. 104. - Front and side yard setbacks for dwellings.
The setback requirements of this Ordinance for side yards on corner lots and/or front yards shall not apply to any lot where the average setback on developed lots located, wholly or in part, 100 feet on each side of such lot and within the same block and zoning district and fronting on the same streets as such lot, is less than the minimum required setback. In such cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the existing developed lots.
Sec. 105. - Zero side yard setback.
Upon review and approval by the Director of Community Planning and Development, the side yard setback requirement for single-family dwelling lots may be reduced to allow a zero side yard setback on one side of a lot providing the following conditions are met:
105.1. Any reduction in one yard requirement shall result in a corresponding increase in the side yard requirement for the opposite side yard. In this manner the overall side yard requirement of the district shall be met.
105.2. Front yard, rear yard and corner side yard requirements of the district shall not be modified.
105.3. Side yard setback requirements shall not be modified for an individual lot unless it is part of a block in which each lot's side yard setback is to be modified. The arrangement of modified side yard requirements shall allow for an open yard area between each dwelling unit.
105.4. The developer of a subdivision for which modifications to the side yard setback requirements are requested shall furnish to the Director of Community Planning and Development a copy of proposed deed restrictions, conditions, or covenants. Such covenants shall include at a minimum, provisions for:
(1) A maintenance easement which will allow for the maintenance of exterior dwelling walls facing a zero setback line.
(2) A requirement that dwelling walls facing a zero setback be windowless.
Sec. 106. - Additional dwellings on a single lot.
The Director of Community Planning and Development, after a review of an application and public hearing thereon, may grant a special exception to permit one additional single-family dwelling on the same lot or parcel of land as that of the main dwelling provided that:
106.1. Each additional dwelling conforms to the minimum lot area, minimum width and maximum lot coverage requirements for such dwellings as set forth in Section 70, and conforms to the setback requirements as set forth in Section 70.
106.2. The arrangement of such additional dwellings are in such a manner that if the lot or parcel of land is ever subdivided, no nonconforming lots or nonconforming buildings are created; and
106.3. Each additional dwelling has access to a public street by means of an unobstructed passageway of at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
Sec. 107. - Animals in a residential district.
Animals may be kept in the residential districts subject to the district regulations and the following conditions:
107.1. The minimum lot area upon which a horse or pony may be kept in a R-1, R-2 and R-6 district is three (3) acres for the first horse or pony and one-half (½) acre for each additional horse or pony.
107.2. The minimum lot area upon which fowl may be kept is one-half (½) acre. The maximum number of fowl that may be kept for one-half (½) acre is two (2). For each additional one-half (½) acre an additional two (2) fowl may be kept. Fowl may not be allowed to range freely.
107.3. A maximum number of eight (8) dogs or cats in any combination may be kept in a residential district if the lot is larger than one-half (½) acre. Otherwise only four (4) dogs or cats in any combination may be kept.
(Amend. of 7-23-2007; Amend. of 7-26-2010)
Sec. 108. - Addressing and street naming.
108.1. Purpose of article. The purpose of this article is to establish a procedure for the assignment or reassignment of address numbers and street names for property in Camden County.
The policies and procedure utilized to assign or change address numbers shall be detailed in the Addressing and Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual (section 108-4:4).
108.2. Scope of article. The scope of this article shall include the assignment or reassignment of all official address numbers and street names, after first complying with the provision of O.C.G.A. § 32-4, if applicable, to residential, nonresidential and other property according to the Addressing and Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual, within the county inclusive of the corporate limits of the Cities of Kingsland, St. Marys and Woodbine, including assignment of sub-addresses.
108.3. Addressing council. The addressing council shall be responsible for developing and amending policies and procedures contained within the Addressing and Street Naming Policies Manual. Resolutions shall be discussed by the members of the council. These resolutions must be recognized by an absolute majority.
The addressing council will be made up of ten members representing the following entities:
• Camden County (including addressing coordinator (chairperson)) (2).
• City of Kingsland (2).
• City of St. Marys (2).
• Woodbine (1).
• 911/Emergency Response (1 from each jurisdiction).
108.4. Role of the addressing coordinator. The addressing coordinator role, housed within the department of planning and community development, shall be responsible for the final approval and notification of all new street names, after first complying with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 32-4, if applicable, and address information. The addressing coordinator shall also be responsible for facilitating changes to existing street names and address numbers and subaddresses. Primary duties are listed below and also includes those in the Addressing and Street Naming Policies and Procedures Manual.
(a)
Code enforcement officer shall have the authority to pursue enforcement of this article following written notice to the property owner or occupant in control of the property from the code enforcement officer. The property owner of the property shall have five days from the date of written notice to correct the deficiencies listed therein.
If the individual who received notice does not correct such deficiencies, the code enforcement officer shall have authority to secure injunctions and abatement orders to insure compliance through the applicable municipal/magistrate court.
(b)
Criminal enforcement. Any person who violates this article or any provisions thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500.00.
(c)
Civil enforcement. In addition to criminal penalties, any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100.00, which can be recovered by the county in a civil action in the nature of a debt, if the offender does not pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time after being cited for violation of this article. No civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation by the code enforcement officer. Failure to correct the violation within five days of the date of service of the notice, or by the end of the period of any extension, may result in the assessment of a civil penalty or other enforcement action. For good cause determined by the code enforcement officer, the correction period may be extended by the code enforcement officer. Each day of continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(d)
Referral to attorneys. If payment of penalties is not received within five days after written demand for payment is made, the code enforcement officer may refer the matter to the city/county's attorney, who is authorized to institute a civil action in the name of the city/county in the applicable municipal/magistrate court for recovery of the penalty.
(e)
Other relief. The city/county's attorney may secure, on behalf of the governing body, in addition to other remedies provided by law, injunctions, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate relief to prevent, enjoin, abate or address such unlawful action.
(Ord. No. 2017-14 , 8-14-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-14 , adopted August 14, 2017, repealed the former § 108 and enacted a new § 108 as set out herein. The former pertained to similar subject matter and derived from the original code.
