Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Kingsland, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise:
Bond. When a bond is required by law, an undertaking in writing, without seal, is sufficient; in all bonds where the names of the obligors do not appear in the bond, but are subscribed thereto, they shall be bound thereby.
Charter. The word "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Kingsland, Georgia.
City. The word "city" means the City of Kingsland, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Kingsland, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours as prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Corporate limits. The term "corporate limits" means the corporate limits of the City of Kingsland.
Council; city council. The term "council" or "city council" means the mayor and city council of Kingsland, Georgia.
County. The term "county," "the county" or "this county" means Camden County, Georgia.
Court. The word "court" means the court provided by law for the punishment of offenders against the laws or ordinances of the city, whether the court shall be the court now constituted or a court hereafter established pursuant to law.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or an official of the city to do some act or perform some function, it shall be construed to authorize the head of such department or the official to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required function, unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter.
Governor. The word "governor" means the governor of the State of Georgia.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
Land development ordinance. The term "land development ordinance" means the ordinance compiled and published by the city establishing zoning districts and regulating the uses of land therein, specifying offstreet parking and loading requirements, adopting general zoning regulations, describing zoning rules and regulations in such districts, defining such districts, providing for rezoning and redistricting, establishing certain building and zoning regulations in each of such districts, regulating land uses and accessory uses, prescribing the percentage of land area which may be occupied under varying circumstances, providing for variances and nonconforming uses, establishing a planning commission, providing for the subdivision of land, adopting general subdivision regulations, defining certain terms therein used, providing a method of administration and practice and procedure, providing penalties for violation and providing remedies for enforcement thereof. The state edition of all standard codes as adopted by the city council on September 23, 1991, and the subdivision regulations as prepared by the city department of community planning and development are incorporated by reference.
Legislative intent. In all interpretations of this Code or of ordinances or resolutions, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in mind at all times the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate any provision, and a transposition of words and phrases may be resorted to when a clause or sentence is without meaning as it stands.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers, departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Kingsland" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. The ordinary significance shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, in which case they shall have the significance attached to them by experts in such trade, or with reference to such subject matter.
Number. The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly excluded.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words "swear" and "sworn."
Officer. The word "officer" includes those officials appointed by the city council on a parttime or temporary basis, including the city attorney and municipal court judge.
Or; and. The word "or" may be read as "and," and the word "and" may be read as "or," if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," when applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, corporations and bodies politic, or any combination thereof, as well as to natural persons.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding; following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively, unless the context requires a different significance.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Requirements. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than another more general provision, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed controlling.
Residence. The word "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The word "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utilities and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the city council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Shall; may. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means that portion of the street right-of-way which is improved and designated for the use of pedestrians.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The term "state," "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statutory references. Whenever reference is made, for example, to O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, it shall be construed to refer to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, § 1-3-3, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
Street. The word "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or any other name by which a street is commonly known, or any public place and the approaches thereto within the city when any part thereof is open to the use of the public and established for purposes of vehicular traffic.
Substantial compliance. A substantial compliance with any requirement of this Code or ordinances amendatory of the Code, especially on the part of public officers, shall be deemed and held sufficient; and no proceeding shall be declared void for want of such compliance, unless expressly so provided.
Tenant; occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Title of offices. The title of any office shall be construed to include the words "of the City of Kingsland, Georgia."
Writing; written. The word "writing" or "written" includes printing and all numerals, and also pictures, illustrations and printed or written designs.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or any part of the section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after the sections of this Code and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any zoning ordinance;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
(16)
The city's land development ordinance as defined in section 1-2;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Cross reference— Administration, Ch. 2; officers and employees, § 2-66 et seq.; franchises, Ch. 10; streets and sidewalks, Ch. 19; taxation and revenue, Ch. 20.
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or matter covered under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in the Code. In the case of the repeal of chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code of Ordinances by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Kingsland, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section, not heretofore existing in the Code, is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Kingsland, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (division, article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section (division, article or chapter) reads as follows: …." The new section, division, article or chapter shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, divisions, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, division, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code; and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code is declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of an act is required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, and by imprisonment in the city or county jail for a period not to exceed 180 days. Any one or more of these punishments may be inflicted, and the fines imposed therefor may be collected by execution. Each day any violation continues shall be a separate offense.
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15.
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to confine persons convicted of violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; punishments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
