Chapter 21 - TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— A traffic schedule, compiled and published by the city, is on file in the city clerk's office where it is available for reference and review. The traffic schedule provides for the following:
(1) Designates the location of traffic control devices;
(2) Designates areas or zones where regulations are applied to parking, loading, bus stops or taxicab stands;
(3) Establishes speed limits;
(4) Restricts or regulates traffic at certain times on certain streets or to certain types, weights or sizes of vehicles;
(5) Designates the location of through streets, stop intersections, yield-right-of-way intersections, waiting lanes, one-way streets or truck traffic routes; and
(6) Establishes regulations upon vehicle turns at designated locations.
Cross reference— Emergency management, Ch. 7; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15; mobile homes, Ch. 12; vehicles for hire, Ch. 23.
State Law reference— Authority to provide devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(4); Uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372; prosecution of traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-1 to 40-6-395, known as the Uniform Rules of the Road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1, are hereby adopted as and for the traffic regulations of the city, with like effect as if recited in this section.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-12.
(Ord. of 10-30-74)
ARTICLE II. - REGULATION OF LOW SPEED MOTOR VEHICLES (LSMV) AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS

Sec. 21-2. - Short title.
This section shall be known as the "Kingsland Low Speed Motor Vehicle Ordinance."
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-3. - Definitions.
All-terrain vehicle means any motorized vehicle designed for off-road use which is equipped with three or more low pressure tires and with a seat to be straddled by the operator and with handlebars for steering control.
Driver S license means any license to operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of the State of Georgia or any other state.
Low speed motor vehicle (LSMV) means those electric and gasoline-powered pleasure carts, commonly called "golf carts" which when operated, are incapable of being operated at speeds in excess of 20 miles per hour and have at least three or more wheels. Low speed motor vehicle shall also mean any four-wheeled electric vehicle whose top speed attainable in one mile is greater than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour on a paved level surface and which is manufactured in compliance with those federal motor vehicle safety standards for low- speed vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. Section 571 .500 and in effect January 1, 200 1.
Operator means any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
Owner means a person, other than a lienholder or security interest holder, having the property in or title to a vehicle. The term includes a person entitled to the use and possession of a vehicle subject to a security interest in or lien by another person but excludes a lessee under a lease not intended as a security except as otherwise specifically provided in this title.
Private road or driveway means every way or place in private ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines of a railway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
Street means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-4. - License required.
Those persons who are 15 years of age, but not yet 16 years of age may drive a LSMV on the streets and those areas accessible by the public for vehicular traffic of the city provided he or she has in his or her possession a valid instructional permit issued by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-5-4, as may be amended, and has not had his or her instructional permit suspended or revoked, and if he or she shall is accompanied in the front seat by a person at least 18 years of age who holds a valid motor vehicle driver's license.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-5. - Operation regulations.
(a)
All operators of LSMV's shall abide by all traffic regulations applicable to vehicular trafiic when using the streets and those areas accessible by the public for vehicular traffic in the city.
(b)
LSMV's shall not be operated on sidewalks at any time.
(c)
LSMV's may be operated over those streets and those areas accessible by the public for vehicular traffic only during daylight hours unless such motorized carts are equipped with functional headlights, tail lights, and brake lights.
(d)
LSMV's shall not be operated two or more abreast in a single traffic lane.
(e)
LSMV's shall be operated only on any highway or streets where the posted speed limit does not exceed 25 miles per hour. The operator of an LSMV shall not operate such vehicle on any street or highway where the posted speed limit exceeds 25 miles per hour.
(f)
The operator driving LSMV's shall not engage in hazardous activities on the highway or streets and those areas accessible by the public for vehicular traffic. Such hazardous activities, and the special rules pertaining to them, include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
Racing of LSMV in any form, except for special events approved by the city; and
(2)
Blocking of highway or streets and public access, for vehicular traffic, except for special events approved by the city.
(g)
All laws and ordinances relative to alcohol and its use, including open container laws, which apply to traffic on the streets of the city, also apply to operators of LSMV's.
(h)
All operators and passengers must remain seated at all times during the operation of the LSMV. No person may sit on the operator's lap during the operation of the LSMV.
(i)
Before any LSMV may be operated upon city streets or public areas of the city, it shall have installed thereon:
(1)
An emblem as required by O.C.G.A. § 40-8-4. The emblem shall be in a bright and conspicuous retro-reflective red-orange paint. Such emblem shall be mounted on the rear of such vehicles, in the approximate horizontal geometric center of the vehicle, at the height of three feet to five feet above the roadway, and shall be maintained at all times in a clean and reflective condition.
(2)
An amber strobe light as required by O.C.G.A. § 40-8-35. The light must be functional at all times the vehicle is in operation, and shall be visible within 500 feet from the front and rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-6. - Exemption.
The provision of section 21-6 entitled "operating regulations" shall not apply to private streets or cart paths in subdivisions designed as golf course communities if such exemption is requested by the developer of such community or a homeowners association in writing and approved by the mayor.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-7. - All-terrain vehicle.
All-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on any street or highway, sidewalk within the city.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
Sec. 21-8. - Penalties.
Any violation by an operator of a LSMV shall be charged against the operator according to the provisions of O.C.G.A. Title 40 and this article.
(Ord. No. 2007-08, 4-9-2007)
