Chapter 19 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city saved from repeal, § 1-4(6); any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city saved from repeal, § 1-4(15); buildings and building regulations, Ch. 5; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, Ch. 15; solid waste management, Ch. 18; vehicles for hire, Ch. 23.
State Law reference— Authority to construct and maintain streets and roads, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; power of city to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; executions for collection of assessments for paving streets and laying sewers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 19-1. - Obstructions by storage of merchandise, etc., prohibited.
No person shall use any sidewalk, street, alley or public place for the storage of personal property, goods, wares or merchandise of any kind; nor shall any person place or cause to be placed in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley or public place any barrel, box, crate, package or other obstruction of any kind, or permit the same to remain thereon longer than is necessary to convey such article to or from the premises abutting on such sidewalk.
(Ord. No. 2016-01 , 2-22-2016)
Sec. 19-2. - Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for:
(1)
Displaying such vehicle for sale.
(2)
Washing, greasing, storing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by a sudden emergency, and in such emergency such vehicle shall be moved or towed away with all due haste.
(3)
For displaying advertising.
(Ord. No. 2016-01 , 2-22-2016)
Sec. 19-3. - Continuous parking in same location.
Any vehicle that shall remain parked continuously in the same location on any street in the city for the period of 72 hours or more shall be presumed to be abandoned and may be impounded by the police department.
(Ord. No. 2016-01 , 2-22-2016)
Secs. 19-4—19-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PARADES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Preventing or disrupting lawful procession, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-34; operation of motorcycles and motor vehicles in parades, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-7; funeral processions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-76.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 19-26. - Title of article.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Parade Ordinance of the City of Kingsland.
(Code 1968, § 10-301)
Sec. 19-27. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Parade means any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park or other public place in the city, whether on foot, mounted or in vehicles.
Parade permit means the permit required by this article.
(Code 1968, § 10-302)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 19-28. - Exceptions to article.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)
Funeral processions.
(2)
Students going to and from school classes or participating in educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction and supervision of the proper school authorities.
(3)
A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Code 1968, § 10-303(1))
Sec. 19-29. - Penalty for violation of article.
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall be charged with such violation and tried in mayor's court, and, upon being found guilty, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the city.
(Code 1968, § 10-314)
Sec. 19-30. - Enforcement of article.
It shall be the duty of the police department to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Code 1968, § 10-317)
Sec. 19-31. - Interference with parade.
No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used in a parade.
(Code 1968, § 10-312(1))
Sec. 19-32. - Driving through parade.
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons composing a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
(Code 1968, § 10-312(2))
Sec. 19-33. - Parking on parade route.
The chief of police shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The chief of police shall post signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on an unposted street in violation of this section.
(Code 1968, § 10-312(3))
Secs. 19-34—19-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 19-51. - Required.
No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the chief of police or the city council as provided in this division.
(Code 1968, § 10-303)
Sec. 19-52. - Application.
A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with the chief of police on forms provided by such officer.
(1)
Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the chief of police not less than seven days nor more than 30 days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade.
(2)
Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following information:
a.
The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to conduct such parade.
b.
If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such organization.
c.
The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct.
d.
The date when the parade is to be conducted.
e.
The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination point.
f.
The approximate number of persons who and animals and vehicles which will constitute such parade, and the type of animals and a description of the vehicles.
g.
The hours when such parade will start and terminate.
h.
A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed.
i.
The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade.
j.
The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any such assembly areas.
k.
The interval of space to be maintained between units of such parade.
l.
Any additional information which the chief of police shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
If the parade is designed to be held by, on behalf of or for any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with the chief of police a communication in writing from the person proposing to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his behalf.
(3)
Late applications. The chief of police, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have the authority to consider any application under this section which is filed less than seven days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted.
(4)
Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing the application for a parade permit a fee as set out in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Code 1968, § 10-304)
Sec. 19-53. - Standards for issuance.
The chief of police shall issue a permit as provided for under this division when, from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may be otherwise obtained, he finds that:
(1)
The conduct of the parade will not substantially interfere with the safe and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
(2)
The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the city.
(3)
The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
(4)
The conduct of such parade will not interfere with the movement of firefighting equipment en route to a fire.
(5)
The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or to create a disturbance.
(6)
The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(7)
The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any product, goods or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private profit.
(Code 1968, § 10-305)
Sec. 19-54. - Notice of denial.
The chief of police shall act upon the application for a parade permit within three days after the filing thereof. If the chief of police disapproves the application, he shall mail to the applicant, within three days after the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his action, stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
(Code 1968, § 10-306)
Sec. 19-55. - Appeal of denial.
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade permit to the city council. The appeal shall be taken within four days after notice. The city council shall act upon the appeal within ten days after its receipt, by special meeting if a regular meeting is not to be held within ten days from the date of such appeal.
(Code 1968, § 10-307)
Sec. 19-56. - Alternate permit.
The chief of police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of a parade on a date, at a time or over a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within four days after notice of the action of the chief of police, file a written notice of acceptance with the chief of police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this article.
(Code 1968, § 10-308)
Sec. 19-57. - Notice to city officials of issuance of permit.
Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the chief of police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
(1)
The mayor.
(2)
The mayor pro tempore.
(3)
The city attorney.
(4)
The fire chief.
(Code 1968, § 10-309)
Sec. 19-58. - Contents.
Each parade permit shall state the following information:
(1)
Starting time.
(2)
Minimum speed.
(3)
Maximum speed.
(4)
Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the parade.
(5)
The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by the parade.
(6)
The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof.
(7)
Such other information as the chief of police shall find necessary to the enforcement of this article.
(Code 1968, § 10-310)
Sec. 19-59. - Duties of permittee; possession of permit during parade.
(a)
A permittee under this division shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
(b)
The parade chairman or other person heading or leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his person during the conduct of the parade.
(Code 1968, § 10-311)
Sec. 19-60. - Revocation.
The chief of police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued under this division upon application of the standards for issuance as set forth in this division.
(Code 1968, § 10-313)
