ARTICLE V. - CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Renumbered from Art. IV by Ord. No. 2015-13, § 2, adopted Oct. 1, 2015.

Sec. 22-31. - Permit.
(a)
Required. Any person desiring to solicit or canvass upon the public streets, areas or parks, or call from house to house in the city for the purpose of raising funds or seeking donations for any religious, charitable or eleemosynary organization shall register with, and obtain a written permit from, the city business license department.
(b)
Application. Any person desiring a permit to solicit or canvass upon the public streets, areas or parks, or call from house to house in the city shall file, on a form to be supplied by the city business license department, an application stating the following:
(1)
Name of the applicant.
(2)
Permanent home address of the applicant.
(3)
Social security number of the applicant.
(4)
Name and address of the employer, firm, corporation or organization represented by the applicant.
(5)
Names and addresses of all persons assisting in the soliciting, canvassing or calling from house to house in the city.
(6)
The nature of any merchandise, wares, goods or any similar items to be sold, offered for sale or given away in conjunction with the soliciting, canvassing or calling from house to house in the city.
(c)
Proof of tax-exempt status. When the applicant for a charitable solicitations permit registers with the city business license department, proof of tax-exempt status shall be required. No organization shall be considered a nonprofit organization within the meaning of this subsection except a tax-exempt organization within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code or the state income tax law as such code, as amended.
(d)
Issuance; identity cards. Upon proper registration with the city business license department, a written permit for charitable solicitations shall be issued, which shall be valid for a period of 30 days from the date of issuance. In addition, identity cards shall be issued which must be carried by all persons while engaged in soliciting or canvassing upon the public streets, areas or parks, or calling from house to house in the city.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-32. - Regulations.
Soliciting or canvassing upon the public streets, areas or parks, or calling from house to house in the city shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
All soliciting or canvassing upon the public streets, areas or parks, or calling from house to house in the city shall only occur between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday—Saturday, and 1:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(2)
The number of solicitors, canvassers or callers from house to house in the city for any single firm, corporation or organization shall not exceed 25 at any one time.
(3)
Immediately prior to any solicitation of funds within the city, each solicitor, canvasser or caller from house to house shall present his identity card, issued by the city business license department, to each solicited person.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-33. - Prohibited acts.
It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser or caller from house to house within the city to do any of the following:
(1)
Falsely represent, directly or by implication, that funds are being solicited on behalf of any person other than the person registered with the city business license department.
(2)
Without the express prior permission of an occupant or property owner, to solicit at any residence, address, apartment complex or shopping mall where there is posted a sign forbidding any solicitation, other than areas open to public parking.
(3)
To remain on any private premises after being asked to leave the premises, or continued solicitation after being refused upon the public streets, areas or parks, and such action shall constitute trespass or harassment, respectively.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Sec. 22-34. - Annual events.
Any nonprofit organization conducting annual fundraising or sales within the city shall not be required to obtain identity cards from the city business license department, nor shall the number of such solicitors, canvassers or callers from house to house be restricted, provided, such annual fundraising or sales do not exceed seven days per year; however, such nonprofit organizations must comply with all other provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2013-29, § 1, 10-17-2013)
Secs. 22-35—22-70. - Reserved.
