Chapter 14 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Editor's Note: The City of Acworth Ordinance No. 2006-12, § 1, adopted Apr. 6, 2006, and codified herein as § 14-135, adopted the Cobb County Animal Control Ordinance, as amended, as an ordinance of the City of Acworth as if set forth herein in its entirety. Click here to view the Cobb County Animal Control Ordinance: http://library.municode.com/HTML/10572/level2/PTIOFCOCOCOGE_CH10AN.html#TOPTITLE .
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Nuisances, ch. 52; noise control for animals and birds, § 54-35.
State Law reference— Georgia Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; livestock running at large, O.C.G.A. § 4-3-1 et seq.; Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.; authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 14-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Animal control center means those facilities designated by the board of aldermen for the housing and care of animals pursuant to this chapter.
Board of health means the county board of health.
Owner means the person who has title to or the right to possession of an animal and shall include the caretaker or custodian of any animal.
Vicious animal means any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other animals by virtue of one or more attacks of such severity as to cause property damage or physical injury. An animal also is considered to be vicious if it makes an unprovoked attack on other animals or on human beings or on physical property.
(Code 1983, § 4-2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-2. - Scope of chapter.
Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any power or duty in conflict with the preemptive effect of any federal or state law.
(Code 1983, § 4-3)
Sec. 14-3. - Control of animals.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit such animal to be out of his immediate control and restraint, or to be left unattended off the premises of the owner, or to be upon property of another person without the permission of the owner or person in possession of such other property. For the purposes of this chapter, condominium and apartment common property shall not be considered to be the premises of the animal owner.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, control and restraint of dogs shall be maintained as follows:
(1)
When upon the premises of the owner, by keeping such dog upon a chain, leash or tie not less than six feet in length attached to the premises in such manner as to contain the dog within the bounds of the owner's premises, or by keeping such dog in an enclosed yard, either walled or fenced, or in any other appropriate restraining enclosure.
(2)
When off the premises of the owner:
a.
By an appropriate chain, leash or tie not exceeding six feet in length, and in the hands of a person capable of directly controlling the movements of such dog; or
b.
By a person in direct physical control of such dog who is capable of controlling the movements of such dog by voice command and who is within such proximity to such animal as to prevent a violation of this chapter.
(c)
No person shall tie, stake or fasten any animal within any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place within the city or in such manner that the animal has access to any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
(d)
Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or other enclosure in such manner that such female dog cannot come into contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
(e)
Every dog shall be restrained and controlled so as to prevent it from molesting passersby, chasing vehicles or attacking persons or other animals.
(Code 1983, § 4-9)
Sec. 14-4. - Sanitary conditions.
It shall be the duty of the owner to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition and free from extreme and unreasonably objectionable odor all structures, pens, yards and adjacent areas wherein any animal is kept.
(Code 1983, § 4-10)
Sec. 14-5. - Shelter and shade.
It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog kept outdoors or in an unheated enclosure to provide bedding and adequate shelter from the elements.
(Code 1983, § 4-11)
Sec. 14-6. - Use of animals as prizes.
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer as a prize or give away any animal in any contest, raffle or lottery or as an enticement for fund raising or for entry into any place of business.
(Code 1983, § 4-21)
Sec. 14-7. - Motorist hitting animal to stop and report.
Any person who, while operating a motor vehicle, strikes or causes injury to any domestic animal shall notify the owner if known or ascertainable, as well as the animal control department or the police department, of the injury to and location of the animal.
(Code 1983, § 4-22)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 90.
Sec. 14-8. - Abandonment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any domestic animal.
(Code 1983, § 4-23)
Sec. 14-9. - Interference with animal control officers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any animal control officer or to take or attempt to take any animal from any vehicle used to transport the animal, or to take or attempt to take any animal from the animal control impounding areas.
(Code 1983, § 4-24)
Sec. 14-10. - Nuisances.
(a)
The owner of any animal that habitually barks, whines, howls or causes other objectionable noise; or that is at large and chases or runs after persons or vehicles; or that destroys or damages any property of another person; or that causes serious annoyance to a neighboring residence and interferes with reasonable use and enjoyment of his property; or that is otherwise offensive so as to create a nuisance shall be deemed to be committing an act in violation of this section.
(b)
Upon receipt of an affidavit signed by a resident of the city residing in the vicinity of the violation, made under oath before a committing magistrate, stating the nature and the date of the act, the name of the owner of the animal, the address of the owner of the animal and a description of the animal doing such act, the animal control officer shall investigate the complaint to determine whether the act complained of violated this chapter. If determination is made in the affirmative, he shall proceed to pursue such remedies as are provided in this chapter.
(Code 1983, § 4-25)
Sec. 14-11. - Vicious animals.
The owner of any vicious animal that is not confined in a building or secure enclosure or any person who shall release either willfully or through a failure to exercise due care or control or takes such animal out of such building or secure enclosure in a manner that is likely to cause injury to another person or damage to the property of another person shall be in violation of this chapter, and such animal shall be permanently confined or humanely destroyed.
(Code 1983, § 4-26)
State Law reference— Dangerous Dog Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
Sec. 14-12. - Cruelty to animals.
(a)
Whoever willfully or maliciously kills, abuses, maims or disfigures any animal or willfully or maliciously administers poison to any animal or exposes any poisonous substance with intent that it shall be taken and swallowed by such animal shall be in violation of this chapter.
(b)
Whoever overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments or deprives an animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter or beats, mutilates or kills any animal or causes such action to be done, or carries in or upon vehicles or otherwise any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
(c)
Whoever confines any animal and fails to supply sufficient quantities of wholesome food and water, or who keeps any animals in any enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, or abandons to die any animal shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter.
(d)
No person shall:
(1)
Own, possess, keep or train any animal with the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of fighting.
(2)
Build, make, maintain or keep a pit on premises owned by him or occupied by him, or allow a pit to be built, made, maintained or kept on such premises for the purpose of an exhibition of animal fighting.
(3)
In any manner encourage, instigate, promote or assist in an exhibition of animal fighting.
(4)
Charge admission, be an assistant, umpire or participant or be present as a spectator at any exhibition of animal fighting.
(e)
Any animal control officer shall impound any animal found to be cruelly treated.
(Code 1983, § 4-27)
State Law reference— Cruelty to animals, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
Sec. 14-13. - Bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is designated as a bird sanctuary. It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wildfowl or to rob bird nests or wildfowl nests. However, if starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper health authorities of the city, such birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities under the supervision of the chief of police.
(Code 1983, § 4-28)
Sec. 14-14. - Cattle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to house, pen or otherwise confine any cattle in any house, pen or enclosure within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1983, § 4-29)
Sec. 14-15. - Goats, miniature pigs, and backyard chickens generally.
It is permissible within the corporate limits of the City of Acworth to have goats, miniature pigs and backyard chickens if the following standards are met:
(a)
Goats shall not exceed 24 inches in height (at the withers) or 80 pounds in weight. No more than two goats per property are permitted.
(b)
Miniature pigs shall not exceed 22 inches in height or 125 pounds in weight. No more than two pigs per property are permitted.
(c)
Backyard chickens raised for the purpose of providing food (eggs) or companionship as a pet (Gallus gallus domesticus):
(1)
Total number of hens per lot shall be as follows:
0—1 acre lot = 3 hens
1.01—2 acre lot = 6 hens
2.01—3 acre lot = 9 hens
3.01 + acre lot = 12 hens
(2)
No roosters or crowing hens are permitted.
(3)
Shall be maintained within a covered enclosure and fenced area set back a minimum of ten feet from all property lines and no less than 25 feet from any residential structure on an adjacent property.
(4)
Coops and feed are to be secured at all times to prevent any potential nuisance with mice or other pests.
(5)
All coops and surrounding areas are to be properly maintained and kept clean so as to not become a nuisance.
(d)
No slaughtering of any animal is permitted.
(e)
Properties are subject to compliance with all other city Codes and ordinances where not in conflict with this section.
(f)
If a property is found to have more than the allowable number of animals as specified in this section or if the animals are not cared for or contained in the manner specified in this section, or the animals are creating a nuisance, the property owner or resident may be issued a citation and be required to remove all of the animals in excess of the maximum allowable number specified and/or care for and contain the animals in accordance with all codes and laws.
(g)
If a property owner or resident is cited more than three times within a 365 day period for violating the conditions of this section, in addition to any fine the municipal court may also ban the property owner or resident from having any said animals on the subject property for a period up to one year.
(Code 1983, § 4-30; Ord. No. 2013-12, § 1, 4-18-2013)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2013-12, § 1, adopted April 18, 2013, changed the title of § 14-15 from goats, hogs generally to goats, miniature pigs, and backyard chickens generally.
Sec. 14-16. - Certain large animals as nuisance.
The chief of police may investigate any complaint regarding horses and other large animals and may report to the owner of the land on which such animal is found that the animal creates a public nuisance. The chief of police shall inform the property owner or tenant that he has 15 days to remove the animal or be subject to prosecution.
(Code 1983, § 4-31)
Secs. 14-17—14-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RABIES CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Control of rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.; inoculation of dogs and cats against rabies, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6; rabies inoculation tags, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-6.

Sec. 14-131. - Rabies inoculation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor or allow to be kept or harbored any dog or cat without a collar, which shall have attached a valid vaccination tag as required by rabies control rules and regulations of the board of health and by the laws of this state.
(Code 1983, § 4-7(a))
Sec. 14-132. - Construction, enforcement of article.
Insofar as the control of rabies is concerned, this article shall be construed and enforced consistently with any rules and regulations promulgated by the board of health. The director of Cobb County Animal Control Department shall enforce any such rabies control rules and regulations that may be promulgated by the board of health.
(Code 1983, § 4-7(b))
Sec. 14-133. - Identification tag and collar generally.
The identification and collar prescribed in section 14-131 shall be worn at all times by any dog or cat except when participating in a pet show or exhibit. However, any dog or cat being shipped or transported through the city or any dog or cat entering the city only for the purpose of a temporary stay not exceeding 14 days shall be exempt from the provisions of this section but shall be subject to all other provisions of this chapter and of the rabies control rules and regulations of the board of health.
(Code 1983, § 4-8)
Sec. 14-134. - Animal bites and biting dogs.
(a)
Any person having information that an animal has bitten or attacked a person shall immediately report such information to the police department and the county animal control department and to the board of health.
(b)
If an animal has bitten a person, such animal shall be immediately confined pursuant to the rules of the county animal control department.
(Code 1983, § 4-12)
Sec. 14-135. - Animal control, contract with the county.
The City of Acworth hereby adopts the Animal Control Ordinance of Cobb County, being Chapter 10 of the Official Code of Cobb County, Georgia, as amended, as an ordinance of the City of Acworth as if set forth herein in its entirety. Such ordinance shall be applicable and enforceable within the city limits of the City of Acworth. The mayor and board of aldermen shall contract through an intergovernmental agreement with the county for animal control within the city. This shall include enforcement of the Animal Control Ordinance of Cobb County within the city, and the Dangerous Dog Control Law as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-20 through 4-8-30. In concurrence with those powers granted to Cobb County Animal Control through the Animal Control Ordinance of Cobb County or of the Dangerous Dog Control Law, the Acworth Police Department has the power to issue citations regarding dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs within their jurisdiction. Any violation of the dangerous dog control law as set forth in O.C.G.A. §§ 4-8-20 through 4-8-30, as amended, shall be punished as set forth therein. Any violation of said Animal Control Ordinance of Cobb County shall be punished as authorized in section 4.13 of the city charter.
(Ord. No. 2006-12, § 1, 4-6-2006)
Editor's note— Click here to view the Cobb County Animal Control Ordinance: http://library.municode.com/HTML/10572/level2/PTIOFCOCOCOGE_CH10AN.html#TOPTITLE .
Secs. 14-136—14-170. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 14-171. - Surrender; notice to owner.
(a)
Subject to the provisions of this chapter relating to rabies control and to the rules and regulations of the board of health, any animal found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be taken and impounded at the animal control center.
(b)
Any person may take up and place with the county animal control department any animal running at large in violation of this chapter.
(Code 1983, § 4-13(a), (b))
