ARTICLE VII. - R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 700. - Declaration of legislative intent.
It is hereby declared to be the intent of this article with respect to R-2 Residential Districts to establish reasonable standards of performance and selection of uses permitted therein, in order to maintain and protect the desirable benefits which single-family detached residential uses have throughout the community.
Section 701. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected, altered, or used and a lot may be used or occupied for any of the following purposes and no other:
(1)
Any use permitted in the R-1A Residential District.
Section 702. - Height regulations.
The maximum height and [of] buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district shall be:
(1)
For any dwelling, thirty-five (35) feet and not to exceed three (3) stories.
(2)
For any building accessory to any dwelling fifteen (15) feet and not exceeding one (1) story.
Section 703. - Area, width and yard regulations.
(a)
Lot area: A lot area of not less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet per dwelling unit, the lot having a minimum width of eighty (80) feet at the building line shall be provided for every building hereafter erected, altered or used in whole or in part as a dwelling, provided that in the case of a lot held in single and separate ownership, at the effective date of this ordinance having an area of less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet, or a width less than eighty (80) feet, a dwelling may be built thereon when authorized as a variance.
(b)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard the depth of which shall be at least forty (40) feet, provided that a lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals. In the case of a corner lot, a front yard shall be required on each street on which the lot abuts; provided that any corner lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals.
(c)
Side yards: In the case of a single-family dwelling, there shall be two (2) side yards, one on each side of the building, together having an aggregate width of not less than thirty (30) feet, but neither having a width of less than ten (10) feet, provided that in the case of a lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals.
(d)
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard, the depth of which shall be at least twenty (20) feet, provided that in the case of a lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals. An accessory use structure may be erected within the rear yard not closer than five (5) feet to the rear property line and ten (10) feet to the side property line. On a corner lot an accessory use structure must be no closer than twenty (20) feet of the street line and ten (10) feet to the rear property line.
(e)
Building coverage: The building area shall not exceed twenty (20) percent of the lot area.
