ARTICLE XX. - OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 19-30 et seq.

Section 2000. - Required off-street parking facilities.
Except with respect to lots in District C-1, there shall be provided off-street parking for motor vehicles, and the minimum number of parking spaces to be provided shall be shown in the following list:
EXPAND
Use Spaces Required
Single and two-family dwellings 2 per dwelling unit
Rooming houses, fraternities, sororities, dormitories, convalescent homes 1 parking space for each 2 residents and 1 space for each 2 employees
Hotels 1 space for each guest room, suites, or units plus any spaces required for accessory uses
Apartments and townhouses 2 spaces per dwelling unit
Mobile home subdivisions and parks 2 per mobile home
Churches, theaters, facilities for spectator sports, auditoriums, concert halls 1 space for each 4 seats
Barber shops and beauty parlors 2 plus 1.5 per chair
Bowling alleys 4 spaces per lane in addition to spaces required for restaurant facilities - excluding snack bar
Fast food take-out establishments and drive-in restaurants 0.10 times floor area in square feet
Restaurants (except drive-ins) 1 space for each 2 seats plus 1 space for each 2 employees on shift of greatest employment
Furniture, appliance, household equipment, carpet and hardware stores, repair shops including shoe repair, contractor's showrooms, museums and galleries 1 per 800 square feet of floor area
Funeral parlors 1 for each 2 seats in areas used for assembly purposes, plus sufficient space to park or store all company owned or leased motor vehicles
Gas stations 1 space per 400 square feet but not less than 6 spaces
Laundromats 0.5 per machine
Doctors' and dentists' offices 1 space for each 300 square feet of the gross floor area, plus 1 space for each 2 employees
Banks 1 space for each 200 square feet of total floor area plus 1 space for each 3 employees
Warehouses 1 per 500 square feet of floor space
  For uses not specifically listed above, the requirements listed below are applicable:
EXPAND
Use Spaces Required
Retail stores and service establishments 1 space per 200 square feet of floor space and outdoor sales space - if covered
Offices 1 per 300 square feet of floor space
Other commercial and industrial uses 0.75 times maximum number of employees on premises at any one time.
  Where calculation in accordance with the foregoing list results in requiring a fractional space, any fraction less than ½ shall be disregarded and any fraction of ½ or more shall be required one space.
(Ord. No. Ord. of 5-11-98)
Section 2001. - Miscellaneous off-street parking rules.
The following rules shall be observed:
(1)
In Districts R-1, R-2, R-3, RM-3, and R-4, required off-street parking shall be provided on the lot on which is located the use to which the parking pertains. In other districts, such parking may be provided either on the same lot or on another lot in a residential district but only where the lot on which the parking spaces are located and the lot on which the use requiring them is located are not separated by more than three hundred (300) feet at their closest points, measured along a street or streets.
(2)
Where off-street parking is located on a lot other than the lot occupied by the use which required it, site plan approval for both lots is required.
(3)
The use of any required parking space for the storage of any motor vehicle for sale, or for any other purpose other than the parking of motor vehicles, is prohibited.
(4)
The following minimum design standards shall be observed in laying out off-street parking facilities:
EXPAND
Parking Angle Stall Width Aisle Width Parking Stall Length Curb to Curb
0° to 15°  9 ft. 12 ft. 23 ft. 30 ft.
16° to 37° 10 ft. 11 ft. 19 ft. 47 ft.
38° to 57° 10 ft. 13 ft. 19 ft. 54 ft.
58° to 74° 10 ft. 18 ft. 19 ft. 61 ft.
75° to 90° 10 ft. 24 ft. 19 ft. 63 ft.
  Section 2002. - Design and requirements for commercial and industrial parking lots.
All parking lots in commercial and industrial districts shall be operated and maintained in accordance with all of the following conditions:
(1)
They shall not be used for the sale, repair or dismantling of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies.
(2)
They shall be properly graded for drainage; surfaced with concrete, asphaltic concrete, asphalt, oil or any dust-free surfacing and maintained in good condition, free of weeds, dust, trash or debris.
(3)
They shall be provided with entrances and exits so located as to minimize traffic congestion and the effect of headlight glare.
(4)
They shall be provided with wheel or bumper guards so located and arranged that no part of any parked vehicles will extend beyond the boundaries of the parking lot.
(5)
Lighting facilities shall be so arranged that they neither unreasonably nor unnecessarily disturb occupants of adjacent residential properties nor interfere with traffic by either location or glare.
Section 2003. - Reduction of facilities.
Off-street parking facilities existing at the effective date of this ordinance shall not subsequently be reduced to an amount less than required hereunder for a similar new building or new use. Off-street parking facilities provided to comply with the provision of this ordinance shall not subsequently be reduced below the requirements of this ordinance.
Section 2004. - Required off-street loading spaces.
Loading spaces required under this section shall be at least fifty (50) feet long and twelve (12) feet wide. The regulations of this section are not applicable in District C-4. Every lot used for commercial or industrial purposes and having a building or buildings with a total floor area of at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet and every lot used for office or research purposes on which there is a building or buildings having a total floor area of at least twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, shall be provided with an off-street loading space. An additional off-street loading space shall be required for lots used for commercial or industrial purposes where the floor area of all buildings exceeds one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
