ARTICLE X. - R-4 APARTMENT DISTRICT

Section 1000. - Declaration of legislative intent.
The purpose of establishing apartment districts shall be to encourage the logical and timely development of land for apartment purposes in accordance with the objectives, policies, and proposals of the future land use plan; to permit a variety of housing; to assure the suitable design of apartments in order to protect the surrounding environment of adjacent and nearby neighborhoods; and to insure that the proposed development will constitute a residential environment of sustained desirability and stability and not produce a volume of traffic in excess of the capacity for which access streets are designed.
Section 1001. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected or used, and a lot may be used or occupied for the following purposes, and no other, provided that the requirements of the following sections are met:
(1)
Apartment house or group of apartment houses which constitute a single operating or proprietary unit.
(2)
Any use permitted in an R-3 District, excluding detached mobile homes, not within a mobile home park.
(3)
Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above uses.
(Ord. of 3-11-91, § 4; Ord. of 12-14-98)
Section 1002. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district shall be:
(1)
For any dwelling, thirty-five (35) feet and not to exceed three (3) stories.
(2)
For any building accessory to any dwelling, fifteen (15) feet and not exceeding one (1) story.
Section 1003. - Area, width and yard regulations.
(a)
The lot area, lot width, yard requirements and building coverage requirements for single-family dwellings, two-family—twins and two-family—duplexes shall be the same as required in the R-3 High Density Residential District, article VIII.
(b)
Apartment building:
(1)
Building coverage: Not more than fifteen (15) percent of the lot area shall be occupied by a building or buildings.
(2)
Dwelling units per acre: There shall be not more than ten (10) dwelling units per developable acre.
(3)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be not less than fifty (50) feet in depth.
(4)
Side and rear yards: No building shall be located closer than thirty (30) feet to a side or rear property line adjacent to a residential district, or within twenty-five (25) feet of any property line.
(5)
Distance between buildings: The distance, at the closest point, between any two (2) buildings of a group of apartments shall not be less than ten (10) feet.
(6)
Paving: All areas provided for use by vehicles and all pedestrian walks shall be constructed in accordance with city specifications. All drives and parking areas shall be curbed.
(7)
Access: Provision shall be made for safe and efficient ingress and egress to and from vehicle streets and highways serving the apartments without undue congestion to or interference with normal traffic flow.
(8)
Utilities: No development shall be permitted unless public water supply and sanitary sewerage is supplied.
(9)
Plan: The proposed development shall be constructed in accordance with an overall plan and shall be designed as a unified architectural unit with appropriate landscaping.
(10)
Recreation: The developer shall be encouraged to give consideration to the provision of community areas, laundry facilities, playground and totlots and other services necessary for the comfort and convenience of apartment residents.
