ARTICLE I. - SHORT TITLE, EFFECTIVE DATE AND DECLARATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT

Section 100. - Short title and effective date.
This Ordinance shall be effective May 9, 1988 and shall be known, referred to and cited as, "The Zoning Ordinance of the City of Vidalia."
Section 101. - Declaration of legislative intent.
(a)
Authority. The City Council of Vidalia, Georgia, in accordance with the authority granted them by the State of Georgia's General Planning Enabling Act of 1957, as amended, hereby ordains, and enacts into law the following articles and sections. (Current authority—Georgia Constitution of 1983, Article IX, Section 11, Paragraph IV.)
Editor's note— Such act was not carried forward from the 1933 Code to O.C.G.A.
(b)
Purpose. The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth have been prepared in accordance with an adopted future land use and major thoroughfare plan for the city to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the city, to facilitate orderly and harmonious development, and to regulate the density of population and intensity of land use in order to provide for adequate light and air. In addition, this ordinance has been prepared to provide for vehicle off-street parking to prevent the over-crowding of land, blight, danger and congestion in the circulation of people and the loss of life, health or property from flood or other dangers. The zoning regulations and districts as herein set forth are also employed to protect transportation facilities, public facilities, residential areas, recreation and open space and the natural resources of the City of Vidalia, Georgia.
Section 102. - Interpretation.
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health and welfare. Where this ordinance imposes a greater restriction upon the building, structures or premises, upon heights of buildings or structures or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by any other ordinance, rates, codes, permits, or regulations, or by easements, covenants, deed restrictions or agreements, the provision of this ordinance shall govern.
Section 103. - Conflict.
It is not intended by this ordinance to repeal, abrogate, annul or interfere with any existing ordinance or enactment, or with any rule, regulations or permit adopted or issued thereunder, except insofar as the same may be inconsistent or in conflict with any of the provisions of this ordinance, provided that where this ordinance imposes greater restrictions upon the use of buildings or land, or upon the height and bulk of buildings, or prescribes larger open spaces than are required by the provisions of such ordinance, enactment, rule, regulation or permit, then the provisions of this ordinance shall control.
Section 104. - Validity.
Should any section or provision of this ordinance by declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of this ordinance as a whole, or of any other part thereof.
Section 105. - Repealer.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
Section 106. - Permit or license in violation.
If any permit or license is issued in violation of any provision of this ordinance or purports to authorize the doing of any act not permitted by any provision of the ordinance, said permit or license shall be void.
(Ord. of 10-9-89)
