ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS

Section 300. - Classes of districts.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the City of Vidalia is hereby divided into fourteen (14) districts which shall be designated as follows:
A-1 Agricultural District
R-1 Single-Family Residential District—Low Density
R-1A Single-Family Residential District—Low Density
R-2 Single-Family Residential District—Medium Density
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
RM-3 Multi-Family Residential District
R-4 Apartment District
OR Office Residential District
C-1 Central Business District
C-2 Commercial Retail District
C-3 Highway Oriented Commercial District
I-1 Light Industrial District
I-2 Heavy Industrial District
PUD Planned Unit Development District
Section 301. - Zoning map.
The location and boundaries of such districts shall be as shown on the map attached to and hereby made a part of this ordinance, which shall be designated "Zoning Map of the City of Vidalia, Georgia." The said map and all the notations, references and other data thereon shall be as much a part of this ordinance as if fully described herein.
Section 302. - District boundaries.
The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated, either the center lines of streets, lanes, watercourses, rights-of-way of power lines and other public utilities or such lines extended or lines parallel thereto. Where the boundaries of a single district are indicated as including directly opposite sides of a street, lane, lake or watercourse, or right-of-way of a power line of other public utility, for any portion of its length, the district so indicated shall be construed to apply to the entire bed of such street, lane, lake or water course, or right-of-way of such power line, railroad or other public utility, lying within such portion of its length. Where uncertainty exists as to the location of any said boundaries as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where a district boundary is indicated approximately following the center line of a street, lane, lake or watercourse, or right-of-way of a power line or other public utility, such center line shall be construed to be such boundary.
(2)
Where a district boundary is indicated as approximately following a lot line or other property line, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundary.
(3)
Where a district boundary divides a lot or runs through undivided property, the location of such boundary, unless otherwise specified by figures on the zoning map, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on said map.
(4)
Where figures are shown on the zoning map between a street and a district boundary, there [they] shall indicate that the district boundary runs parallel to the street line at a distance therefrom equivalent to the number of feet so indicated, unless specified. Where scaled distances do not agree within such figures, the figures shall control.
Section 303. - Federal and state owned property.
Whenever federal or state owned property is included in one (1) or more zoning districts, it shall be subject to the provisions of this ordinance only insofar as permitted by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America and the State of Georgia.
