ARTICLE V. - R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

Section 500. - Declaration of legislative intent.
It is hereby declared to be the intent of this article with respect to R-1 Residential Districts to establish reasonable standards of performance and selection of uses permitted therein, in order to maintain and protect the desirable benefits which single-family detached residential uses have throughout the community.
Section 501. - Use regulations.
A building may be erected, altered or used, and a lot may be used or occupied for any of the following purposes and no other.
(1)
Single-family detached dwelling units, excluding mobile homes.
(2)
Family day care.
(Ord. of 3-11-91, ยง 4)
Section 502. - Height regulations.
The maximum height of buildings and other structures erected or enlarged in this district shall be:
(1)
For any dwelling, thirty-five (35) feet and not to exceed three (3) stories.
(2)
For any building accessory to any dwelling twenty-four (24) feet and not exceeding two (2) story[ies].
(Ord. of 2-10-97(2))
Section 503. - Area, width and yard regulations.
(a)
Lot area: A lot area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet per dwelling unit, the lot having a minimum width of one hundred (100) feet at the building line shall be provided for every building hereafter erected, altered or used in whole or in part as a dwelling, provided that in the case of a lot held in single and separate ownership, at the effective date of this ordinance, having an area of less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, or a width less than one hundred (100) feet, a dwelling may be built thereon when authorized as a variance.
(b)
Front yard: There shall be a front yard the depth of which shall be at least forty (40) feet provided that a lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals. In the case of a corner lot, a front yard shall be required on each street on which the lot abuts; provided that any corner lot in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provision of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals.
(c)
Side yards In the case of a single-family dwelling, there shall be two (2) side yards, one (1) on each side of the building, together having an aggregate width of not less than thirty (30) feet, but neither having a width of less than ten (10) feet, provided that in the case of a lot held in single and separate ownership not in conformance with the provisions of this section may be granted a variance by the board of appeals.
(d)
Rear yard: See section 1706, Table 1.
(e)
Building coverage: The building area shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the lot area.
(f)
Accessory structure: An accessory use structure may be erected within the rear yard not closer than (5) five feet to the rear property line or not closer than ten (10) feet of either side property lines except on a corner lot the accessory structure must be no closer than twenty (20) feet to any street right-of-way and not closer than ten (10) feet to any property line.
(Ord. of 4-8-96(2))
