ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 12-1. - Extensions of water and sewer lines.
(a)
Existing development and existing subdivisions: When the city extends water and sewer lines in order to furnish such services to older developed sections of the city and existing legally recorded subdivisions which were partially developed or completely developed as of October 14, 1968 such extensions shall be accomplished by the city as it deems it necessary.
(b)
Developments after October 14, 1968, and before: When completely a new subdivision or lot is legally recorded after October 14, 1968, the subdivider or owner shall bear the cost of pipe, materials, fittings, fire hydrants, manholes, etc., for water and sewer lines. Installation of pipe will be accomplished by the city at no cost to the subdivider. Subdivisions now legally recorded, but without properly dedicated streets to the city are considered new subdivisions for the purposes of this section. Group developments such as apartments, which are not a part of a subdivision shall comply with these provisions.
(c)
General policies:
(1)
Water and sewer lines shall be placed within public easements established for such purpose or within the right-of-way line of streets which have been dedicated to the city.
(2)
The costs of water and sewer pipe, materials, fittings, fire hydrants, etc., shall be estimated by the city and shall be paid in advance by the subdivider and/or property owners before construction begins. Adjustment of the final cost of facilities shall be made by the city and the subdivider and/or property owners upon completion of work.
(3)
All pipe, lines, fittings, fire hydrants, and connections used in water and sewer lines shall be of size, dimension and specifications as determined by the city manager or consulting engineers.
(4)
Where engineering studies determine that water and sewer extensions are impractical either because of excessive costs to the city or unusual conditions, even though other criteria of this section can be met, the city shall not extend water and sewer lines until such time as it is more feasible to extend lines.
(5)
Whenever water and sewer extensions involve financial participation by the city, the city shall participate in financing the improvements if funds are budgeted for the fiscal year in which the improvements are to be made. All money budgeted for one (1) fiscal year shall not be used on one (1) project.
(6)
Should the city encounter subsurface or latent conditions during the installation of pipe which are beyond the city's capabilities to remove or correct, the city shall give immediate notice to the subdivider and/or property owners of such conditions. The divider and/or property owners shall make suitable arrangements for corrections of subsurface conditions.
(7)
Whenever water and sewer extensions are to be installed in areas of unusual topographic features and water bodies, where it is beyond the capabilities of city personnel to install lines properly without the aid of a survey and where subdividers and/or property owners are to pay for extensions then such parties shall also bear the cost of surveying and engineering fees. Where the city is directly involved in paying for lines, then the city shall absorb engineering and surveying fees.
(8)
When water and sewer pipe, materials, fittings, fire hydrants, etc., are purchased by subdividers and/or property owners and installed in street right-of-way or easements, such pipe automatically becomes city property and the city is responsible for maintenance.
(Code 1968, § 19-1)
Sec. 12-2. - Self-inspection of water and sewer projects; state law not applicable with city.
Pursuant to the authority contained in Section 3 of Act 1046 Georgia Laws, 1996, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d), relating to self-inspection of water and sewer projects by master plumbers or utility contractors, shall not be applicable within the city.
(Ord. of 5-28-96)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted May 28, 1996, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of § 1 of said ordinance as § 12-2 herein was at the editor's discretion.
Secs. 12-3—12-19. - Reserved.
