Chapter 3 - AIRPORT[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Aviation generally, O.C.G.A. § 6-1-1; acquiring property therefor, O.C.G.A. §§ 6-3-20 et seq., 36-34-3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3-1. - Airport rules and regulations.
The Vidalia Municipal Airport rules and regulations are on file in the office of the city clerk. Such rules and regulations are hereby incorporated in this Code by reference as fully as if set out at length herein.
Secs. 3-2—3-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - AIRPORT ZONING

Sec. 3-20. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Airport: The Vidalia Municipal Airport.
Airport hazard: Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at the airport or which is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.
Airport zoning map: The airport zoning map described in section 3-22.
Committee: The airport committee of the council, established as the administrative agency to administer and enforce this article.
Landing area: The area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff, or taxiing of aircraft.
Nonconforming use: Any structure, tree or use of land which does not conform to a regulation prescribed in this article as of the effective date of the regulation.
Structure: Any object constructed or installed by humans, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks and overhead transmission lines.
Tree: Any object of natural growth.
(Code 1968, § 3-12)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 3-21. - Airport committee constituted administrative agency.
The airport committee of the council is hereby designated the administrative agency charged with the duty of administering and enforcing the regulations herein prescribed; the duties of the committee shall include that of hearing, deciding and granting all permits under sections 3-30 and 3-31, but the committee shall not have or exercise any of the powers or duties herein delegated to the board of adjustment.
(Code 1968, § 3-13)
Cross reference— Committees of the council, § 2-31.
Sec. 3-22. - Airport zoning map adopted, incorporated by reference.
In order to outline definitely the horizontal and vertical limits beyond which the projection of any structure or tree will constitute an airport hazard, the airport zoning map of the airport, made by Marcus C. Long, revised October 26, 1959, and January 8, 1960, and which is recorded in plat book 3, page 10, in the office of the clerk of the superior court of Toombs County, Georgia, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein, and made a part hereof, as fully as if the same were set forth at length.
(Code 1968, § 3-14)
Sec. 3-23. - Established elevation of airport.
The established elevation of the airport is two hundred seventy-five (275) feet above mean sea level.
(Code 1968, § 3-15)
Sec. 3-24. - Airport reference point fixed.
The airport reference point is established at a location described as follows: From the intersection of the center lines of the northwest-southeast and the north-south runways, measure thence in a southerly direction, along the center line of the north-south runway, a distance of one thousand, eight hundred fifty (1,850) feet to a point; thence ninety (90) degrees in an easterly direction, a distance of nine hundred (900) feet to the airport reference point.
(Code 1968, § 3-16)
Sec. 3-25. - Approach surface, conical surface, horizontal surface, transitional surface zones; established; defined.
In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, airport approach surface zones, horizontal surface zones, conical surface zones and transitional surface zones are hereby established as shown on the airport zoning map and as defined in this section:
Approach surface zones: The approach surface zone is an inclined plane located directly above the approach area. The dimensions of the approach area are measured horizontally. The approach areas for each particular runway are symmetrically located with respect to the extended runway center lines and have lengths and widths as shown on the airport zoning map, which also shows the slopes of the respective approach surface zones.
Conical surface zone: The conical surface zone extends upward and outward from the periphery of the horizontal surface zone with a slope of 20:1 measured in a vertical plane passing through the airport reference point. Measuring radially outward, from the periphery of the horizontal surface zone, the conical surface extends for a horizontal distance as shown on the airport zoning map.
Horizontal surface zone: The horizontal surface zone is a plane, circular in shape, and with its height one hundred fifty (150) feet above the established airport elevation and having a radius from the airport reference point as indicated on the airport zoning map adopted in section 3-22.
Transitional surface zones: The transitional surface zones are inclined planes with a slope of 7:1 measured upward and outward in a vertical plane at right angles to the center line of the runway. The transitional surface zones, symmetrically located on either side of the runway, extend upward and outward from a line on either side of the runway which is parallel to and level with the runway center line. These parallel lines are at a horizontal distance from the runway center line equal to one-half of the minimum width of each approach area as shown on the airport zoning map.
(Code 1968, § 3-17)
Sec. 3-26. - Height limits for structures, trees established.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone to a height in excess of the height limit herein established for such zone. For purposes of this regulation, height limits shown on the airport zoning map are hereby established for each of the zones in question.
(Code 1968, § 3-18)
Sec. 3-27. - Minimum height limit prescribed.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary, the height limits prescribed by this article shall not establish for any particular parcel of land at any particular point within such parcel, a height limit of less than fifty (50) feet above the surface elevation of the land at that point.
(Code 1968, § 3-19)
Sec. 3-28. - Use restrictions established.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of land within any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone, in such manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between the airport and aircraft, or to make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others, or to result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport, or to impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise to endanger the landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(Code 1968, § 3-20)
Sec. 3-29. - Nonconforming structures, trees, uses.
The regulations prescribed in sections 3-26 and 3-28 shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change or alteration of any existing structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of March 15, 1960, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any structure the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to March 15, 1960 and which was diligently prosecuted and completed within two (2) years thereof.
(Code 1968, § 3-21)
Sec. 3-30. - Variances.
Any person desiring to erect any structure or increase the height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use such person's property, not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article, may apply for a variance therefrom. Such variance shall be allowed where a literal application or enforcement of the regulations of this article would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
(Code 1968, § 3-22)
Sec. 3-31. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses: No material change shall be made in the use of land, and no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise established, in any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone, unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each such application shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would conform with the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit applied for shall be granted.
(b)
Existing uses: Before any existing use, structure or tree may be replaced, substantially altered or repaired, rebuilt, allowed to grow higher, or replanted within any airport approach surface zone, horizontal surface zone, conical surface zone or transitional surface zone, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change or repair. No such permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use, structure or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on March 15, 1960, or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for a permit for replacement, change or repair of an existing use, structure or tree shall be granted.
(Code 1968, § 3-23)
Sec. 3-32. - Hazard marking and lighting.
Any permit or variance granted under section 3-30 or section 3-31 may, if such action is deemed advisable to effect the purposes of this article and reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the city, at its own expense, to install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(Code 1968, § 3-24)
Sec. 3-33. - Board of adjustment—Creation; powers.
There is hereby created a board of adjustment to have and exercise the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the committee in the enforcement of this article;
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this article upon which such board may be required to pass by subsequent ordinances;
(3)
To hear and decide specific variances under section 3-31.
(Code 1968, § 3-25)
Sec. 3-34. - Same—Appointment, term of members.
The board of adjustment shall consist of a committee of council appointed by the mayor.
Sec. 3-35. - Same—Organization.
The board of adjustment shall elect one (1) of its members chairman, and shall elect a secretary who need not be a member of the board.
(Code 1968, § 3-27)
Sec. 3-36. - Same—Adoption of rules.
The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and procedure in harmony with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1968, § 3-28)
Sec. 3-37. - Same—Proceedings before board.
Meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in the chairman's absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board shall be public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
(Code 1968, § 3-29)
Sec. 3-38. - Appeals to board of adjustment.
(a)
Right of appeal: Any person aggrieved, or taxpayer affected, by any decision of the committee made in its administration of this article, if such person or taxpayer is of the opinion that a decision of the committee is an improper application of this article, may appeal to the board of adjustment for which provision is made in sections 3-33 through 3-37.
(b)
Filing appeal: All appeals taken under this section must be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the committee and with the board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The committee shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(c)
Appeal as stay of proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the committee certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in its opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by order of the board on notice to the committee and on due cause shown.
(d)
Hearing on appeal: The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice and due notice to the parties interested, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(e)
Authority of board: The board may, in conformity with the provisions of this article, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify, the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the committee.
(f)
Findings and conclusions of board: The board shall make written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the provisions of this article.
(g)
Vote of board required: The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the committee, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this article or to affect any variation in this article.
(Code 1968, § 3-30)
Sec. 3-39. - Appeal from decision of board of adjustment.
Any person aggrieved, or taxpayers affected, by any decision of the board of adjustment, may appeal to the council.
(Code 1968, § 3-31)
Sec. 3-40. - Effect of conflict of provisions.
Where this article imposes a greater or more stringent restriction upon the use of land than is imposed or required by any other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this article shall govern.
(Code 1968, § 3-32)
