Chapter 8 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 8-1. - Fire hydrants—Permit to open.
It shall be unlawful for any person to open a city fire hydrant without a permit from the city water department, unless the same is opened by the fire department.
(Code 1968, § 8-1)
Cross reference— Municipal utilities and services, ch. 12.
Sec. 8-2. - Same—Obstructing.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any fire hydrant in the city without first notifying the fire department in writing and obtaining the consent of the department.
(Code 1968, § 8-2)
Cross reference— Municipal utilities and services, ch. 12.
Sec. 8-3. - Damaging fire apparatus.
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and knowingly damage, in any way or by any means whatever, any hose, hook, ladder, reel or vehicle, or any other implement, material or apparatus of any kind belonging to, connected with, or used by the fire department in the city, as a part of its machinery, material or equipment for extinguishing fires.
(Code 1968, § 8-3)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 13.
Sec. 8-4. - False alarms—Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given a false alarm of fire, or to ring a fire bell or alarm except in case of fire.
(Code 1968, § 8-4)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 13.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Sec. 8-5. - Same—Fees.
A fee shall be charged to the alarm user by the city for the second, third and fourth false fire alarms from any single alarm system in a calendar year. In the event a fifth false fire alarm from any single system occurs in a calendar year, the city shall double the fee that was charged for the fourth false fire alarm. A fee schedule will be set by city council and maintained on file at city hall.
(Mo. of 2-8-88; Ord. of 6-11-18(2) )
Secs. 8-6—8-19. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— State regulations as to protection against fires, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-4; welfare, O.C.G.A. § 88-401.

Sec. 8-20. - Adoption of code.
(a)
The edition of the Standard Fire Prevention Code adopted in section 6-1 is hereby adopted as the fire prevention code for the city.
(b)
Such code is incorporated in and by reference made part of this article as fully as if set forth at length, and shall govern all matters covered therein, within the corporate limits.
(c)
A copy of such code shall be kept with the minutes of the council in the office of the city clerk.
(Ord. of 8-2-93(2))
Sec. 8-21. - Modifications of code.
The chief of the fire department shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or the chief's duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the fire department thereon shall be entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Code 1968, § 8-16)
Sec. 8-22. - Enforcement of code.
The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the chief of the fire department.
(Code 1968, § 8-17)
Sec. 8-23. - Appeals from decisions of fire chief.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of such code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the city council within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Code 1968, § 8-18)
Sec. 8-24. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the fire prevention code or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed, shall severally and for each such violation and noncompliance respectively, be punished as provided in section 1-8.
(b)
The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
The application of the above penalties shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Code 1968, § 8-19)
