ARTICLE XII. - AIRPORT ZONING[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of March 6, 2018 has been treated by the editor as superseding an uncodified Ord. of July 18, 2017 which pertained to the same subject matter.

Sec. 16-181. - Short title.
This article shall be known and may be cited as the Baldwin County Regional Airport Zoning Ordinance.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § I)
Sec. 16-182. - Definitions.
As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions shall include:
Airport. The airport is known as The Baldwin County Regional Airport with the Federal Aviation Administration Location Identifier - MLJ.
Airport elevation. 384.81 feet above mean sea level as established by Federal Aviation Administration and National Geodetic Survey.
Approach surface. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in section 16-184. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the perimeter of the approach zone.
Approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical zones. These zones are set forth in section 16-183.
Board of adjustment. A board consisting of three members appointed by the County Commission of Baldwin County as provided in Chapter 12 of the Laws of the State of Georgia.
Conical surface. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 feet horizontally to every one vertically (20:1) for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
Departure surface. A surface that is a trapezoidal shape with an inner width of 1,000 feet that begins at the end of the available runway and extends along the extended runway centerline to an outer width of 6,466 feet and with a slope of one unit vertically for every 40 units horizontally (40:1) for a horizontal distance of 10,200 feet.
Hazard to air navigation. An obstruction determined to have a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
Height. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this article and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
Horizontal surface. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation, encompassing an area from transitional surface to conical surface.
Nonconforming use. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or use of land, which is inconsistent with the provisions of this article or an amendment thereto.
Nonprecision instrument runway. A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in non-precision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned. It also means a runway for which a non-precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
Obstruction. Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section 16-184.
Person. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association or government entity; includes a trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
Precision instrument runway. A runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an instrument landing system (ILS) or a precision approach radar (FAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other planning document.
Primary surface. A surface longitudinally centered on an existing or planned runway extending 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in section 16-183. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Runway. An existing or planned defined area on an airport prepared for and designated for landing and take-off of aircraft along its length.
Touchdown zone elevation. 379.1 feet above mean sea level at the east end of the runway (approach to runway 28) and 384.81 feet above mean sea level at the west end of the runway (approach to runway 10) established by Federal Aviation Administration and National Geodetic Survey.
Structure. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by man, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, construction equipment, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
Transitional surfaces. These surfaces extend outward at 90-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically (7:1) from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
Tree. Any object of natural growth including brush and vegetation.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § II)
Sec. 16-183. - Airport departure surfaces.
In order to carry out the provisions of this article, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to the Baldwin County Regional Airport. Such zones are shown on Baldwin County Regional Airport Zoning Map consisting of one sheet, prepared by the Baldwin County Regional Airport Engineer, dated 5/18/2017 which is attached to this article and made a part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
(1)
Approach Zone A. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(2)
Approach Zone B. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(3)
Precision Approach Zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface; its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(4)
Transitional Zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the transitional surfaces.
(5)
Horizontal Zone. The horizontal zone the area below the horizontal surface. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
(6)
Conical Zone. The conical zone is the area below the conical surface.
(7)
Primary Surface. The width of the primary surface is 98.4 feet as measured perpendicular to the centerline.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § III)
Sec. 16-184. - Airport zone height limitations.
Except as otherwise provided in this article, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this article to a height in excess of the applicable height herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(1)
Approach Zone A. Slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at tine same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(2)
Approach Zone B. Slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(3)
Precision Approach Zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(4)
Transitional Zones. Slope seven feet horizontally to every one vertically (7:1) beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 100 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven (7) horizontally to every one vertically (7:1) beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping seven (7) horizontally to every one vertically (7:1) beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(5)
Horizontal Zone. Established at 150 feet above the established airport elevation.
(6)
Conical Zone. Slopes 20 horizontally to every one vertically (20:1) at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
(7)
Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § IV)
Sec. 16-185. - Use restriction.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this article in such a manner as create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, create an explosion hazard, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
All future activity and/or changes in zoning shall prohibit any new use or construction activity resulting in public gathering places in the approach zones. This shall include but not be limited to day care centers, health care facilities, schools, churches, and retail facilities.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § )
Sec. 16-186. - Use nonconforming uses.
(a)
Regulations not retroactive. - The regulations prescribed in this article shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration of any structure not conforming to the regulations as the effective date of this article, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article derives, and is diligently prosecuted and completed within a maximum of one year.
(b)
Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to allow the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the county manager to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of Baldwin County. For a site not located on property that is airport property, county right-of-way, or utility right-of-way, a permanent easement shall be established and recorded.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § VI)
Sec. 16-187. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses. Except as specifically provided in subsections (a)(1) and (2) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed, if such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this article shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with subsection 16-187(d). In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and conical zone, no permit shall be required or any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when or any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
(1)
In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than seventy-five feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
(2)
In the areas lying within the limits of the transitional zones beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transitional zones.
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this article except as set forth in subsection 16-184(7).
(b)
Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation, than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article derives or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
(c)
Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the county manager determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned for a period of six months or more than 80 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations. The county has the ability and authority to move forward and remove a nonconforming structure at the expense of the owner.
(d)
Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this article, may apply to the board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations, The application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination of no hazard to air navigation from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it is dully found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this article.
(e)
Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this article and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the board of adjustment, this condition may be modified to require the owner to permit Baldwin County, at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § VII)
Sec. 16-188. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the county manager to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the county manager upon a form published for that purpose.
Applications required by this article to be submitted to the county manager shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. The county manager shall forthwith transmit application for action by the board of adjustment.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § VIII)
Sec. 16-189. - Board of adjustment.
(a)
There is hereby created a board of adjustment to have and exercise the following powers: (1) to hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the county manager in the enforcement of this article; (2) to hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this article upon which such board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to pass; and (3) to hear and decide specific variances.
(b)
The board of adjustment shall consist of three members appointed by the county commission and each shall serve for a term of three years until a successor is duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of one year, one for a term of two years, and one for a term of three years. Members shall be removable by the county commission for cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing.
(c)
The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and in harmony with the provisions of this article and state laws. Meetings of the board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairperson or, in the absence of the chairperson, the acting chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board of adjustment shall be public. The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the county clerk and on due cause shown.
(d)
The board of adjustment shall make written findings of facts and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order, requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the provisions of this article.
(e)
The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board of adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the county manager or decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this article, or to effect variation to this article.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § IX)
Sec. 16-190. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the county manager made in the administration of this article, may appeal to the board of adjustment.
(b)
All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board of adjustment, by filing with the county manager a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The county manager shall forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(c)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the county manager certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would in the opinion of the county manager cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of the board of adjustment or notice to the county manager and on due cause shown.
(d)
The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(e)
The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this article, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § X)
Sec. 16-191. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of adjustment, may appeal to the circuit court as provided in Section III of Chapter 12 of the Public Laws of the State of Georgia.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § XI)
Sec. 16-192. - Penalties.
Each violation of this article or of any regulation, order, or ruling promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable by a fine of not more than 500 dollars or imprisonment for not more than 180 days or both; and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § XII)
Sec. 16-193. - Conflicting regulations.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this article and any other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § XIII)
Sec. 16-194. - Severability.
If any of the provisions of this article or the application thereof to any person or circumstances are held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the article which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this article are declared to be severable.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § XIV)
Sec. 16-195. - Effective date.
Whereas, the immediate operation of the provisions of this article is necessary for the preservation of the public health, public safety, and general welfare, an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and the ordinance from which this article derives shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by the Baldwin County Commission and publication and posting as required by law.
( Ord. of 3-6-2018 , § XV)
