Chapter 22 - BUSINESSES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; amusements and entertainments, ch. 10; taxation, ch. 50; hotel-motel excise tax, § 50-31 et seq.; utilities, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Flea market vendors' records, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-360; Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-370 et seq.; Fair Business Practices Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 10-1-390 et seq.; local taxes and fees authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(b).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - License fee for fortunetellers.
The annual license fee for any fortuneteller, palmist, clairvoyant, phrenologist, reader of spiritualism, astrologer, or any person by whatever named called, professing ability to foretell future events by any means whatever, or selling any articles and giving or offering to give therewith a reading or fortune, phrenology, spiritualism, and/or astrology, shall be $500.00, unprorated.
State Law reference— Authority to prohibit, regulate or tax fortunetelling, astrology and palmistry and similar practices, businesses and professions, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-15.
Secs. 22-2—22-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAXES AND REGULATORY FEES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Electrical contractors, plumbers, conditioned air contractors, low-voltage contractors, and utility contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; registration of nonresident contractors with state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-31; local taxes and fees authorized, Ga. Const. art. IX, § IV, ¶ I(b).

Sec. 22-31. - Occupation tax requirement for businesses, trades, professions and occupations and for business dealings with the county.
Each person engaged in any business, trade, profession or occupation in the county, whether with a location in the unincorporated area of the county, or in the case of an out-of-state business with no location in the state, having one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the unincorporated part of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers in the county, or who owns real or personal property which generates income and which is located in the unincorporated part of the county pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, shall pay an occupation tax for said business, trade; profession or occupation; which tax and any applicable registration shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the place of business, if the taxpayer has a permanent business location in the county. If the taxpayer has no permanent business location in the county, such business tax registration shall be shown to the code enforcement officer or his deputies or to any law enforcement officer of the county upon his or their request.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 1)
Sec. 22-32. - Construction of terms; definitions.
The following, words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative fee means a component of an occupational tax which approximates the reasonable cost of handling and processing the occupation tax.
City means the City of Milledgeville, Georgia.
Dominant line means the type of business within a multiple-line business that the greatest amount of income is derived from.
Employee means an individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation or whose employer issues to such individual for purposes of documenting compensation a form I.R.S. W-2 but not a form I.R.S. 1099.
Location and office mean any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession or business for revenue raising purposes.
Person, wherever used in this article, shall be held to include sole proprietors, corporations, partnerships, or any other form of business organization, but specifically excludes charitable nonprofit organizations and state and local authorities.
Practitioner of profession or occupation means one who by state law requires state licensure regulating such profession or occupation. Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
Regulatory fees means payments, whether designated as license fees, permit fees or by another name, which are required by a local government as an exercise of its police power and as a part of or as an aid to regulation of an occupation, profession or business. The amount of a regulatory fee shall approximate the reasonable cost of the actual regulatory activity performed by the county. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee. Development impact fees as defined by O.C.G.A. § 36-71-2(8) or other costs or conditions of zoning or land development are not regulatory fees.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-33. - Administrative and regulatory fee structure; occupation tax structure.
(a)
A nonprorated, nonrefundable administrative fee of $25.00 shall be required on all business occupation tax accounts for the initial start up, or reopening of those accounts.
(b)
A regulatory fee will be imposed as provided under O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(b) on those applicable businesses. A regulatory fee may not include an administrative fee.
(c)
No regulatory fee shall be charged for persons in occupations and professions as set forth in section 22-38.
(d)
Businesses shall be charged an annual administrative fee of $35.00; provided, however, this fee shall not be charged to businesses which pay an occupation tax of $35.00 or more.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 3; Amd. of 1-1-1996)
Sec. 22-34. - Occupation tax levied; restrictions.
(a)
Tax levied. An occupation tax shall be levied upon those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices in the unincorporated part of the county, upon the applicable out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 based upon the number of employees of the business or practitioner.
(b)
Occupation tax schedule.
EXPAND
Number of Employees Tax Rate
1—3 $100.00
4—9 $200.00
10—19 $350.00
20—29 $500.00
30—39 $800.00
40—49 $1,000.00
50 or more $1,500.00
  (c)
Number of employees. The number of employees of the business or practitioner shall be computed on a fulltime position equivalent basis, provided that for the purposes of this computation an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a fulltime employee and that the average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be added and such sum shall be divided by 40 to produce fulltime position equivalents.
(d)
Number of locations; employees from other localities or states; applicability.
(1)
The county shall not require the payment of more than one occupational tax for each location that a business or practitioner shall have.
(2)
The county shall not require an occupation tax on those employees that were taxed by occupation tax in other localities or states.
(3)
An occupation tax shall not be levied in any other manner except as described in this section.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 4; Ord. No. 22-34 , 10-21-2016)
Sec. 22-35. - Paying occupation tax of business with no location in the state.
(a)
Registration and the assessment of an occupation tax is hereby imposed on those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location or office in the state if the business or practitioner's largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed in the county and the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the unincorporated part of the county for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located in the unincorporated part of the county.
(b)
If a business or practitioner subject to this section provides to the county code enforcement officer proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business' or practitioner's sales or services in this state, the business or practitioner shall be exempt from local occupation tax in this state.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 5)
Sec. 22-36. - Each line of business to be identified on business registration.
The business registration of each business operated in the county shall identify the line of business that the business conducts.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 6)
Sec. 22-37. - Number of business locations considered operating in county.
Where a person conducts business at more than one fixed location, each location or place shall be considered a separate business for the purpose of occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 7)
Sec. 22-38. - Professionals as classified by state law.
Practitioners of professions as described in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c)(1)—(18) shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax based on number of employees as set forth in section 22-34.
(2)
A fee of $200.00 per practitioner who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location; provided, however, that a practitioner paying according to this subsection (2) shall not be required to provide information to the local government relating to number of employees. The per-practitioner fee applies to each person in the business who qualifies as a practitioner under the state's regulatory guidelines and framework.
This election is to be made on an annual basis and must be done by March 1 of each year.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 8)
Sec. 22-39. - Practitioners exclusively practicing for the government.
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, instrumentalities of the United States, the state or municipality or county of the state, shall not be required to obtain a license or pay an occupation tax for that practice.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 9)
Sec. 22-40. - Purpose and scope of tax.
The occupation tax levied in this article is for revenue purposes only and is not for regulatory purposes, nor is the payment of the tax made a condition precedent to the practice of any such profession, trade or calling. The occupation tax only applies to those businesses and occupations which are covered by the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-5—48-13-26. All other applicable businesses and occupations are taxed by the local government pursuant to the pertinent general and/or local law and ordinance.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 10)
Sec. 22-41. - When tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each occupation tax shall be for the calendar year 1995 and succeeding calendar years thereafter unless otherwise specifically provided. The registration and occupation tax shall be payable January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 of each year, subject to penalties for delinquency of 1½ percent per month. The same penalty shall apply to any regulatory fees which are required under this article. On any new profession, trade or calling begun in the unincorporated area of the county in 1995 or succeeding years thereafter, the registration and tax shall be delinquent if not obtained immediately upon beginning business. The tax registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the county code enforcement officer for the county, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the registration or occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of profession, trade or calling in this article specified without having first obtained said registration, such offender shall, upon the conviction of the city or county judge, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00, or imprisonment not to exceed ten days, either or both in the discretion of the magistrates court judge.
(b)
Businesses beginning operations after July 1 of each year shall pay 50 percent of the taxes and regulatory fees which would otherwise be due for that business. Business beginning operations before July 1 shall pay the full tax and regulatory fees required by this article.
(c)
In addition to the remedies in this section, the marshal may proceed to collect in the same manner as provided by law for tax executions.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 11)
Sec. 22-42. - Allocation of employees of business with multiple intrastate or interstate locations.
(a)
For those businesses who have multiple locations inside and outside of the county where the gross receipts can be allocated to each location, the gross receipts shall be attributed to each county location. In the case where the dollar amount of gross receipts attributed locally cannot be determined in those businesses with multiple locations, the total gross receipts will be divided by the total number of locations in the county and elsewhere and allotted to those locations. Upon request, the business or practitioner with a location or office situated in more than one jurisdiction shall provide to the county the following:
(1)
Financial information necessary to allocate the gross receipts of the business or practitioner; and
(2)
Information relating to the allocation of the business' or practitioner's gross receipts by other local governments.
(b)
Where the business has locations outside of the city and taxation is levied for criteria other than gross receipts in the other local governments, the city shall not assess more than the allotted share of gross receipts for the local operation.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 12)
Sec. 22-43. - Exemption on grounds that business operated for charitable purpose.
No business on which a business registration or occupation tax is levied by this article shall be exempt from the registration or tax on the ground that such business is operated for a charitable purpose unless 50 percent or more of the entire proceeds from the business are devoted to such purpose.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 13)
Sec. 22-44. - Evidence of state registration required if applicable; state registration to be displayed.
(a)
Each person who is licensed by the secretary of state pursuant to O.C.G.A. title 43 shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before the county registration may be issued.
(b)
Each person who is licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 14)
Sec. 22-45. - Evidence of qualification required if applicable.
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory manner shall first, before the issuance of a county business registration, show evidence of such qualification.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 15)
Sec. 22-46. - Liability of officers and agents; registration required; failure to obtain.
All persons subject to the occupation tax levy pursuant to this article shall be required to obtain the necessary registration for the business as described in this article, and in default thereof the officer or agent soliciting for or representing such persons shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons who fail to obtain a registration. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall likewise obtain the registration provided for in this article before commencing the business; and any person transacting, or offering to transact in the county any of the kinds of business, trade, profession or occupation without first having so obtained the registration, shall be subject to penalties provided therefor.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 16)
Sec. 22-47. - When registration and tax due and payable; effect of transacting business when tax delinquent.
(a)
Each registration shall be for the calendar year in which the registration was obtained unless otherwise specifically provided. There is imposed a penalty upon each business which fails to apply for and obtain an appropriate business registration and pay all taxes and fees as provided in this article before March 1 of each year, on the second day of March of each year hereafter. Every person commencing business in the county after January 1 of each year shall obtain the registration required before commencing such business. Any person transacting or offering to transact in the county any business, trade, profession or occupation without first having obtained the registration shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article. The penalties shall be in addition to all other penalties, civil and criminal provided in this article; and may be collected by the remedies herein provided in this article for collection of the occupation tax, and shall have the same lien and priority as the occupation tax to which the penalty is applied.
(b)
The registration provided for in this article shall be issued by the county code enforcement officer, and if any person whose duty it is to obtain a registration shall, after the occupation tax becomes delinquent, transact or offer to transact, in the county, any of the kind of business, trade, profession or occupation without having first obtained the registration, such offender shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 17)
Sec. 22-48. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the judge of the county magistrates court or such other court as may then have jurisdiction of the matter, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 18)
Sec. 22-49. - Code enforcement officer; subpoena and arresting powers.
The code enforcement officer or his designee and his duly designated officers and inspectors or its successors shall be classified as deputy marshal business inspector with full subpoena and arresting powers in conjunction with any violation pertaining to this article and succeeding years thereafter.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 19)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 22-50. - Businesses not covered by this article.
The following businesses are not covered by the provisions of this article but may be assessed an occupation tax or other type of tax pursuant to the provisions of other general laws of the state or by act of local law:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under chapter 3 of title 46 of the O.C.G.A.(O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.)
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including agribusiness.
(4)
Cooperative marketing associations governed by O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(5)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-89-8 et seq.
(6)
Motor common carriers governed by O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(7)
Those businesses governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(8)
Agricultural products and livestock raised in the state governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356.
(9)
Depository financial institutions governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(10)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 20)
Sec. 22-51. - Occupation tax inapplicable where prohibited by law or provided for pursuant to other existing law.
An occupation tax shall not apply to the gross receipts of any part of a business where such levy is prohibited or exempted by the laws of the state or of the United States.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 21)
Sec. 22-52. - Payment of occupation tax by newly established businesses.
In the case of a business subject to occupation tax for a calendar year, which was not conducted for any period of time in the unincorporated area of the county in the preceding year, the owner, proprietor, manager or executive officer of the business liable for occupation tax shall estimate the number of fulltime employees.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 22)
Sec. 22-53. - More than one place or line of business.
Where a business is operated at more than one place or where the business includes more than one line, the number of employees working at each location will be entered on a separate occupation tax return and each different line of business will have the number of employees of that line of business identified on a form to be furnished by the code enforcement office.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 24)
Sec. 22-54. - Returns confidential.
Except in the case of judicial proceedings or other proceedings necessary to collect the occupation tax hereby levied, it shall be unlawful for any officer, employee, agent or clerk of the county or any other person to divulge or make known in any manner any particulars set forth or disclosed in any occupation tax return required under this article. All contents of the return shall be confidential and open only to the officials, employees, agents or clerks of the city using the returns for the purpose of this occupation tax levy and the collection of the tax. Independent auditors or bookkeepers employed by the county shall be classed as "employees." Nothing in this article shall be construed to prohibit the publication by county officials of statistics, so classified as to prevent the identification of particular reports or returns and items thereof, or the inspection of the records by duly qualified employees of the tax departments of the state or of the United States, and other local governments. Information provided to the county by a business or practitioner of an occupation or profession for the purpose of determining the amount of an occupation tax for the business or practitioner may be disclosed to the governing authority of another local government for an occupation tax purpose or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collection of an occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay an occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 25)
Sec. 22-55. - Inspections of books and records.
In any case the code enforcement officer of the county, through its officers, agents, employees or representatives, may inspect the books of the business for which the returns are made. The revenue collection officer shall have the right to inspect the books or records for the business of which the return was made in the county, and upon demand of the code enforcement officer such books or records shall be submitted for inspection by a representative of the county within 30 days. The code enforcement officer of the county, through its officers, agents, employees or representatives, may also inspect or require the production of information from businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations doing business within the corporate limits regarding the site of any location or office and payment of occupation taxes or regulatory fees to other local governments. Failure of submission of such books or records within 30 days shall be grounds for revocation of the tax registration currently existing to do business in the county. Adequate records shall be kept in the county, for examination by the code enforcement officer at his discretion. If, after examination of the books or records, it is determined that a deficiency occurs as a result of underreporting, a penalty of 125 percent of the prime interest rate times the amount deficient will be assessed for the period delinquent. For purposes of this section, the prime interest rate shall be that which is published by The Wall Street Journal on the first business day of the year in which the underreporting is identified.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 26)
Sec. 22-56. - Tax registration to be revoked for failure to pay tax, file returns or permit inspection of books.
Upon the failure of any business to pay the occupation tax or any part thereof before it becomes delinquent, or upon failure to make a true return, or upon failure to amend a return to set forth the truth, or upon failure to permit inspection of its books as provided in section 22-55, any business tax registration granted by the county under this article permitting the owner of the business to do business in the city for the current year shall be, ipso facto, revoked. No new business tax registration shall be granted by the county for the operation of a business for which any part of the occupation tax provided for in this article is at that time unpaid, or to an individual, firm or corporation who has failed to submit adequate records as requested by the code enforcement officer in accordance with provisions found in section 22-55. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct its business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of a delinquent occupation tax.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 27)
Sec. 22-57. - Effect of failure to comply with article provisions; continuing in business after tax registration revocation.
Any person, their managers, agents or employees, who do business in the county after the registration for the business has been revoked, or who shall make false returns, and any persons, their managers, agents or employees who refuse to permit an inspection of books in their charge when the officers, agents, employees or representatives of the county request such inspection, during business hours, for the purpose of determining the accuracy of the returns provided for in this article, shall be subject to penalties provided in this article. In the case of those practitioners where the local government cannot suspend the right of the practitioner to conduct its business, the imposition of civil penalties shall be permitted and pursued by the local government in the case of delinquent occupation tax. These penalties may consist of either 25 percent of the amount due or a flat fee fine of $100.00, whichever is greater.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 28)
Sec. 22-58. - Execution for delinquent occupation tax.
In addition to the other remedies provided in this article for the collection of the occupation tax levied, the county code enforcement officer, upon any tax or installment of the tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of the tax against the persons, partnership or corporation liable for the tax, which execution shall bear interest at the rate then provided by law on civil judgments on which executions are issued. This interest shall run from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover the property in the county (both incorporated and unincorporated sections of the county) of the person liable for the tax, all as provided by the ordinances and legislation establishing the county and the laws of the state. The lien of the occupation tax shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the code enforcement officer of the county upon the property of the defendant located in the county, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, with interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be had as are provided by ordinances and charter of the county and the laws of the state, and the defendant in the execution shall have rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, which are provided by the charter of the county and the laws of Georgia in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by proper authority upon an execution issued by the code enforcement officer against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issued pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of the taxes.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 29)
Sec. 22-59. - Amendment; repeal of provision.
This article shall be subject to amendment or repeal, in whole or in part, at any time, and no such amendment or repeal shall be construed to deny the right of the county commission to assess and collect any of the taxes or other charges prescribed. The amendment may increase or lower the amounts and tax rates of any occupation and may change the classification thereof. The payment of any occupation tax provided for shall not be construed as prohibiting the levy or collection by the county of additional occupation taxes upon the same person, property or business.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 30)
Sec. 22-60. - Application of provisions to prior ordinance.
This article does not repeal or affect the force of any part of any ordinance heretofore passed where taxes levied under such prior ordinance have not been paid in full. So much and such parts of ordinances heretofore and hereinafter passed as provided for the issuing and enforcing of execution for any tax or assessment required by such ordinances, or that imposed fines or penalties for the nonpayment of such tax, or for failure to pay regulatory fees provided for in the ordinance, or failure to comply with any other provisions hereof, shall continue and remain in force until such tax, regulatory fee or assessment shall be fully paid.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 31)
Sec. 22-61. - Enforcement of provision.
It is hereby made the duty of the county code enforcement officer and sheriff's department to see that the provisions of this article relating to occupation taxes are observed; and to summon all violators of this article to appear before the magistrates court of the county. It is hereby made the further duty of the county code enforcement officer, sheriff, members of the sheriff's department, and their assistants, to inspect all registrations issued by the county, as often as in their judgment it may seem necessary to determine whether the registration held is the proper one for the business sought to be transacted thereunder.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 32)
Sec. 22-62. - Provisions to remain in full force and effect until changed by commission.
This article shall remain in full force and effect until changed by amendment adopted by the commission. All provisions hereto relating to any form of tax levied in this article shall remain in full force and effect until such taxes have been paid in full.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 33)
Sec. 22-63. - Requirement of public hearing before tax increase.
After January 1, 1995, the county commission shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the rate of occupation tax as set forth in this article.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 34)
Sec. 22-64. - Public hearings in years in which tax revenues increase.
In any year when revenue from occupation taxes is greater than revenue from occupation taxes for the preceding year for a local government, the local government shall hold one or more public hearings as a part of the process of determining how to use the additional revenue.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 35)
Sec. 22-65. - Option to establish exemption or reduction in occupation tax.
The commission may by subsequent ordinance or resolution provide for an exemption or reduction in occupation tax to one or more types of businesses or practitioners of occupations or professions as part of a plan for economic development or attracting or encouraging selected types of businesses or practitioners of selected occupations or professions. Such exemptions or reductions in occupation tax shall not be arbitrary or capricious and the reasons shall be set forth in the minutes of the county commission.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 36)
Sec. 22-66. - Conflicts between specific and general provisions.
Where there is an apparent conflict in this article between specific and general provisions, it is the intention hereof that the specific shall control.
(Ord. of 12-31-1995, § 37)
Secs. 22-67—22-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 22-86. - Financial institutions business license tax.
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93, there is hereby levied for the year 1984, and for each year thereafter, an annual business license tax upon all depository financial institutions located within the county at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts of said depository financial institutions. The term "gross receipts" shall mean gross receipts as defined in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93. The term "depository financial institutions" shall mean state and national banks, state building and loan associations, and federal savings and loan associations.
(Res. of 10-19-1983, § 1)
Sec. 22-87. - Minimum business license tax.
The minimum annual amount of business license tax due from any depository financial institution pursuant to section 22-86 shall be $1,000.00.
(Res. of 10-19-1983, § 2)
Sec. 22-88. - Filing of return.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(c), each depository financial institution subject to this tax shall file a return of its gross receipts with the county board of commissioners on March 1 of the year following the year in which such gross receipts are measured. Said return shall be in the manner and in the form prescribed by the commissioner of the department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d). The county board of commissioners shall assess and collect the tax levied pursuant to this article based upon the information provided in said return.
(Res. of 10-19-1983, § 3)
Sec. 22-89. - Due date of taxes.
Taxes levied pursuant to this article shall be due no later than 30 days after filing of the return prescribed by section 22-88 unless extended by the board of commissioners.
(Res. of 10-19-1983, § 4)
Sec. 22-90. - Administrative provisions.
The county clerk is hereby directed to forward a copy of this article to each depository financial institution in the county and to the home office of each such depository financial institution if located outside the county.
(Res. of 10-19-1983, § 5)
Secs. 22-91—22-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BODY ART

Sec. 22-101. - Authority.
The legal authority for this article is Chapter 31-40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. (O.C G A sections 31-40-1, 31-40-2, 31-40-3, 31-40-4, 31-40-5, 31-40-6, 31-40-7, 31-40-8, 31-40-9, 31-40-10 and chapter 31-5).
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § I )
Sec. 22-102. - Purpose.
The purpose of these rules and regulations is to establish reasonable standards for individuals performing body art procedures and for the facilities from which the procedures are provided If followed, such standards should ensure the health and safety of all individuals performing and receiving these services. They also provide for the regular inspection of establishments wherein body art activities are to be performed and contain enforcement provisions including but not limited to revocation of the registration or licensure of any person or establishment deemed in violation of these rules and regulations or any promulgated hereunder. These rules and regulations provide for an annual inspection fee to be paid by persons and by establishments registered under these rules and regulations This fee is intended to help defray the cost to the Baldwin County Board of Health of the administration for the requirements of these rules and regulations.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § II )
Sec. 22-103. - Exemptions.
These regulations do not apply to a physician or osteopath licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43, or a technician acting under the direct supervision of such licensed physician or osteopath. Exemptions may include cosmetic reconstructive surgery or procedures performed under the direct supervision of a physician or osteopath licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43, or a technician acting under the direct supervision of such licensed physician or osteopath.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § III )
Sec. 22-104. - Definitions.
[The following, words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Administrative body means the partnership, corporation, association, or the person or group of persons who maintain and control the body art studio and personnel, and who are legally responsible for the operation of the studio.
Antibacterial ointment means topical antibiotics that destroy or suppress the growth or reproduction of bacteria available in a semisolid preparation (water-in-oil) that are generally occlusive (preventing the escape of moisture) and somewhat difficult to remove from the skin once applied, approved for application to human skin and includes all products labeled accordingly as approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Antimicrobial solution means any solution capable of killing or used to retard the growth of microorganisms approved for application to human skin and includes all products labeled accordingly as approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA); when referring to antimicrobial mouthwash, only those approved for use will be allowed in the facility such as chlorhexidine, hydrogen peroxide, alcohol and others commonly found in hospital or dental settings.
Antiseptic means an agent or substance that will destroy or inhibit the growth and development of infectious microorganisms on human skin or mucous membranes
Applicant means any person who applies for a body art license, guest body art license, artist apprentice license, body art establishment permit, or temporary body art establishment permit.
Apprentice means an individual, over the age of 17, undergoing an extended period of piercer or tattooer training under the direction of a qualified, skilled, and experienced mentor (professional) within a studio environment, to serve as an apprentice
Approval means written approval from the health authority indicating that the body art establishment has been inspected and meets all terms of the applicable rules.
Approved means being accepted by the health authority as appropriate under applicable laws and regulations.
Aseptic technique means to render or maintain free from infectious material so as to prevent transfer or transmission of infectious agents.
ANSI means the American National Standards Institute.
ASTM means the American Society for Testing Materials International.
Autoclave means an apparatus for sterilization utilizing steam pressure at a specific temperature over a period of time per manufacturer's specifications. For the purpose of this rule, autoclaves will be Class B medical grade only.
Biomedical waste shall mean and include the following
(1)
Pathological waste, which means all recognizable human tissues which are removed during procedures;
(2)
Biological waste which means blood and blood products, exudates secretions, suctioning, and other body fluids which contain free liquids and cannot be or are not directly discarded into a municipal or on-site sewer system;
(3)
Sharps which mean any discarded article that may cause punctures or cuts Such waste includes but is not limited to items such as needles, IV tubing and syringes with needles attached, and scalpel blades;
(4)
Other miscellaneous medical equipment, including but not limited to, masks, gloves, gowns, empty IV tubings, vials, etc.;
(5)
Discarded medical equipment and parts, excluding expendable supplies and materials included in paragraphs (1)—(4) above.
Blood means human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Blood borne pathogens means pathogenic microorganisms present in human blood that can cause disease in humans These pathogens include but are not limited to Hepatitis B virus (HBV), Hepatitis C virus (HCV), and Human Immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Board of health means the Local Baldwin County Board of Health.
Body art means the practice of physical body adornment by means of tattooing or body piercing This definition does not include practices considered medical procedures by the Georgia Medical Composite Board such as implants under the skin which are prohibited unless such medical procedures are performed by a person licensed by the Georgia Medical Composite Board.
Body art advisory committee means a group of people that determine the approvals of the body art professionals and apprenticeships and oversee the apprenticeship process. The committee consists of one public health nurse, one environmental health specialist, one professional body piercer, one professional tattoo artist, and the district environmental health director (DEHD). Positions may have one designated alternate and will rotate off after four years of service on the committee with the exception of the DEHD.
Body art establishment or body art studio means any permanent building or structure on a permanent foundation, holding a valid city or county business license, if applicable, and permit from the Baldwin County Board of Health where the practices of body art are performed whether or not for profit.
Body art establishment permit or permit means the issuance of a written permit by the health authority to a body art establishment stating that such establishment, after inspection, was found to be in compliance with these regulations.
Body artist means a person at least 18 years of age who performs tattooing or body piercing and who is responsible for complying with applicable provisions of these regulations.
Body art license shall mean a license issued by the health authority to a specifically identified person who is qualified to engage in the practice of body art in accordance with these regulations and in conjunction with a permitted establishment.
Body art regulation shall mean the rules, regulations and guidelines promulgated by the board of health pursuant to O.C.G A § 31-40 as amended from time to time.
Body piercer means a person at least 18 years of age who engages in the practice of body piercing regardless of the type of body ornament utilized or body area to be pierced and who is responsible for complying with applicable provisions of these regulations.
Body piercing means puncturing or penetrating the skin or mucosa of a client utilizing a single-use, sterile needle or other sterile instrument for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other adornment into the body for non-medical purposes; body piercing includes ear piercing, except when the ear piercing procedure is performed on the ear lobe with an ear piercing gun using sterile materials.
Body piercing establishment means any permanent building or structure on a permanent foundation holding a valid city or county business license, if applicable, and permit from the Baldwin County Board of Health where body piercing is performed, including any area under the control of the operator.
Business means any entity that provides body art services or procedures for compensation.
Cleaning/clean room shall mean the area in a body art establishment used in the sterilization, sanitation or other cleaning of instruments or other equipment used for the practice of body art and shall be separated from any other area in the facility by means of doors, nonabsorbent curtains, or similar approved partition extending from floor to ceiling or a height of ten feet.
Client or customer shall mean an individual upon whom one or more body art activities are to be performed.
Contaminated means the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood, other potentially infectious materials, or potentially harmful chemicals on an item or surface.
Contaminated waste shall mean any liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious material; contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious material in a liquid or semi-liquid state if compressed, items on which there is dried blood or other potentially infectious material and which are capable of releasing these materials during handling, sharps and any wastes containing blood or other potentially infectious materials, as defined in thed O.C.G.A.
Convention means a large meeting of people who come to a place for usually several days to talk about their shared work or other interests or to make decisions as a group, i.e. industry trade show.
County means the Local Baldwin County Board of Health or its duly authorized representatives.
Critical violation(s) means those aspects of operation or conditions which, if in violation, constitute the greatest hazards to health and safety, including imminent health hazards Critical violations shall include the following:
(1)
Autoclave does not meet minimum time, pressure or temperature requirements or written emergency procedures are not established or approved by the health authority;
(2)
Lack of a monthly negative spore or microbiological monitoring test for quality control;
(3)
Non-disposable tubes and needles are not sterilized or were sterilized greater than one year ago;
(4)
Work area is not equipped as required or is not stocked;
(5)
Reuse of single-use articles;
(6)
Sterile instruments are not properly handled;
(7)
Reusable instruments are not handled properly;
(8)
Employees with infectious lesions on hands not restricted from body art procedures;
(9)
Employees not practicing proper cleanliness and good hygienic practices;
(10)
Water supply not approved or hot and cold running water under pressure not available (or written emergency procedure for water not established/approved);
(11)
Cross connection allowing back-siphonage present in plumbing system;
(12)
Toilet and/or hand washing facilities not available for employees;
(13)
Toxic items not properly stored, labeled, or used.
Decontamination means the use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy blood borne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or disposal.
Department means the Georgia Department of Public Health or its agents.
Disinfectant means a solution registered as a disinfectant by the U S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and intended to destroy or inactivate specific viruses, bacteria, or fungi on clean, inanimate surfaces. Labeling should specifically state that the product is bactericidal, virucidal, fungicidal, and tuberculocidal
Disinfection means the destruction of disease-causing microorganisms on inanimate objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects safe for use or handling.
Ear piercing means the puncturing of the outer ear for non-medical purposes.
Easily cleanable means that surfaces are readily accessible and made of such materials and finish and so fabricated to be smooth, non-absorbent and so that residue may be effectively removed by normal cleaning methods.
EPA means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
Equipment means all machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools, devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks, and all other apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art establishment.
FDA means the United States Food and Drug Administration.
Germicidal solution means any solution which destroys microorganisms and is so labeled.
Gloves means medical grade disposable single use gloves labeled for surgical or examination purposes. Vinyl gloves are not allowed in body art facilities.
Guest body artist shall mean a visiting body artist possessing a guest body art license issued by the health authority to perform body art.
Guest body art license means the issuance of a seven-day license by the health authority Such license will allow a person to practice body art in accordance with the body art regulations under the direct supervision of a body artist holding a valid body art license issued by the health authority.
Hand sanitizer means an alcohol-based hand rub that contains at least 60 percent alcohol used in conjunction with soap and water for the routine decontamination of hands.
Health authority means the local board of health and/or its authorized representatives such as a health officer/inspector.
Health officer/inspector means an official appointed by the board of health who is responsible for licensing, permitting, and inspection of body art establishments (i.e. health authority).
Hot water means water that attains and maintains a minimum temperature of 110°F.
Imminent health hazard means any condition, deficiency, or practice, as discovered by the health authority which, if not corrected, is very likely to result in disease transmission, injury, or loss of life to any person. If an imminent health hazard exists because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, interruption of electrical or water service for two) or more hours, sewage malfunction, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an apparent blood borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary occurrence or condition, or other circumstances that may endanger public health, then operations are immediately discontinued and the health authority is notified.
Instruments means hand pieces, needles, needle bars, and other instruments that may come in ontact with a client's body or may be exposed to bodily fluids during any body art procedure.
ISO means the International Standards Organization.
Jewelry means any ornament used in any body art procedure which is inserted into a newly pierced area and meets the following minimum Association of Professional Piercers standards (adopted February 5, 2009 or subsequent adoptions):
(1)
Steel that is ASTM F-138 compliant or ISO 5832-1 compliant;
(2)
Steel that is ISO 10993-6, 10993-10, and/or 10993-11 compliant (EEC Nickel Directive compliant;
(3)
Titanium (Ti6A/4V EL1) that is ASTM F-136 compliant or ISO 5832-3 compliant;
(4)
Titanium that is ASTM-67 compliant;
(5)
Solid 14 karat gold or higher, nickel-free white or yellow gold (purity verification must be available for inspection upon request);
(6)
Solid nickel-free platinum alloy;
(7)
Niobium (Nb);
(8)
Fused quartz glass, lead-free borosilicate or lead-free soda-lime glass;
(9)
Polymers (plastics) as follows:
•
Tygon Medical Surgical Tubing S-50HL or S-54HL;
•
Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) that is ASTM F754-00 compliant;
•
Any plastic material that is ISO 10993-6, 10993-10 and/or 10993-11 compliant and/or meets the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) Class VI material classification.
(10)
All threaded or press-fit jewelry must have internal tapping (no threads on posts);
(11)
For body jewelry purposes, surfaces and ends must be smooth, free of nicks, scratches, burrs and polishing compounds, metals must have a consistent mirror finish.
Copies of the jewelry manufacturer's documentation, which verify compliance with standards, must be available for inspection on request.
Lavatory facilities means a lavatory providing an adequate supply of potable hot and cold running water under pressure, used solely for washing hands, arms, or other portions of the body. The facility shall include a soap dispenser, soap, and single use disposable towels in a covered dispenser.
Law means any applicable provision of the State of Georgia statutes and rules of any department or agency.
License shall mean a document issued by the health authority pursuant to this body art regulation authorizing an individual to conduct allowed body art procedures.
Microbiological monitoring for quality control means the use of a standard spore, to challenge the sterilization process.
Minor means an individual under the age of 18.
NSF means the National Sanitation Foundation.
Occupational exposure means a specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials resulting from the performance of an employee's activities.
Operator/owner means any person, firm, company, corporation or association that owns, controls, operates, conducts, or manages a body art establishment.
OSHA means the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Other potentially infectious material means the following human body fluids: semen, vaginal secretions, saliva, and any other body fluid visibly contaminated with blood.
Parenteral means piercing mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such events as needle sticks and piercings.
Permit means health authority approval in writing authorizing the administrative body to operate a body art establishment for the purpose of engaging in the practice or business of body art procedures health authority approval shall be granted solely for the practice of body art pursuant to these regulations.
Person means an individual, any form of business or social organization or any other non-governmental legal entity, including but not limited to corporations, partnerships, limited-liability companies, associations, trusts or unincorporated organizations.
Personal protective equipment means specialized clothing or equipment, such as gloves or lap cloth, worn by an employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes not intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered to be personal protective equipment.
Personnel means the permit holder, any person who performs body art, individuals having supervisory or management duties, or any other person employed or working in a body art establishment. This individual may or may not be a body artist.
Physician or osteopath means an individual licensed to practice medicine in Georgia.
Pierce or piercing means body piercing (see definition of "body piercing").
Potable water means water that is from an approved water system meeting Georgia Safe Drinking Water Standards that is safe for drinking.
Premises means the physical location of an establishment which offers and performs body art procedures.
Professional means a person approved by the body art advisory committee to oversee apprenticeships in body art establishments. A piercing professional oversees piercing apprenticeships only. A tattoo professional oversees tattoo apprenticeships only.
Proof of age means a driver's license or other generally accepted means of identification that describes the individual as 16 or 18 years of age or older as applicable, contains a photograph, and appears to be valid.
Registration means license or permit as applicable to each entity.
Safe materials means articles manufactured for the specific purpose of body art procedures which are unlikely to cause injury or disease under proper use and care.
Sanitary means clean and free of agents of infection or disease.
Sanitized means the application of a U. S. EPA registered sanitizer on a cleaned surface by a process that provides sufficient concentration of chemicals for enough time to reduce the microorganism level, including pathogens, to a safe level on utensils and equipment in accordance with the label instructions.
Sewage means human excreta, all water-carried waste, and wastes from residences, buildings, or commercial and industrial establishments.
Sharps means any object, sterile or contaminated, that may intentionally or accidentally cut or penetrate the skin or mucosa.
Sharps container means a puncture-resistant, leak-proof container that can be closed for handling, storage, transportation, and disposal that is labeled with the International Biohazard Symbol; specifically made for the disposal of sharps; required and regulated by OSHA.
Single-use means disposable products or items that are intended for one-time, one-person use and are properly disposed of by appropriate measures after use on each client. Single-use items include but are not limited to cotton swabs or balls, single-use instruments, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups, gauze and sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, stencils, ink cups, and protective gloves. May also be defined as single-service.
Solid waste means refuse, garbage, trash, rubbish, and any other item(s) which could cause an unsanitary condition or undesirable health and safety conditions.
Spore means a dormant, non-reproductive body able to survive adverse environmental conditions including high temperatures, dryness, and lack of nourishment for long periods of time. Under the proper conditions, the spore may revert to an actively multiplying form of the bacteria, fungi, or protozoa.
Spore test means a biological monitoring process in which resistant spore growth on test media is process in a studio's autoclave to verify that it is functioning properly. A third party culturing service must be engaged for this process to provide documentation serving as a tangible record and legal document verifying the autoclave's ability to achieve property sterilization.
Sterilization or sterilize means the use of a physical or chemical procedure by which all forms of microbial life, including bacteria, viruses, spores, and fungi are destroyed including highly resistant bacterial endospores. This is achieved by holding in a commercial, Class B autoclave according to manufacturer's instructions as approved by the health authority.
Sterilized indicator means a tape, strip, bag, or other device designed to change color to indicate that sterilization temperature has been achieved during the sterilization procedure.
Sterilizer means an autoclave certified to meet generally accepted medical standards.
Tattoo means to mark or color the skin of any person by pricking in, inserting, or implanting pigments to include cosmetic micropigmentation, except when performed by a physician licensed as such pursuant to O.C.G.A. Chapter 34 of Title 43.
Tattoo artist means a person at least 18 years of age who engages in the practice/service of tattooing regardless of the type of tattoo or area to be tattooed.
Tattoo establishment, tattoo parlor, tattoo studio means any permanent building or structure on a fixed foundation, holding a valid city or county business license, if applicable, and permit from the Baldwin County Board of Health, where tattooing is performed, including any area under the control of the operator.
Temporary body art establishment shall mean any location, place, facility or business, whereby an operator has been granted a permit to practice body art by the health authority for no more than a period of seven consecutive days only for the purpose of product demonstration in connection with conventions or industry trade shows.
Ultrasonic cleaning unit means a unit approved by the health authority with a lid, physically large enough to fully submerge instruments in liquid, which removes all foreign matter from the instruments by means of high energy and high frequency oscillations transmitted through the contained liquid.
Universal precautions means treating all blood and body fluids as if they contain blood borne pathogens and taking proper precautions to prevent the spread of any blood borne pathogens.
Utensil means any implement, tool, or other similar device used in the storage, preparation, operation, or processing of body art.
Violation correction means a plan for correcting deficiencies in meeting these rules and regulations of the local board of health.
Waste means solid waste, sewage, blood and body fluids or other waste resulting from the operation of a body art studio.
Work area, work station means an area where clients receive body art.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § IV )
Sec. 22-105. - Administrative body.
(a)
The administrative body shall be responsible for compliance with the requirements in Chapter 31-40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, with applicable administrative rules and regulations of the Baldwin County Board of Health, including but not limited to all applicable statutes, rules and regulations regarding disclosure of ownership.
(b)
The administrative body shall certify in its application the name(s) and exact duties of employees/artists who have been designated as being responsible for carrying out the rules and policies adopted by the administrative body. The following information shall be included. Social Security number or valid driver's license, date of birth, gender, home address, home/work phone numbers, identification photos of all operators/technicians.
(c)
Prior to being granted a permit, each body art studio shall develop a written statement of policies and standard operating procedures including:
(1)
Sterilization;
(2)
Employee health;
(3)
Employee drug and alcohol use;
(4)
Sanitizing areas and equipment between clients;
(5)
Disposal of waste;
(6)
Record keeping;
(7)
Client screening;
(8)
Aftercare;
(9)
Emergency sterilization.
(d)
Prohibited facilities:
(1)
Neither body art studios nor body art procedures shall be allowed in the same structures or areas used for private residences, other structures used for human habitation, food services, retail sales, grocery stores, convenience stores, or similar locations, however, this does not prohibit body art operations in completely separate areas of certain businesses considered safe and appropriate by the environmental health specialist and his or her supervisor.
(2)
Body art studios shall not be allowed in automobiles, mobile, transitory or other non-fixed facilities Such non-fixed facilities include, but are not limited to, mobile trailers, tents, and recreational vehicles.
(e)
Prohibited procedures:
(1)
Implants, 3-D procedures or other procedures involving insertion of foreign objects completely under the skin are prohibited.
(2)
Any body art procedure that results in the permanent removal of tissue or requiring medical equipment (ex scalpels, dermal punches) shall be prohibited, except that a physician or osteopath licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43, or a technician acting under the direct supervision of such licensed physician or osteopath shall be authorized to perform such procedures.
(3)
Ear piercings involving cartilage may not be performed utilizing spring-loaded guns.
(4)
The following acts will be prohibited: scarification (branding, cutting, skin peeling,) suspension piercing, neck rings, foot binding, corseting, play piercing, surface/microdermal anchors.
(f)
Artists and facilities must meet all other applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations to include local, state, and federal prior to being permitted and while in operation.
(g)
Body artists shall not be under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs while performing body art procedures.
(h)
Operators shall refuse services to any person who is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
(i)
A body artist shall not provide service to any person who shows evidence of being mentally incapacitated.
(j)
Live animals shall be excluded from within the body art studio and from adjacent areas within the facility under the control of the permit holder. However, this exclusion does not apply to fish in clean, maintained aquariums which are maintained outside of an artist work area. Service animals accompanying disabled persons shall be permitted in the establishment.
(k)
A body artist shall not conduct any form of body art activity upon any area of a client that evidences the presence of any rash, lesion or other visible signs of infection.
(l)
Any future body art procedures not covered within these rules which have the potential for transmitting infectious disease must receive written departmental approval prior to being offered to customers or patrons.
(m)
Body art shall only be performed by currently licensed body artists, guest artists, or apprentices in a permitted body art establishment or temporary facility meeting the requirements of these regulations.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § V )
Sec. 22-106. - Minimum standards.
(a)
Each studio where body art procedures are administered shall provide work areas separate from observers or visitors body artists shall not perform body art procedures simultaneously on different clients in the same work area.
(b)
Work areas shall provide complete privacy for clients by means of doors, nonabsorbent curtains, or similar approved partitions that extend from floor to ceiling.
(c)
A body art establishment shall have a cleaning room to be used exclusively for the cleaning, disinfection, and sterilization of instruments.
(1)
The cleaning room shall have a separate ANSI-approved instrument sink or stainless steel sink reserved only for instrument disinfectant activities and shall be equipped with hot and cold running water.
(2)
The cleaning room shall be separated from any other area in the facility by means of doors, nonabsorbent curtains, or similar approved partition extending from floor to ceiling or a height of ten feet and must be labeled to prevent clients from entering the room.
(3)
The cleaning room shall be equipped with an ultrasonic cleaning unit and a medical grade autoclave The autoclave shall be used to sterilize all non-disposable and reusable body art equipment.
(4)
The instrument sink, ultrasonic cleaning unit, and autoclave shall each be separated by a minimum distance of 48 inches, unless using a splashguard approved by the health authority.
(5)
The cleaning room walls, floors, doors, windows, skylight, and other components shall be constructed of smooth, nonabsorbent, durable material and be maintained in good repair.
(d)
A hand washing sink shall be provided within each workstation. Hand wash sinks will also be made available in the cleaning rooms. These are in addition to the required sinks in toilet rooms. Facilities that are open and operating at the time these rules are implemented will be required to have one hand wash sink that is available by an unobstructed pathway within 30 feet of each work station not to include any hand wash sinks in toilet rooms.
(e)
Hand washing sinks and instrument sinks shall be used for those intended purposes only.
(f)
Mop sinks will be required upon new construction or renovation. After adoption of these rules, mop sinks will be required for any new facility or upon renovation to any existing facility or any major plumbing renovation that occurs. At least one mop sink/service sink or one curbed cleaning facility equipped with a floor drain shall be provided and conveniently located for the cleaning of mops or similar wet floor cleaning tools and trash cans as well as for the disposal of mop water and similar liquid waste.
(g)
The use of common towels and cloths is prohibited for any reason.
(h)
Sanitary facilities and controls.
(1)
Water supply.
a.
Enough potable water for the needs of the body art studio shall be provided from an approved source that is a public water system; or a nonpublic water system that is constructed, maintained and operated according to applicable state or local codes.
b.
Water from a public water system shall meet 40 CFR 141 — National Primary Drinking Water Regulations and state drinking water quality standards.
c.
Water from a nonpublic system shall meet state drinking water quality standards.
1.
Water from a nonpublic water system shall be sampled and tested at least annually for biological and chemical contaminants to ensure complaints with safe drinking water standards and quarterly as required by health authority water quality regulations.
2.
The most recent sample report for the nonpublic water system shall be retained on file in the body art establishment and a copy sent to the health department at the time received.
(2)
Sewage. All sewage, including liquid water, shall be disposed of by a public sewerage system or by an approved on-site sewage disposal system.
(3)
Plumbing. Plumbing shall be sized, installed, and maintained according to law. There shall be no cross-connection between the potable water supply and any other water supply or other possible source of contamination.
(i)
Toilet facilities.
(1)
There shall be a minimum of one restroom containing a toilet and a lavatory readily accessible to any body artist, client, or customer that does not require passage through a clean room and work area.
(2)
Toilet installation. Toilet facilities shall be designed, installed, and maintained according to law. Public access to toilet facilities shall not be through cleaning rooms or work areas with the exception that access through such areas will be allowed if the risk of contamination is determined to be minimal.
(3)
Toilet rooms. Toilet rooms opening directly into work or client waiting areas shall be completely enclosed and shall have tight-fitting, solid self-closing doors, which shall be closed except during cleaning or maintenance.
(4)
All toilet rooms shall have sufficient mechanical ventilation to keep them free of excessive heat, steam, condensation, vapors, obnoxious odors, smoke, and fumes.
(5)
Toilet fixtures. Toilet fixtures shall be kept clean and in good repair. A supply of toilet tissue shall be provided at each toilet at all times. Easily cleanable receptacles with trash liners shall be provided for waste materials. Toilet rooms shall have at least one covered waste receptacle.
(j)
Lavatory facilities.
(1)
Lavatory installation. Lavatory facilities shall be designed, installed, and maintained according to law. All lavatories that may be used for hand washing by employees shall be designed such that they are operable without use of hands.
(2)
Lavatory faucets. Each lavatory shall be provided with hot water at a temperature at least 100°F (38°C). Hot and cold water shall be tempered by means of a mixing valve or combination faucet. Any self-closing, slow-closing, or metering faucet used shall be designed to provide a flow of water for at least 20 seconds without the need to reactivate the faucet
(3)
Lavatory supplies. A soap dispenser and a supply of antiseptic, hand-cleaning soap or detergent shall be available at each lavatory. A fully covered or enclosed towel dispenser with a supply of single use sanitary towels shall be conveniently located near each lavatory. Easily cleanable covered waste receptacles shall be conveniently located near the hand washing facilities.
(4)
Lavatory maintenance. Lavatories, soap dispensers, paper towel dispensers, and all related fixtures shall be kept clean, in good repair, and supplied at all times.
(k)
Mop sinks. At least one mop sink or one curbed cleaning facility equipped with a floor drain shall be provided and conveniently located for the cleaning of mops or similar wet floor cleaning tools and trash cans and for the disposal of mop water and similar liquid waste in accordance with subsection 22-106(f).
(l)
Solid waste.
(1)
Non-biomedical waste containers.
a.
Garbage and refuse shall be kept in durable, easily cleaned containers that do not leak and do not absorb liquids.
b.
All outside refuse containers shall be covered and maintained.
c.
Containers used in work areas shall be kept covered when not in use and after they are filled. At least one covered/lidded waste receptacle shall be provided in each operator area. Receptacles in the body artist area shall be emptied daily and solid waste shall be removed from the premises at least weekly or more if necessary.
d.
There shall be a sufficient number of containers to hold all the garbage and refuse that accumulate.
(2)
Garbage and refuse shall be disposed of at such frequency to prevent the development of odor and the attraction of insects, rodents, or vermin.
(3)
Biomedical waste containment.
a.
Disposal of infectious waste such as blood, fluids, used inks, or other liquid waste may be deposited directly into a drain connected to an approved sewer system or on-site sewage system.
b.
Containment of biomedical waste shall be in a manner and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, does not provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and minimizes exposure to the public.
c.
Biomedical waste shall be segregated by separate containment from other waste at the point of origin.
d.
Biomedical waste, except for sharps, shall be placed in containers which are impervious to moisture and have strength sufficient to preclude ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of use. The containers shall be securely closed so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or liquid wastes during storage, handling, or transport.
e.
Sharps shall be contained for storage, transportation, treatment and subsequent disposal in leak-proof, rigid, puncture-resistant containers which are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of contents.
1.
Rigid containers of discarded sharps and all other disposable containers used for containment of biomedical waste shall be red or orange in color and clearly identified with the universal biohazard symbol or clearly marked with the word "Biohazard."
2.
Biomedical waste contained in disposable containers as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling, or transport in disposable or reusable pails, cartons, boxes, drums, or portable bins. The containment system shall have a tight fitting cover and be kept clean and in good repair. The containers may be of any color and shall be conspicuously labeled with the universal biohazard symbol and the word "Biohazard" on the sides so as to be readily visible from any lateral direction when the container is upright.
3.
Reusable containers used for shipment of biomedical waste shall be thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied. Reusable pails, drums, dumpsters or bins used for containment of biomedical waste shall not be used for other purposes.
4.
Container must be mounted at a height of 56 inches to 52 inches at a standing workstation, and 42 inches to 38 inches for a seated workstation.
(m)
The premises shall be kept in such condition as to prevent the entrance, harborage, or feeding of insects, rodents, or vermin.
(n)
Physical facilities, floors, walls, ceilings, and attached equipment. Floors, walls, ceilings, and attached equipment and decorative materials shall be kept clean and maintained in good repair.
(1)
Floors.
a.
Floors and floor coverings of all work areas, dressing rooms, locker rooms, toilet rooms and vestibules shall be constructed of smooth, nonabsorbent, hard durable material and maintained in good repair.
b.
The floor and wall juncture shall have coved joint installed.
c.
The floor and cove base/joint shall be properly sealed.
d.
Carpeting is allowed in the lobby area only and shall be of closely woven construction, properly installed, easily cleanable, and maintained in good repair.
(2)
Walls and ceilings.
a.
Maintenance. Walls and ceilings, including doors, windows, skylight, and similar closures shall be constructed of smooth, nonabsorbent, durable material and be maintained in good repair.
b.
Attachments. Light fixtures, vent covers, wall-mounted fans, and similar equipment attached to walls and ceilings shall be easily cleanable and maintained in good repair.
c.
Existing facilities may have ceilings that are exempted from requirements for smooth, nonabsorbent materials until such time as repair or extensive maintenance is required. At that time, materials must comply with this article.
(o)
Lighting.
(1)
Permanently fixed artificial light sources shall be installed to provide at least 50 foot candles of light on all work area surfaces and at equipment washing work levels.
(2)
Permanently fixed artificial light sources shall be installed to provide at a distance of 30 inches from the floor at least ten foot candles of light in all other areas.
(p)
Ventilation. All rooms shall have sufficient ventilation to keep them free of excessive heat, steam, condensation, vapors, obnoxious odors, smoke, and fumes.
(q)
Poisonous or toxic materials.
(1)
Materials permitted. There shall be present in the body art studio only those poisonous or toxic materials necessary for maintaining the establishment and cleaning or sanitizing equipment, as well as controlling insects and rodents.
(2)
Labeling of materials. Containers of poisonous or toxic materials shall be prominently and distinctly labeled according to law for easy identification of contents and approved for intended use.
(3)
Toxic items shall be separated from other materials used in body art procedures by way of a closed cabinet.
(4)
Spray bottles labeled with contents may be used for the purpose of cleaning but not for body art procedure preparation.
(r)
Premises.
(1)
Body art establishments shall be kept neat, clean, and free of litter and rubbish.
(2)
Only articles necessary for the operation and maintenance of the body art establishment shall be stored on or within the establishment. Lockers or other designated area will be provided for such personal items as purses, jackets, medications, etc.
(3)
Aisles and working spaces. Aisles and working spaces between units of equipment and walls shall be unobstructed and of sufficient width to permit employees to perform their duties readily without contamination of equipment or of operational surfaces by clothing or personal contact.
(s)
Equipment and utensils.
(1)
Materials.
a.
Multi-use equipment and utensils shall be constructed and repaired with safe materials, including finishing materials; they shall be corrosion-resistant and nonabsorbent; and they shall be smooth, easily cleanable, and durable under conditions of normal use. Single-service articles shall be made from clean, sanitary, and safe materials.
b.
Re-use of single-service articles is prohibited.
(2)
Design and fabrication.
a.
General. All equipment and utensils, including plastic ware, shall be designed and fabricated for durability under conditions of normal use and shall be resistant to denting, buckling, pitting, and chipping.
1.
Body art operational surfaces shall be easily cleanable, smooth, and free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, pits, and similar imperfections, as well as free of difficult to clean internal corners and crevices.
2.
Sinks and drain boards shall be self-draining
b.
Operational surfaces. Surfaces of equipment not intended as operational surfaces, but which are exposed to splash or debris or which otherwise require frequent cleaning, shall be designed and fabricated to be smooth, washable, free of unnecessary ledges, projections, or crevices and readily accessible for cleaning Such surfaces shall be of material and in such repair as to be easily maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
c.
Needles, needle assembly with bar, dyes, or pigments shall be designed and manufactured for the sole purpose of body art.
(t)
Minimum supplies of establishment. Each work station is to be equipped or stocked in the following manner:
(1)
Body tattooing establishments.
a.
A minimum of six commercially packaged single use presterilized needle assembly with bar and six sterilized needle tubes;
(2)
Body piercing establishments:
a.
A minimum of six commercially packaged single use presterilized needles, six sterilized needle tubes, six sterilized forceps, and six sterilized hemostats;
b.
A minimum of six single-use pens or equivalent instruments.
(3)
A minimum of four extra packages of disposable towels other than the package that is being used.
(4)
A minimum of three extra boxes of medical grade disposable gloves other than the box being used.
(5)
An extra supply of bandages, ointment or gel, and antimicrobial soap.
(u)
Temporary facilities shall meet the requirements of these regulations. In addition, the following will be required:
(1)
Hand washing facilities must be located within each work or demonstration area. In the absence of a hand wash station meeting the requirements of this article, the following will be allowed:
a.
Hand washing facilities shall consist of liquid antimicrobial hand soap, single-use paper towels and hot potable water dispensed from an insulated container that contains at least five gallons of potable water with a spigot that is raised a minimum of 25 inches off the floor.
(2)
Waste water shall be collected in a bucket that will hold at least five gallons of waste water placed on the floor under the spigot. Warm potable water shall be replenished and wastewater removed as necessary to the sanitary sewer system, or, in the absence thereof, in a manner approved by the department.
(v)
Only single-use, disposable, sterilized supplies can be used.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § VI )
Sec. 22-107. - Furnishings and fixtures.
(a)
Furnishings of the body art studio shall be maintained in good condition, intact, and functional. Furnishings should be made of or covered in a material that is easily cleanable and non-absorbent.
(b)
All surfaces in the work room that could potentially be contaminated during a procedure must be non-porous to allow for proper cleaning. This includes but is not limited to: work tables, chair mats and bases, shelving, and counters.
(c)
Work tables and chairs shall be provided for each body artist.
(1)
All exposed surfaces of all worktables and chairs shall be constructed of material, which is smooth, nonabsorbent, corrosive resistant, and easily sanitized.
(2)
All exposed surfaces of work tables and chairs shall be sanitized with an antimicrobial solution approved by the health authority after each use and between clients.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § VII )
Sec. 22-108. - Supplies.
(a)
Bulk single use articles shall be commercially packaged and handled to protect them from contamination These articles shall be stored in an area separate from the work area and toilet facilities.
(b)
All materials intended for single-use applied to the human skin shall be from single-use containers and shall be disposed of after each use.
(c)
Cabinets and closed, sealable containers for the storage of instruments, pigments, single use articles (ex., gloves, ink caps, carbon, stencils, etc.) shall be provided for each body artist and shall be maintained in a sanitary manner which protects them from contamination.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § VIII )
Sec. 22-109. - Personnel—Health and hygiene.
(a)
With the exception of a plain ring such as a wedding band, body artist jewelry on hands and wrists such as watches, rings, bracelets, etc., shall be removed prior to the start of the body art procedure.
(b)
Prior to the procedure, the artist shall inspect his/her hands for hangnails, small cuts, sores, and abrasions. If a cut, sore, or abrasion is detected, a bandage shall be applied for added protection before gloving. Trim fingernails to insure that gloves are not punctured. Recent tattoos or piercings in the healing process shall also be properly covered as to prevent any bodily fluid transfer.
(c)
Use aseptic technique. Thorough hand washing is essential after client contact, after handling blood and body fluids, after wearing gloves, and prior to exiting the work area.
(d)
The artist must thoroughly wash their hands in hot, running water with antibacterial soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels before and after performing body art procedures or anytime there is an interruption in body art procedure that requires the artist to remove and replace gloves. Use of hand sanitizers are recommended after each hand washing.
(e)
Medical grade, single-use, disposable latex or approved non-latex examination gloves shall be worn during the body art procedure. Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in the body art procedure, the gloves become torn or punctured, or whenever their ability to function is compromised Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be used on more than one individual. Vinyl gloves are not allowed.
(f)
A body artist shall maintain the highest degree of personal cleanliness, conform to standard hygienic practices, and wear clean clothes when performing body art procedures. Single-use aprons, smocks, or sleeve covers are acceptable. Open-toed shoes or shoes with holes shall not be permissible.
(g)
The skin of the artist shall be free of rash or infection. No artist affected with boils, infected wounds, open sores, abrasions, weeping dermatological lesions, fever, vomiting, diarrhea, or acute respiratory infection shall work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in which there is a likelihood that the individual could contaminate body art equipment, supplies, or working surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
(h)
Universal precautions, as defined in these rules, shall be observed to prevent contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials. All employees shall be trained in universal precautions and present documentation of yearly training upon request.
(1)
Assume all human blood, plasma, serum, body fluids (semen, saliva, breast milk, vaginal secretions and any fluid contaminated with blood) and tissues to be contaminated with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and/or Hepatitis viruses (e.g., HBV, HCV).
(2)
The most susceptible route of occupational infection for HIV, HBV, and HCV is by accidental needle sticks, but may include contamination of the mucous membranes, or through broken, abraded, or irritated skin. Use appropriate caution and maximum protection to prevent such contact.
(3)
Proper decontamination procedures, emergency biohazard spill management, and proper use of biosafety equipment shall be utilized.
(4)
Use aseptic technique. Thorough hand washing is essential after client contact, after handling blood and body fluids, after wearing gloves, and prior to exiting the work area.
(5)
Infectious material spills shall be cleaned using an EPA registered disinfectant and universal precautions.
(6)
Clean all work areas and equipment used in handling human biohazardous materials with an EPA-registered disinfectant when concluding work to protect personnel from accidental infection.
(7)
Eating, use of tobacco products, and applying cosmetics or lip balm are not permitted in the work area. Drinking will be allowed only when a single-use cup that has a secure lid and straw is used in a way as to prevent the contamination of the artist's hands.
(8)
All procedures shall be performed carefully to minimize the creation of aerosols.
(9)
Employees shall report all work related accidents, incidents, and unexplained illness to your supervisor and/or physician immediately
(10)
Soiled gloves shall be removed in a manner to minimize the risk of self-contamination or cross-contamination after each operation and prior to contacting work surfaces, door knobs, wall switches, or telephones Dispose of used gloves in a bagged trash container.
(11)
Food storage cabinets or refrigerators shall be located outside the work area.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § IX )
Sec. 22-110. - Sterilization.
(a)
An ultrasonic cleaning unit and operational medical-grade autoclave (Class B) shall be provided in each body art studio.
(b)
Ultrasonic cleaning units shall be clearly labeled "biohazardous" and shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation.
(c)
The ultrasonic cleaning unit and medical grade autoclave shall be used and maintained according to manufacturer's specifications. Each ultrasonic cleaning unit and medical-grade autoclave shall be emptied and thoroughly cleaned and disinfected per manufacturer's recommendations. Ultrasonic cleaning unit and autoclave maintenance records must be maintained for two years and be made available upon request.
(d)
Used non-disposable instruments shall be kept in a separate labeled, puncture-resistant container until cleaned The cleaning method shall include the following:
(1)
Instruments should be pre-scrubbed prior to being placed into an ultrasonic cleaning unit.
(2)
After removal from the ultrasonic cleaning unit, instruments should then be brush scrubbed in hot water and soap, then rinsed in clean water.
(3)
Prior to being placed in the autoclave all equipment shall be bagged, labeled as to contents, initialed, dated and sealed. If multiple autoclaves are in use, the autoclave used must be designated on the packaging.
(4)
Instruments shall then be packed individually in sterilized packs and sterilized in a medical-grade autoclave. All sterilized packs shall contain either a sterilized indicator or internal temperature indicator.
(5)
Each autoclave bag must be used in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and may hold no more than one (1) individual item (ex. one tube or needle bar). A piercing set may be bagged together.
(e)
After sterilization, the packaged instruments shall be stored in a clean dry cabinet or other tightly covered container reserved and labeled for storage of sterile instruments.
(f)
If a sterilized package has been breached or allowed to get wet, the instrument(s) must be re-packaged and sterilized again before use.
(g)
A log of sterilization procedures shall be maintained near the sterilizing equipment Included in the log shall be type of load, quantity of load, temperature, pressure and length of sterilizing time.
(h)
Spore indicators shall be used a minimum of at least once a month unless the manufacturer specifies more frequent monitoring or after 40 hours of usage, whichever comes first, and the results must be kept on-site for a minimum of two years. An independent commercial testing laboratory contracted by the operator/ body artist or both shall perform monthly biological spore testing of the autoclave. A provision shall be included in the contract between the operator or body artist (or both) with the commercial testing laboratory requiring the commercial testing facility to notify the health authority of any failure of the autoclave to eradicate all living organisms, including spores.
(i)
Upon notification of a positive microbiological monitoring report, the sterilizer shall be immediately checked for proper use and function and the operator shall cease use of the sterilizer immediately upon receipt of the positive report. Any items remaining bagged after sterilization must be reprocessed and sterilized by an autoclave approved for use prior to return to service. Three consecutive negative biological tests must be achieved before the studio is reopened. The studio shall have the option to obtain a properly functioning sterilizer with a negative biological report in order to remain open or if the studio has more than one autoclave in operation they may be given approval to remain open. The health authority will consider the body art studio's emergency plan should autoclave failure or malfunction occur.
(j)
Any item or instrument used for body art that is contaminated during the procedure shall be discarded and replaced immediately with a new disposable item or a new sterilized instrument or item before the procedure resumes.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § X )
Sec. 22-111. - Dyes and pigments.
(a)
All dyes and pigments used in tattooing shall be from commercial professional suppliers specifically manufactured as dyes and/or pigments only for the tattooing of human skin.
(b)
In preparing or mixing of dyes or pigments, only nontoxic sterile materials shall be used. Dyes or pigments shall be mixed and placed in sterile individual single-use containers.
(c)
After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in the single-use container(s) shall be properly discarded along with the container(s).
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XI )
Sec. 22-112. - Tattoo preparation.
(a)
Medical grade disposable gloves shall be worn during the preparation of equipment for a tattoo procedure and during the procedure. Vinyl gloves are not permissible.
(b)
Only a commercially packaged, single-use, pre-sterilized needle assembly with bar shall be used and disposed of immediately after use into a puncture-proof, autoclavable container, or disposable biohazard container.
(c)
Sterilized instruments shall remain in sterile packages until opened in front of the client.
(d)
Any part of a tattooing machine that may be touched by the artist during the procedure shall be covered with a disposable plastic sheath that is discarded after each procedure and the machine shall be disinfected.
(e)
A clip cord sleeve and barrier film shall be used over exposed electrical cords or other approved cleaning and disinfection methods demonstrated to prevent contamination.
(f)
All devices used to apply pigments must be designed and used to prevent backflow of pigments into the machine.
(g)
Single-use towels or gauze shall be used in preparing the site to be tattooed and shall be disposed of after use on each patron or client.
(h)
If shaving is necessary, single-use disposable razors shall be used and discarded between clients and as otherwise needed.
(i)
After shaving the area to be tattooed, or if the area does not need to be shaved, the site of the tattoo shall be cleaned with soap and water, rinsed with clean water, and germicidal solution applied in a sanitary manner before each placement of design on the skin.
(j)
When a workstation rinse cup is used alone, the cup and solution shall be disposable and discarded after each client.
(k)
If squirt bottles are used to dispense liquids, the liquid shall be squirted onto a single-use wipe rather than directly onto the client.
(l)
Single-use ointment tubes, applicators, and supplies shall be discarded after each tattoo application.
(m)
When a paper stencil is used by a tattoo artist for transferring the design to the skin, it shall be single-use and disposable. The use of roll-on or stick deodorants for tattoo site preparation is prohibited.
(n)
The stencil shall be applied with antimicrobial soap or a Health Authority- approved product dispensed from a container in a manner that does not contaminate the unused portion.
(o)
When the design is drawn directly onto the skin, autoclavable, pre-sterilized, pens shall be used or single-use, non-toxic pens or markers shall be used and discarded after each use.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XII )
Sec. 22-113. - Body piercing preparation.
(a)
Medical grade disposable gloves shall be worn during the preparation of equipment for a piercing procedure and during the procedure. Vinyl gloves are not permissible.
(b)
Only a commercially packaged, single-use, pre-sterilized piercing needle shall be used and disposed of immediately after use into a puncture proof, auto-clavable container, or disposable biohazard container. No approved tool may be modified and used for anything other than its intended use.
(c)
Pre-sterilize all forceps, hemostats, calipers, and tubes in sealed, properly labeled, sterile indicator bags. These items are to be used on one person, in one sitting. After one such use, they must be cleaned in an ultrasonic cleaner, placed in sealed indicator bags, properly labeled, autoclaved and stored in sterile indicator bags.
(d)
Sterilized instruments shall remain in sterile packages until opened in front of the client.
(e)
Single-use towels or gauze shall be used in preparing the piercing site and shall be disposed of after use on each patron or client.
(f)
If shaving is necessary, single-use disposable razors shall be used and discarded between clients and as otherwise needed.
(g)
After shaving the area to be pierced, or if the area does not need to be shaved, the piercing site shall be cleaned with soap and water, rinsed with clean water, and germicidal solution applied in a sanitary manner before beginning the procedure.
(h)
In the case of oral piercings, the operator shall provide the individual with antimicrobial mouthwash in a single-use cup and shall ensure that the individual utilizes the mouthwash provided and rinses for a minimum of 30 seconds prior to the procedure. In the case of a lip, labret, or cheek piercing, procedures described in this section for both skin and oral piercings shall be followed.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XIII )
Sec. 22-114. - Piercing jewelry.
(a)
Client and body piercer should have appropriate size and quality jewelry chosen before the procedure begins.
(b)
Jewelry used in piercing shall consist of a material rated by the ASTM or the ISO as being suitable for permanent surgical implant, such as stainless steel, titanium, niobium, solid platinum or a dense low porosity plastic such as Tygon or PTFE. Copies of the jewelry manufacturer's documentation, which verify compliance with standards, must be available for inspection on request. Solid 14 karat or higher, white or yellow nickel-free gold may also be used. Purity verification must be available for inspection on request.
(c)
The jewelry must be free of nicks, scratches, or irregular surfaces.
(d)
All jewelry must be properly sterilized prior to use in a medical grade autoclave, stored in sterile indicator bags, sealed and dated. Any two-piece or multi-piece jewelry that is screwed or pieced together must be separated prior to sterilization.
(e)
Should jewelry become contaminated during the piercing process, a sterile piece of jewelry must be used or re-sterilization must occur.
(f)
Ear studs or other jewelry designed for ear lobe piercing are not appropriate jewelry for other body parts and must not be used by body piercers.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XIV )
Sec. 22-115. - Body art after care.
(a)
The completed tattoo shall be washed with a single-use towel saturated with an antimicrobial solution.
(b)
After the area has dried, apply a layer of antibacterial ointment or other approved product from a single-use collapsible or plastic tube.
(c)
A sterile bandage or dressing shall then be applied to the tattoo using a sealed non-sticking pad or wrap.
(d)
Verbal and written instructions, approved by the health authority for the care of the body art procedure site shall be provided to each client by the operator upon completion of the procedure. The written instruction shall include, at a minimum: what to do, what to avoid, suggested care solutions/over-the-counter balms or treatments, cleaning instructions, and what to look for during the healing process. The written instructions shall advise the client to consult a physician at the first sign of infection and will contain the name, address and phone number of the establishment. The instructions will also list the name, address and phone number of the environmental health section of the health department advising the client to call with questions regarding the facility. The document shall be signed and dated by both parties, with a copy given to the client and the operator retaining the original with all other required records for a minimum of three (3) years after the procedure.
(e)
Use either one or both of the following after care solutions for body piercing:
(1)
Packaged sterile saline solution with no additives (read the label) or non-iodized sea salt mixture.
(2)
Liquid anti-microbial or germicidal soap.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XV )
Sec. 22-116. - Disinfection of workplace.
(a)
Each body art studio must be kept clean and sanitary. The owner must develop and implement a written cleaning schedule that includes appropriate methods of decontamination and tasks or procedures to be performed.
(b)
This written schedule must be based on the location within the studio, the type of surfaces to be cleaned, type of possible contamination present, the tasks or procedures to be performed, and their location within the studio.
(c)
The following procedures should be adhered to:
(1)
A body artist shall only conduct body art activities under stenle conditions.
(2)
Clean and sanitize all equipment and work surfaces with an appropriate EPA-registered disinfectant after completion of the body art procedures and at the end of the work shift or when surfaces have become contaminated since the last cleaning.
(3)
Remove and replace protective coverings after each body art procedure.
(4)
Inspect and decontaminate, on a daily basis, reusable receptacles such as bins, pails, and cans that have the likelihood of becoming contaminated. When contamination is visible, clean and decontaminate receptacles immediately.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XVI )
Sec. 22-117. - Disposal of biomedical waste.
(a)
Needles, razors, or other sharp instruments used during body art procedures, shall be placed in puncture-resistant, closed containers immediately after use, handled and disposed of according to the provisions of this article.
(b)
Used needles shall not be purposely bent or broken, or otherwise manipulated by hand.
(c)
Contaminated waste, which may release liquid blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood or body fluids when handled, must be placed in an approved "red bag", which is marked with the International Biohazard Symbol.
(d)
Waste containers shall be kept closed when not in use.
(e)
Disposable waste shall be handled, stored, and disposed of to minimize direct exposure of personnel to waste materials.
(f)
Biomedical waste shall not be stored outdoors unless in a secured, locked container, or comply with county/city solid waste ordinances.
(g)
All regulated wastes shall be separated from non-regulated waste, disposed of in labeled, manufacturer's color-coded waste containers with color-coded, puncture-resistant bags and shall be removed from the premises by a disposal company certified to handle biohazard waste products. Waste hauler manifests for contaminated waste transport and disposal must be kept on-site for three years and be presented for inspection upon request.
(1)
All sharps must be immediately placed after use in puncture resistant containers that are approved for the use of regulated waste.
a.
Sharps containers must not be allowed to overfill, must be used according to manufacturer's instructions.
(h)
Transfer of biomedical waste to off-site treatment or disposal facilities.
(1)
Any generator of biomedical waste shall transfer custody of the waste only to a collector who is operating under authority of these rules.
(2)
All biomedical waste generated by a facility must have custody of the waste transferred only to a collector who is operating under the authority of OCGA 391-3-4.15 as amended. The disposal of biomedical waste generated by a tattoo or body piercing facility by landfilling is prohibited.
(i)
Regulated waste, including sharps, must be removed from the body art establishment when the container reaches its maximum load as indicated by the size of the container not to exceed 90 days documentation of regulated waste removal must be maintained for three years.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XVII )
Sec. 22-118. - Client files.
(a)
Every client shall complete an application and consent form approved by the health authority prior to having any body art activity performed upon or to their body. Minors must have permission for piercings (where allowed).
(b)
The application and consent form shall contain a minimum of the following:
(1)
Name;
(2)
Age;
(3)
In the case of piercings for a minor client, the parent's or legal guardian's name, proof of parentage or legal guardianship through a copy of a birth certificate or court order of guardianship respectively, or a notarized document signed by the parent or legal guardian attesting to the parent's or legal guardian's relationship to the minor client and the consent to conduct the contemplated body art activity upon the minor client;
(4)
A brief description of the body art activity to be performed;
(5)
The phone number of the county health department and instructions for the client, or in the case of a minor client the minor client and his/her parent or legal guardian, to contact the health department with any complaint, question or concern regarding safety, sanitization or sterilization procedures;
(6)
The name of the body artist who is to conduct the body art upon the client or minor client and the artist's license number;
(7)
Signature of the client, or in the case of a minor client—the signature of the client's parent or legal guardian signed in the presence of the body artist;
(8)
The signature of the body artist; and
(9)
The date(s) of all signatures.
(c)
A client shall inform the body artist of any known chronic medical or communicable conditions, including, but not limited to the following:
(1)
Diabetes;
(2)
History of hemophilia;
(3)
History of skin disease, skin lesions, or skin sensitivities to soap, disinfectants, etc.;
(4)
History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes or other skin sensitivities;
(5)
History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy;
(6)
The taking of medications such as aspirin or other anticoagulants, which thin the blood and or interfere with blood clotting;
(7)
History of or suspicion of adverse reaction to latex or products containing latex;
(8)
History of keloid formation.
(d)
A client shall inform the body artist of a known pregnancy or possibility of a pregnancy.
(e)
The body artist shall inform the client, verbally and in writing that the health conditions outlined in (c) and (d) may increase health risks associated with receiving a body art procedure.
(f)
The body artist shall require the client to sign a release form confirming that information in (c) and (d) was obtained or attempted to be obtained and the client refused to disclose the same.
(g)
For each client, proper records of identification, an application and consent form, a description and location of the body art received, and copies of the following forms shall be kept and retained for a minimum of three years at the studio:
(1)
A statement by the client attesting that he/she is not under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs.
(2)
Procedures signed by the client advising them of proper subsequent care of the body art.
(3)
A copy of an informational sheet signed by the client informing them of the risks involved and possible complications that might result from the body art procedure.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XIII )
Sec. 22-119. - Personnel—Files.
(a)
Every applicant for a body art license or renewal of a body art license, in order to be qualified for such license, shall provide to the health authority evidence of satisfaction of the following:
(1)
Health department exam;
(2)
Current certification in health department-approved basic first aid and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation;
(3)
Successful completion of a course on prevention of disease transmission and blood borne pathogen compliance with the OSHA guidelines given or approved by the health department;
(4)
Satisfactory completion of a least two years actual experience in the practice of performing body art activities of the kind for which a license is sought, whether such experience was obtained within or outside of the county, or evidence of a completed apprenticeship program approved by the body art advisory committee. Two years experience is defined as 2,400 hours of actual experience as outlined by the body art advisory committee. If the experience or apprenticeship was obtained outside the county, the body art advisory committee will make a recommendation to the Baldwin County Board of Health or their representative after review of all applicable information which then will make a determination regarding qualification for licensure; and
(5)
Hepatitis B vaccination status—Disclosure. An applicant for a body art license shall provide the health authority, and shall provide to the owner of any body art establishment in which the applicant intends to perform or in which he does perform body art activity, valid documentation of his Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) vaccination status stating:
a.
Laboratory evidence of immunity;
b.
Documentation stating the vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons; contraindications require a dated and signed licensed health care professional's statement specifying the name of the body artist license applicant or employee and that the vaccine cannot be given; or
c.
Signed certificate of vaccination declination of HBV for medical or religious reasons.
(b)
The owner or governing body of each body art facility must maintain a file on all employees (including apprentices) who perform body art procedures. Employee files must be kept on location for the duration of the person's employment and for a minimum of three years after the person is no longer employed. The employee files must be available for inspection and include all items listed in (a)(1)—(4) above and include a copy of a photo ID.
(c)
If the artist is currently in business at the time of application for the permit and it is prior to the effective date of these rules, the above certifications/trainings must be obtained within six months (180 days) from the date the rule adoption for the apprenticeship/experience requirement to be waived; otherwise, a license will not be granted until all conditions are met.
(d)
The body art establishment operator shall make available, at no cost to the personnel, the Hepatitis B vaccination series, as well as any routine booster dose(s) to every person who may have occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious material. For new personnel, the vaccine shall be made available within ten business days of initial work assignment.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XIX )
Sec. 22-120. - Body art license.
(a)
No person shall practice body art procedures without first obtaining a body art license from the county health department. Apprentices will hold an apprentice license.
(b)
An applicant for a body art license must be a minimum of 18 years of age and shall demonstrate to the health authority his/her successful compliance with all training, disclosure, consent and educational requirements of this body art regulation prior to the issuance or renewal of a body art/apprentice license by the health authority.
(c)
Applicants shall submit a completed application provided by the health authority, pay a fee determined by the Baldwin County Board of Health and complete and pass a Health Department-approved exam or equivalent as approved by the body art advisory committee.
(d)
Application for the body art license shall include:
(1)
Name;
(2)
Date of birth;
(3)
Sex;
(4)
Residence address;
(5)
Mailing address;
(6)
Phone number;
(7)
Place(s) of employment as an operator/artist/apprentice;
(8)
Photo Identification;
(9)
Proof of successful completion of an OSHA approved blood borne pathogen/universal precautions training program and basic first aid/CPR classes given or approved by the department; and
(10)
Proof of completion of an approved apprenticeship [two years experience defined as 2,400 hours of actual experience as outlined by the body art advisory committee] in a licensed establishment in Georgia or other state to include the minimum established requirements.
(e)
No body art license will be issued without successfully completing an OSHA-approved course in blood borne pathogens/universal precautions and basic first aid/CPR.
(f)
Acting within scope of license. A body artist shall only perform that form of body art that is indicated in the body art license application submitted to the health department to receive the license.
(g)
The body art license shall be valid from the date of issuance and shall automatically expire in one year and must be renewed unless revoked sooner by the health authority.
(h)
In order for a body art license to be renewed, continuing education classes approved by the body art advisory committee must be attended and a set renewal fee must be paid to the health department. Body artists must attend a department approved continuing educational class on blood borne pathogens/universal precautions every two years.
(i)
It is understood that body artists from other states/districts/jurisdictions that do not require licensure may apply for a license In this case, the application must be approved by the body art advisory committee. For an artist's application to be considered by the body art advisory committee, all conditions of this section must be met to include at least two years prior experience as documented by the following:
(1)
Letter of experience (new applicants only). The letter must include:
a.
Date, artist legal name, address, phone number and all alias';
b.
Facility name, facility address and phone number of where the artist desires to work;
c.
Dates of previous employment and job duties (e.g. tattoo and/or body piercing); and
d.
Signature of owners or managers of facilities where previously employed validating prior employment and their contact information.
e.
If items c. and d. cannot be obtained, an apprenticeship must be conducted.
Note: If operator was self-employed, a copy of their business license is accepted as proof of experience/training Proof will also be considered as tax records, copy of another state's tattoo artist license, or other similar city, county, state, or federal documents which show the prospective applicant as having been in business or operating for two years elsewhere. The body art advisory committee shall have final approval on other forms of documentation submitted as evidence or proof.
(j)
All body art licenses shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous area approved by the health authority upon entry to the facility as well as in each artist's work area where they may be readily observed by clients during the procedure.
(k)
Guest body art license.
(1)
No visiting body artist shall practice body art without a guest body art license issued by the health authority.
(2)
The department may issue a seven-day license to an individual holding a license or similar certificate or registration to engage in the practice of body art issued under the jurisdiction of another city, county, or state of the United States. Such guest body art license will allow a person to practice body art under the direct supervision of a body artist holding a valid body art license issued by the health authority. The issuance of a guest body art license is conditional upon the applicant demonstrating the following.
a.
The applicant has received training equivalent to the minimum training requirement set by this body art regulation;
b.
The applicant shall provide a letter of consent signed by a body artist licensed by the health authority, a copy of the body art license, and a copy of the body art facility permit where the applicant will perform body art; and
c.
Application fee paid to the health department.
(3)
A body artist licensed by the health authority requesting to have a guest body artist perform under his/her supervision shall:
a.
Require that the guest body artist notify the health authority in writing ten days in advance of the requested date of the guest body art license; and
b.
Require that the visiting body artist obtain a guest body art license from the health authority.
(l)
Apprentice license.
(1)
No person shall begin to learn the practice body art procedures without first obtaining an apprentice license from the county health department.
(2)
An applicant for an apprentice license must be a minimum of 18 years of age and shall complete the following requirements prior to the issuance of a body art license.
a.
Proof of successful completion of an OSHA-approved blood borne pathogen/ universal precautions training program and basic first aid/CPR classes given or approved by the health department;
b.
Proof of completion of an approved apprenticeship (two years experience defined as 2,400 hours of actual experience as outlined by the body art advisory committee) in a licensed establishment in Georgia or other state to include the minimum established requirements; and
c.
Pass a health department-approved exam or equivalent as approved by the body art advisory committee.
(3)
Apprentice applicants shall submit a completed application provided by the department and pay a fee determined by the Baldwin County Board of Health.
(4)
Application for the apprentice license shall include:
a.
Name;
b.
Date of birth;
c.
Sex;
d.
Residence address;
e.
Mailing address;
f.
Phone number;
g.
Place(s) of prior employment as an apprentice if applicable;
h.
Photo ID; and
i.
Letter of employment/apprenticeship (new applicants only). The letter must be from the owner of a permitted facility where they will be working and include:
1.
Date, facility name, facility address and phone number.
2.
Applicant's job duties (e.g. tattoo, and/or body piercing).
3.
Signature of owner or manager of facility granting permission for applicant to serve as an apprentice in their facility and their contact information.
(5)
Acting within scope of license. An apprentice shall only perform the form of body art that is indicated in the apprentice license application submitted to the health department to receive the license. All apprentices must work under the supervision of a body art professional relative to the area indicated on their apprentice license.
(6)
A body art professional is a designation granted by the body art advisory committee to those individuals who make application to the Baldwin County Board of Health and meet the following qualifications:
a.
Ten years experience as a tattoo artist and/or ten years experience as a body piercer as evidenced by documentation outlined in subsection (i)(1) of this section and submitted with the application;
b.
A history of facility compliance as determined by the committee; and the
c.
Individual must be in good standing with the health authority.
(7)
The apprentice license shall be valid from the date of issuance and shall automatically expire in one year and must be renewed unless revoked sooner by the department.
(8)
All apprentice licenses shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous area approved by the health authority upon entry to the facility.
(9)
Each client must be notified in writing that the work they are receiving is being performed by an apprentice and not a fully licensed body artist.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XX )
Sec. 22-120. - Application for permit.
(a)
The administrative body of each body art studio shall submit to the local county health department an application for a permit to operate under the rules and regulations. No studio shall be operated and no body art performed without such permit, which is current under these rules and regulations.
(b)
A new or initial application is required for a body art establishment that has not previously been permitted at the time this rule goes into effect or for instances when ownership changes.
(c)
To be eligible for a permit the studio must be in compliance with these rules and regulations.
(d)
The application for permit shall be made on forms provided by the county health department
(e)
Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by an 8½" × 11" or larger page containing a detailed floor drawing to scale of the body art studio. Such drawing shall show the accurate placement of each of the following: windows, doors, room measurements, chairs, tables, sinks, bathrooms, waiting area, and all equipment placement whether affixed or not for clients and/or staff.
(f)
Specification sheets for all equipment to be located in the facility to include tattooing machines, autoclaves, hot water heaters, etc.
(g)
A listing of the names of all staff including the owner who will be working in the studio shall be included with the application for a permit. This listing shall include the full name and nicknames of each staff person.
(h)
The ownership of the studio shall be fully disclosed in its application for a permit.
(i)
Zoning and other local requirements regarding proper location and establishment of body art studios to include building, plumbing and electrical codes shall be addressed by the applicant with the responsible local officials.
(j)
Prior to the issuance of the permit to new or existing establishments the applicant shall provide evidence of satisfactory compliance with the provisions of this article and all other provisions of laws that apply to the location, construction and maintenance of body art establishments and the safety of persons therein.
(k)
Existing establishments and personnel.
(1)
Existing body art establishments and artists in operation at the time these rules and regulations are adopted shall make application for a permit and/or a license within six months of the adoption date. Failure to make application within six months of the rule's adoption will result in the existing establishment and/or artist's inability to be considered under the provisions of (k)(2) and (3) of this section.
(2)
The health authority may approve up to a twelve-month period from the date of application for compliance of physical facilities of existing establishments; provided however that no exemptions will be granted for circumstances presenting an immediate threat to public health such as lack of potable water, toilet facilities, waste disposal, adequate lighting, adequate sinks and lavatories, and universal precautions.
(3)
Body artists operating at the date of adoption of these rules must be certified in bloodborne pathogens/universal precautions, basic first aid/CPR certification, receive all vaccinations, and pass the health department exam within six months of the rule's adoption date. Failure to comply will result in the health authority's inability to permit the artist as existing personnel and all provisions of the "artist license section" will apply.
(l)
Temporary body art facilities.
(1)
A temporary facility permit may be issued for body art services provided outside of the physical site of a facility registered with the health authority for the purpose of product demonstration in connection with body art conventions or industry trade shows.
(2)
A temporary body art establishment permit may be obtained by the operator of a body art establishment holding a current body art permit after submitting an application for a temporary facility. Such application must contain the location, the operating days, hours of operation of the temporary facility, and the plans/description of the temporary facility.
(3)
Temporary facility permits will not be issued unless:
a.
The applicant is a minimum of eighteen 18 years of age and demonstrates to the Health Authority his/her successful compliance with all training, disclosure, consent and requirements of this body art regulation.
b.
Application for a permit for the practitioner and/or temporary facility has been submitted for review by the health authority, at least 30 days prior to the event.
c.
The applicant has paid all required fees set by the board of health.
(4)
The following criteria pertain to temporary facilities permitting and licensing:
a.
No permit and/or license for a temporary body art establishment may be issued for more than seven consecutive days.
b.
An applicant for a temporary body art establishment permit and/or license shall not receive more than two consecutive seven-day permits and/or license during a 30-day period.
c.
Temporary facility permits and/or license shall not be transferable from one place to another or from one person to another.
d.
Temporary facility permits and/or licenses shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous place as determined by the health authority so clients can readily observe them.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXI )
Sec. 22-122. - Establishment permit.
(a)
The health authority shall issue a body art establishment permit:
(1)
After an inspection of the proposed facility reveals that the facility is in compliance with requirements of these rules; and
(2)
Upon receiving a completed application with applicable fees.
(b)
The permit shall be displayed as near the front entrance as practical or as determined by the health authority but in a conspicuous place that is easily visible to the public. The facility shall also post near the public entrance in conspicuous view [in the same area as the most current inspection report—within 15 feet of the front or primary public door and between five feet and seven feet from the floor and in an areas where it can be read at a distance of one foot away] the name, address and phone number of the health authority.
(c)
The facility shall also post near the public entrance in conspicuous view (in the same area as the most current inspection report—within 15 feet of the front or primary public door and between five feet and seven feet from the floor and in an area where it can be read at a distance of one foot away) the name, address and phone number of the local county health department and the procedure for filing a complaint.
(d)
Establishment permits automatically expire in one year, must be renewed unless revoked sooner by the health authority, and are not transferable from one studio to another.
(e)
Responsibilities of the permit holder. Upon acceptance of the permit issued by the health authority, the permit holder in order to retain the permit shall:
(1)
Comply with the provisions of this article including the conditions of a granted variance;
(2)
Immediately discontinue operations and notify the health authority if an imminent health hazard may exist as defined under this rule;
(3)
Allow representatives of the health authority access to the body art establishment as specified;
(4)
Replace existing facilities and equipment with facilities and equipment that comply with this article if:
a.
The health authority directs the replacement because the facilities and equipment constitute a public health hazard or nuisance or no longer comply with the criteria upon which the facilities and equipment were accepted;
b.
The health authority directs the replacement of the facilities and equipment because of a change of ownership; or
c.
The facilities and equipment are replaced in the normal course of operation.
(5)
Comply with directives of the health authority including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the health authority in regard to the permit holder's body art establishment;
(6)
Accept notices issued and served by the health authority according to law; and
(7)
Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this article or a directive of the health authority, including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices, orders, warnings, and other directives.
(f)
Training/experience requirements:
(1)
An existing body artist wanting to open a body art establishment must provide proof of experience with an approved apprenticeship [minimum of 2,400 hours documented within a 24-month period], proof of current icensing, bloodbome pathogen/universal precautions training, basic first aid/CPR, and successful completion of the health department exam.
(2)
Reciprocity. For body artists from other states/districts/jurisdictions that do not have a permitting process wanting to open a body art establishment or become permitted for a temporary body art establishment, the following will be required:
a.
Letter of experience. (Three years prior experience as documented by section 22-120(i)(1) of this rule).
b.
Proof of successful completion of an OSHA approved blood borne pathogen/universal precautions training program and basic first aid/CPR classes given or approved by the department, and passage of the health department exam.
(g)
A permit shall no longer be valid and shall be returned to the health authority when the studio ceases to operate, has moved to another location, the ownership changes, or the permit is suspended or revoked.
(h)
One copy of the most current version of this body art regulation must be at the facility at all times If not provided by the county health department, the health department must provide a location or website whereby a copy of the regulations may be obtained.
(i)
A studio, which fails to comply with these rules and regulations, shall be subject to the sanctions available to the health authority pursuant to O.C.G A. § 31-5 including but not limited to denial or revocation of its permit by the health authority.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXII )
Sec. 22-123. - Inspections.
(a)
The studio and all its records shall be available for review and examination by properly identified representatives of the county/department.
(b)
A copy of the inspection report shall be displayed in a conspicuous, common area near the front entrance or as determined by the health authority [within 15 feet of the front or primary public door and between five feet and seven feet from the floor and in an areas where it can be read at a distance of one foot away] and also shall be available for public inspection at the appropriate county health department office wherein the studio is located if applicable.
(c)
Representatives of the health authority, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter any body art facility or operation at any reasonable time as determined by the health authority for the purpose of making inspections and review of pertinent records to determine compliance with this article. Should access be denied, an inspection warrant may be obtained as authorized in O C G.A. § 31-5, Article 2.
(d)
Body art facilities shall be subject to inspection at reasonable hours no less than twice annually and as often as is deemed necessary by the health authority to ensure adequate compliance with the provisions of these rules. The permit holder is responsible for providing a person or persons at the time of inspection who are authorized and able to provide access to all rooms, facilities and records of the body art facility and who can demonstrate that there is sufficient daily oversight of employees and routine monitoring of operations
(e)
If a person denies access to the health authority, the health authority shall:
(1)
Inform the person that:
a.
The permit holder is required to allow access to the health authority;
b.
Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a body art establishment's permit to operate; and
c.
If access is denied, an inspection warrant, issued by the appropriate authority to order access, may be obtained according to law; and
(2)
Make a final request for access.
(f)
Inspections may consist of the health officer/inspector accompanied by representatives of the nursing section of the health department.
(g)
Health officers/inspectors must complete an OSHA approved blood borne pathogens/ universal precautions, basic first aid/CPR, written exam, and field experience [five supervised inspections] prior to conducting solo inspections of permitted establishments.
(h)
Inspection results—Reporting and scoring.
(1)
Inspection results for body art establishments shall be recorded on standard health department forms.
(2)
The scoring system shall include a weighted point value for each requirement in which critical items are assigned values of five points, with minor violations having assigned values of either one or two points.
(3)
The rating score of the facilities shall be the total of the weighted point values for all violations subtracted from 100.
(i)
Violation correction.
(1)
Correction of imminent health threats, critical and minor violations shall be corrected immediately, within 72 hours, and ten calendar days, respectively.
(2)
Upon declaration of an imminent health hazard which cannot be immediately corrected, the local health authority shall issue an order requiring the facility to immediately cease operations until authorized to reopen.
(3)
Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the complexity of the corrective action needed, the health authority may agree to or specify a longer time frame, not to exceed ten calendar days after the inspection, for the permit holder to correct violations.
(4)
Failure to correct these violations to the satisfaction of the health authority/department may result in such emergency action as deemed necessary by the health authority/department including actions pursuant to O.C G.A § 31-5-2, § 31-5-9(a).
(5)
In the case of temporary body art facilities, all critical violations shall be corrected immediately or provisions made to satisfy the violation until complete correction can be made within 24 hours. If critical violations are not corrected within 24 hours, the establishment shall immediately cease operations until authorized to resume by the health authority or its duly authorized representative. Upon declaration of an imminent health hazard which cannot be immediately corrected, the health authority shall issue an order requiring the facility to immediately cease operations until authorized to reopen.
(6)
Follow up inspections when required will be performed within a 45-day period.
(j)
Upon the completion of the inspection, the health authority shall have the person in charge sign the inspection report form. The person in charge's signature shall not necessarily indicate agreement with the findings noted on the inspection.
(1)
The health authority shall:
a.
Inform a person who declines to sign an acknowledgment of receipt of inspection findings that:
1.
An acknowledgment of receipt is not an agreement with findings;
2.
Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the permit holder's obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified; and
3.
A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the inspection report and conveyed to the health authority's historical record for the body art establishment; and
b.
Make a final request that the person in charge sign an acknowledgment receipt of inspectional findings.
(k)
Failure to make timely corrections to the satisfaction of the health authority/department may subject the body art establishment to suspension or revocation of its permit pursuant to this rule.
(1)
The health authority may approve a compliance schedule that extends beyond the time limits specified under subsection 22-123(i) if a schedule of compliance is submitted by the permit holder and no health hazard exists or will result from allowing an extended schedule for compliance.
(l)
Voluntary closure. A body art establishment that is graded with two critical violations or does not correct the violations within 72 hours (if allowed) of receiving inspection report will be requested to voluntarily close until all violations are corrected and/or have enforcement action taken to suspend or revoke the establishment's permit according to this rule.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXIII )
Sec. 22-124. - Variance.
(a)
Modifications and waivers. The board of health may grant a variance by modifying or waiving the requirements of this article if in the opinion of the health authority a health hazard or nuisance will not result from the variance and if it is determined that literal enforcement of such provision will result in unnecessary hardship to the applicant. Variance request cannot be contrary to the public interest, public health and/or safety of the clients.
(b)
Documentation of proposed variance and justification. Before a variance from a requirement of this article is considered, the information shall be provided in writing on forms provided by the board of health setting forth in detail the basis upon which the request is made by the person requesting the variance and will include:
(1)
A statement of the proposed variance of the article requirement citing relevant rule and subsection numbers;
(2)
An analysis of the rationale for how the potential public health hazards and nuisances addressed by the relevant rules and subsections will be alternatively addressed by the proposal; and
(3)
All supporting documentation as it is relevant to the variance requested.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXIV )
Sec. 22-125. - Implementation, enforcement, penalty.
(a)
The administration and enforcement of these rules and regulations shall be as prescribed in O.C.G.A. chapter 31-5. The board of health shall have the power and authority to suspend or revoke permits for failure to comply with the provisions of this article. Implementation of these rules and regulations shall begin six months after the effective date.
(b)
Each county board of health shall have primary responsibility for the enforcement of these rules and regulations within its jurisdiction and may include adoption as code by the governing bodies of counties and municipalities for the purpose of enforcement.
(c)
No body art studio shall operate without a permit Failure or refusal to file an application for a permit shall constitute a violation of Chapter 40 of Title 31 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Any person who fails or refuses to file including, but not limited to, an order to cease and desist operating a body art studio shall be subject to an injunction or other penalties from a court of jurisdiction.
(d)
Suspension is effective upon service of a written notice thereof, and body art procedures must cease immediately.
(e)
Conditions warranting action. The health authority may summarily suspend a permit to operate a body art establishment if it determines through inspection, or examination of employees, records, or other means as specified in this article, that an imminent health hazard exists.
(f)
Resumption of operations. If operations of a body art establishment are discontinued due to the existence of an imminent health hazard or otherwise according to law, the permit holder shall obtain approval from the health authority before resuming operations.
(g)
Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this article or any rule or regulation promulgated under O.C.G.A. chapter 31-40 by the health authority shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXV )
Sec. 22-126. - Severability.
If any provision or subpart thereof contained in this body art regulation is found to be invalid, unconstitutional, or in conflict with O.C.G.A. or a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of all remaining provisions or subpart thereof shall not be so affected but shall remain in full force and effect.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1), § XXV )
Sec. 22-127. - Fees.
Body art:      Fee
Plan review fee .....$300.00
Annual/Renewal Fee (Studio) .....$400.00
per workstation .....$50.00
Artist fee (tattoo) .....$200.00
Artist fee (piercer) .....$200.00
Guest artist .....$50.00
Temporary studio fee .....$50.00
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(1) )
Secs. 22-128—22-140. - Reserved.
ARTICLE - V.
PORTABLE SANITATION CONTRACTORS

Sec. 22-141. - Applicability.
These rules shall apply to all portable sanitation service providers except those being used in a facility or system under the jurisdiction of and regulated by the Department of Natural Resources under the Georgia Water Quality Control Act or the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-142. - Definitions.
Approval or approved means acceptable or accepted by the health authority in accordance with applicable specifications stated herein or with additional criteria applied by the authority.
Certified portable sanitation contractor means an individual engaged in furnishing, renting, or servicing portable units, and that has met the certification requirements of this article and is in good standing with the department.
Certified portable sanitation company means a person engaged in the business of furnishing, renting or servicing portable sanitation units, and that has met the requirements of this article and is in good standing with the department.
Construction site means a development area in which building construction, repair, or land improvement is taking place.
Department or DPH means the Georgia Department of Public Health.
Health authority means a county board of health organized pursuant to O.C.G. A. § 31-3-1 et seq.
Holding tank means a water-tight container utilized temporarily to hold sewage from a portable sanitation unit.
Onsite sewage management system means a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system, whether serving single or multiple buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences or other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. It includes conventional septic tank systems and privies, as well as alternative onsite sewage management systems approved by the local health authority.
Person means any individual, partnership, corporation or association including bodies political and corporate.
Portable chemical toilet means a self contained non-flush portable toilet facility containing a solution of water and chemical intended for the collection and temporary storage of human body wastes.
Portable hand washing fixture means any portable fixture containing fresh water, soap and disposable towels used for cleaning an individual's hands.
Portable sanitation contractor means an individual performing services related to installation, pumping, transportation, disposal, maintenance, removal, or safe management of portable sanitation units and portable hand washing fixtures.
Portable sanitation unit means any portable structure or fixture used for the collection, temporary storage and chemical treatment of human body wastes that is not connected to an onsite sewage management system or public or community sewerage system. It includes portable chemical toilets and portable hand washing fixtures.
Portable sanitation waste means sewage from portable sanitation units or other equipment designed for temporary collection and storage of waste containing human excreta or residuals of such, or other waste having similar characteristics, and the ingredients used as part of operation of the portable sanitation unit. It does not include liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank or similar treatment works that receives commercial wastewater, industrial wastewater or grease removed from a grease trap.
Prohibited discharge means the discharge or spillage of sewage from a portable sanitation unit in violation of law and that constitutes a public health nuisance.
Public health nuisance means any condition with the potential to cause or promote pathogens, infection, or disease in any individual or the public in general.
Sanitary means free of conditions with the potential to cause or promote pathogens, infection, or disease in any individual or the public in general.
Sewage means human excreta, all water-carried wastes, and liquid portable sanitation waste including grey water from portable showers and hand washing fixtures.
Special event means any temporary activity attracting more than fifty persons and where individuals congregate to participate in or observe an activity in outdoor or portable enclosed or semi-enclosed structures for more than two consecutive hours.
Toilet means a sanitary fixture meeting health authority and plumbing code requirements for receipt and conveyance of human body wastes to a public or community sewerage system or an onsite sewage management system.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-143. - General provisions.
(a)
The department shall regulate the use of temporary non-flush portable sanitation units, and shall regulate persons engaged in the business of furnishing, renting, or servicing portable chemical toilets, and portable hand washing facilities at locations where public sewage treatment systems or on-site sewage management systems are not available or lack sufficient quantities.
(b)
No person shall engage in the removal or disposal of the contents of a portable sanitation unit without having obtained a "Waste Removal and Disposal Permit" from the health authority for the county in which the business is based. The permit must be renewed annually, and shall be valid in every county throughout the state.
(c)
It is the responsibility of the certified portable sanitation contractor and certified portable sanitation company to maintain the portable sanitation unit in a safe and sanitary manner so as not to constitute a public health nuisance.
(d)
The property owner and special event sponsor are responsible for all prohibited discharge and unapproved spillage of sewage associated with a portable sanitation unit. A portable restroom or portable hand wash fixture cannot be used or maintained in such a manner that will allow the seepage, dumping or discharge of sewage from such system to the ground surface, to a water course, drainage ditch, open trench, canal, storm drain or storm sewer, water well, abandoned well, lake, stream, river, estuary, groundwater or other body of water. The property owner and special event sponsor must notify the portable sanitation company if any unit becomes unsanitary, unsafe, or causes a prohibited discharge. The property owner, as the originator, is responsible for ensuring that the portable sanitation unit is only used for the disposal of human excreta. Commercial waste, grease, hazardous chemicals, and non human excreta shall not be discarded into portable sanitation units.
(e)
Each special event sponsor and construction site owner utilizing a portable sanitation unit must and show proof of a service contract with a certified portable sanitation company.
(f)
Portable sanitation unit must meet the requirements of this article where sanitary facilities are needed on a temporary basis for construction sites and special events.
(g)
Employees at all construction sites and the general public attending and participating in special events that are inadequately served by sewered toilet facilities should have easy access to portable sanitation units that are maintained in a clean, sanitary, and functional condition for the protection of human health, safety and welfare. Where a portable sanitation unit supplements or serves in lieu of sewered toilet facilities, the portable sanitation units shall meet the following guidelines:
(1)
Must be furnished by a certified portable sanitation contractor or company holding a current "Waste Removal and Disposal Permit" issued by a health authority.
(2)
The minimum number of portable sanitation units required during anticipated peak attendance at a construction site shall be determined in accordance with the most current Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Regulations for Toilets at Construction Sites (Appendix Table 1), after taking into consideration any sewered seated or urinal toilets that may be present at the site of the construction site.
(3)
The minimum number of portable sanitation units required during anticipated peak attendance at a special event shall be determined in accordance with Table 2, after taking into consideration any sewered seated or urinal toilets that may be present at the site of the special event.
(h)
Portable sanitation units shall be located as close as practical to the highest concentration of participants, observers and employees of special events. However, the units should be placed as far from the food service area as possible. The safety of users shall be a primary consideration in the placement of the units. At special events, portable sanitation units shall be accessible at all times for maintenance by truck.
(i)
No strong bases, acids or organic solvents shall be used in the operation of a portable sanitation unit. Chemicals used in the cleaning, operation or maintenance of portable sanitation units shall be in accordance with applicable federal, state and local provisions.
(j)
The fresh water tank on the service vehicle must be filled with potable water only. When hand wash fixtures are serviced, they must be filled with water from the fresh water tank on the truck or directly from a potable water source. All fresh water tanks on the service vehicles and affixed to hand wash fixtures must be labeled with the international symbol for "Do Not Drink". Each hand washing fixture must be sufficiently supplied with soap and paper towels adequate for the duration between servicing.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-144. - Construction of portable sanitation units.
(a)
A portable sanitation unit shall be a portable self-contained sheltered unit equipped with a waste-receiving holding tank. The waste container shall be rigid, water-tight, made from impervious material, and capable of containing the waste in a sanitary manner.
(b)
Portable sanitation units shall be constructed in the following prescribed manner:
(1)
Each portable sanitation unit must have the name and phone number of the company clearly visible.
(2)
Rooms or shelters housing the units shall be of solid construction, easy to clean, and provide privacy. The toilet room shall be ventilated to the outside and adequately lighted. All ventilation openings to the units, except vent pipes, shall be covered with a screen.
(3)
Portable sanitation units shall have closing doors with internal latches provided to prevent inadvertent entry.
(c)
Portable sanitation units having hand wash fixtures shall have an air gap between the water supply faucet and the flood level rim of the fixture sufficient to prevent backflow and cross contamination between the fresh water supply tank and the wastewater holding tank.
(d)
Any defective or inadequate portable sanitation unit shall be repaired, replaced or withdrawn from service by locking or removal.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority: O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-145. - Removal and disposal of waste from portable sanitation units.
(a)
Removal and disposal of waste from portable sanitation units shall be conducted only by a certified portable sanitation contractor in good standing with the department, pursuant to a "Waste Removal and Disposal Permit."
(b)
The application for a "Waste Removal and Disposal Permit" shall be submitted in writing, on forms provided by the Department, to the health authority for the county in which the business is based, at least ten days prior to engaging in such activities. The health authority shall approve or disapprove the application within 20 days after the receipt of a completed application. The application shall include the business name and address, name and address of the applicant, the manner by which such contents are to be removed, transported and given final disposal, and such other documentation as required by the health authority, including evidence that waste removed and transported will be accepted at approved disposal sites. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall provide evidence of satisfactory compliance with the provisions of these rules.
(c)
The permit shall be valid for no more than 12 months, and shall be subject to suspension and revocation for failure to comply with the requirements of these regulations. Permits shall expire upon change in company ownership or business location.
(d)
Removal of portable sanitation waste shall be conducted in a clean and sanitary manner by means of a vacuum hose to a leak proof tank truck on which all ports are properly valved and capped. The certified portable sanitation contractor is required to clean up all spillage during unit servicing.
(1)
Service vehicles should be equipped with a portable sanitation waste tank adequately sized to service the units; a tank containing water for recharging the units; and when applicable or required, a fresh water tank filled with potable water to service the hand washing fixtures.
(2)
Separate dedicated hoses shall be used for supplying potable water and servicing the portable sanitation unit. They shall be labeled or sized to prevent them from being interchanged and stored in such a manner to prevent cross contamination.
(e)
It is the responsibility of property owners, employers, and event sponsors to ensure that portable sanitation units are serviced by a certified portable sanitation contractor or company in accordance with this rule at least once every seven days, and more frequently as usage may require.
(f)
Servicing shall include the use of a sanitizing solution for cleaning urinals and toilet seats, removing waste from containers, recharging containers with an odor controlling solution, and installing an adequate supply of toilet tissue.
(g)
Portable sanitation waste from tank trucks must be disposed at a facility regulated by the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division.
(h)
A manifest or route sheet must be maintained by the portable sanitation company for a period of twelve months. The manifest or route sheet must include:
(1)
Name or originator, event, sponsor;
(2)
Address or route;
(3)
Date and location of service;
(4)
Date and location of final disposal; and
(5)
Total of gallons being disposed.
(i)
The county issued "Waste Removal and Disposal Permit" number, including the name of the person or firm engaging in the removal of portable sanitation unit waste, shall be lettered on both sides of each vehicle. Letters and numerals shall not be less than two inches in height and shall be readily visible.
(j)
Every vehicle used for service and removal of portable sanitation unit waste shall be equipped with watertight tanks or body and properly maintained. Liquid wastes shall not be transported in open bodied vehicles. All pumps, hose lines, valves and fittings shall be maintained as to prevent leakage. The truck must also have adequate means to clean each unit in place with sanitizing solution.
(k)
Signage or placard stating "Do Not Drink" shall be affixed to the fresh water supply tank and all portable hand washing fixtures. The fresh water supply tank, hand wash fixture's water supply tank and gray water storage tank must be cleaned with 1 to 10 bleach to water solution (typically three- to six-percent sodium hypochlorite solution) or equivalent at least every 45 days to prohibit the growth of algae.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority: O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-146. - Certification of portable sanitation contractors and companies.
(a)
The department shall be responsible for certifying individuals and companies performing services related to furnishing, renting, servicing, and maintenance of a portable sanitation unit.
(b)
There shall be established an advisory committee to assist the department with certification, recertification and decertification of all individuals required to be certified under this article. The committee shall include at least two individuals that are currently certified as portable sanitation contractors. The advisory committee will assist the department with the following:
(1)
Establishing written tests to be administered for the various certifications, and revising such tests from time to time;
(2)
Reviewing complaints regarding poor quality of work and unlawful or unethical practices, and recommending appropriate action by the department;
(3)
Reviewing the content of educational programs and events and assigning appropriate continuing education units;
(4)
Reviewing the established criteria for certification in the assigned specialties and recommending such modifications as are appropriate for the ongoing management of the process; and
(5)
Providing such services or advice as will assist the department and health authorities in the effective enforcement of this article.
(c)
Certification of portable sanitation contractors:
(1)
Individuals engaged in the cleaning installation and maintenance of portable sanitation units may obtain certification from the department as a portable sanitation contractor meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must be at least 18 years of age;
b.
Must show proof of ownership or employment with a certified portable sanitation company currently operating in good standing with the department; and
c.
Must successfully complete a written or oral examination concerning properly maintaining a portable sanitation unit in a clean, sanitary, and functional condition for the protection of human health, safety and welfare. Individuals currently certified by the Portable Sanitation Association International as a health and safety certified portable sanitation worker are excluded from the examination requirement in this article. However, all other requirements must be completed prior to receiving a certified portable sanitation contractor certificate.
d.
The certification period is two years.
(2)
Certification may be renewed for a portable sanitation contractor upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary actions related to the portable sanitation industry;
b.
Must submit a copy of business license or other verification of business or submit proof of employment with a certified portable sanitation company.
c.
Must not have committed any illegal acts related to this article during the certification period;
(3)
A portable sanitation contractor whose certification has expired may be recertified upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary action related to the portable sanitation industry.
b.
Must not have committed any illegal service or maintenance acts related to this article following the expiration of the certification.
c.
Must submit a copy of business license or other verification of business or submit proof of employment with a certified portable sanitation company; and
d.
If more than two years have passed since the certification expired, the applicant must take and pass the portable sanitation contractor exam in addition to meeting the continuing education requirement.
(4)
A decertified portable sanitation contractor may be recertified upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must wait at least two years after decertification to re-apply:
b.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary actions;
c.
Must not have committed any illegal acts related to this article during the decertification period;
d.
Must submit a copy of business license or other verification of business or submit proof of employment with a certified portable sanitation company; and
e.
Must take and pass the portable sanitation contractor exam with a score of 70 or above.
(d)
Certification of portable sanitation companies.
(1)
Any person engaged in the business of cleaning, pumping, installation, and maintenance of portable sanitation units may be certified as a portable sanitation company by the department upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must employ at least one person who is a certified portable sanitation contractor in good standing with the department;
b.
May not associate with any person as owner, part owner, manager, or employee, whose certification has been revoked under this article, unless and until such person has been recertified; and
c.
The certification period is two years.
(2)
Certification may be renewed for a portable sanitation company upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary action related to this article;
b.
Owner or designee must obtain at least six hours of continuing education approved by the department; and
c.
Must not have committed any illegal acts related to this article during the certification period.
(3)
A portable sanitation company whose certification has expired may be recertified upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary action related to this article;
b.
Must submit evidence of the owner's or their designee's completion of six hours of continuing education as approved by the department;
c.
Must not have committed any illegal acts related to this article during the expiration period.
(4)
A decertified portable sanitation company may be recertified upon meeting the following requirements:
a.
Must wait at least two years after decertification to re-apply;
b.
Must have no unresolved or outstanding disciplinary action relating to this article; and
c.
Must not have committed any illegal acts related to this article during the decertification period;
(e)
Fees.
(1)
The certification examination fee is $50.00.
(2)
The portable sanitation company fee shall be $300.00 for the two-year certification period. Persons who achieve a passing score on the examination will be issued a numbered certificate upon receipt of the certification fee.
(3)
The renewal fee shall be $300.00.
(4)
Maintenance and portable sanitation:
a.
Annual permits (includes one truck: $250.00.
b.
Inspection fee (each additional truck): $100.00.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority, O.C.G.A. §§ 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-147. - Decertification of portable sanitation contractors and companies.
(a)
The department may take disciplinary action, including suspension and revocation of the certification if the Department finds that the contractor or company has failed to comply or maintain compliance with O.C.G.A. Title 31 or this article, or has committed any of the following acts:
(1)
Misrepresentation or falsification of information on any application or document submitted to the department or any health authority; or
(2)
Conviction in any court of a felony or crime of moral turpitude. In the case of a corporation or other business entity, this provision shall apply in the event of such a conviction of any person associated with the company as an owner, partner, officer, director, or manager.
(b)
The holder of any certification that is revoked under this rule shall not be eligible for recertification for a period of at least 24 months. In the case of a Portable Sanitation Company, this provision also shall apply to partners, co-owners, officers, directors, and stockholders of corporate providers involved in the company.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority: O.C.G.A. Sections 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
Sec. 22-148. - Appendix.
Table 1: Minimum Number of Portable Sanitation Units at Construction Sites
EXPAND
Number of Workers* Minimum Number of Units Serviced Weekly**
20 or less…  1 Toilet per 20 Workers
21 or more…  1 Additional Toilet per 40 Workers
200 or more…  1 Additional Toilet per 50 Workers
    29 CFR 1926.51 OSHA Regulations for Toilets at Construction Sites
* The number of portable sanitation units required shall be determined by the maximum number of workers present on a regular 8 hour shift. Shifts lasting longer than 8 hours (40 hour work week) should double the number of portable sanitation units.
** "Servicing" refers to the emptying of waste and the cleaning of the portable sanitation unit.
Table 2. Portable Sanitation Units for Special Events Planning
EXPAND
AVERAGE
CROWD
SIZE AVERAGE HOURS AT THE EVENT
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
500 2 4 4 5 6 7 9 9 10 12
1,000 4 6 8 8 9 9 11 12 13 13
2,000 5 6 9 12 14 16 18 20 23 25
3,000 6 9 12 16 20 24 26 30 34 38
4,000 8 13 16 22 25 30 35 40 45 50
5,000 12 15 20 25 31 38 44 50 56 63
10,000 15 25 38 50 63 75 88 100 113 125
15,000 20 38 56 75 94 113 131 150 169 188
20,000 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 225 250
25,000 38 69 99 130 160 191 221 252 282 313
30,000 46 82 119 156 192 229 266 302 339 376
35,000 53 96 139 181 224 267 310 352 395 438
40,000 61 109 158 207 256 305 354 403 452 501
45,000 68 123 178 233 288 343 398 453 508 563
50,000 76 137 198 259 320 381 442 503 564 626
55,000 83 150 217 285 352 419 486 554 621 688
60,000 91 164 237 311 384 457 531 604 677 751
65,000 98 177 257 336 416 495 575 654 734 813
70,000 106 191 277 362 448 533 619 704 790 876
75,000 113 205 296 388 480 571 663 755 846 938
80,000 121 218 316 414 512 609 707 805 903 1,001
85,000 128 232 336 440 544 647 751 855 959 1,063
90,000 136 246 356 466 576 686 796 906 1,016 1126
95,000 143 259 375 491 607 724 840 956 1,072 1,188
100,000 151 273 395 517 639 762 884 1,006 1,128 1,251
    Based on "Portable Restroom Requirements at Special Events and Crowd Gatherings" Center for Business and Industrial Studies, University of Missouri-St. Louis
•
Determine the appropriate potable sanitation units needed form the table above.
•
For each sewered toilet available onsite, subtract 1 from the previously calculated number.
•
If alcoholic beverages are to be served, add 25% to the base number.
•
For peak crowd numbers that fall between chart numbers, round up to the next base number.
•
Units shall be provided in accordance with the Georgia Accessibility Code following state or local requirements.
•
Table based on units being serviced daily.
( Ord. of 5-17-2016(2) )
State Law reference— Authority: O C G.A. Sections 31-2A-6, 31-12-8, 31-27-9, 12-8-1.
