ARTICLE IX. - APPEALS, MODIFICATIONS AND VARIANCES

Sec. 16-101. - Modifications.
Modification of the design standards set forth in these regulations may be authorized by the administrator in specific cases when, in his opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance; provided any such determination shall be based fundamentally on the fact that unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions require such modification, or that the granting of the modification will not adversely affect the general public welfare or nullify the intent of these regulations. Any such modification granted shall be made in writing to the applicant and also made a part of the county's records. Application for any modifications shall be filed in writing on a form provided by the county with necessary supporting documents and shall explain in detail the reasons and facts supporting the application.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-102. - Variances.
Variance requests from the requirements of these regulations shall be submitted on an application form as provided by the county, along with such fees as shall be established and which may be amended by the board of commissioners from time-to-time. The administrator shall coordinate the review of each variance request by all other affected county departments and shall summarize such comments or recommendations as may be received. In the event the administrator shall decline to grant the variance then he shall provide all information gathered to the planning commission, together with a summary of his reasons for refusing the request. The administrator is authorized to grant minor variances based upon the criteria provided herein. Minor variances are defined herein as variances of up to 25 percent of the code requirements as to all code requirements except those set out in section 16-73. Minor variances as to section 16-73 are defined as variances of up to ten percent of the code requirements.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Sec. 16-103. - Appeals.
(a)
Administrator and planning commission. Appeals of the interpretation of the administrator of the requirements of these regulations or appeals from his refusal to grant a modification or a variance shall first be submitted in writing to the planning commission who shall review the request in a timely manner and receive comments from other affected departments. The appeal shall be forwarded to the planning commission for final action in their normal course of business.
(b)
Planning commission, duties and power. The planning commission shall have the power to hear and decide the following types of appeals and applications and to such end shall have the necessary authority to ensure continuing compliance with its decisions.
(1)
Interpretation. To render an interpretation of this article and the manner of its application where it is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, or determination made by the administrator in the administration of such provisions. In reaching its decision, the planning commission shall establish firm guidelines for future administrative actions on similar or like manners.
(2)
Variance. To authorize upon an appeal in specific cases such variance from this article as will not be contrary to the intent of this code, nor detrimental to the public interest and welfare. Variances from the terms of this article may be granted on appeal by the planning commission if it finds:
a.
That the literal enforcement of this article will create an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty in the development of the affected property; except
b.
That mere loss in property value shall not justify a variance—there must be a deprivation of a reasonable, beneficial use of land; and
c.
That the situation causing the hardship or difficulty is neither self-imposed nor generally affecting all or most properties within the general vicinity; and
d.
That the relief sought will not injure the permitted use of adjacent conforming property; and will not unreasonably reduce the fair market value of any adjacent property;
e.
That the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the spirit and purposes of these codes; and
f.
In no event will a business or other commercial use be allowed any closer to an existing residence or residential subdivision without notice of the public hearing being provided in writing by certified mail to all owners located within the code required setback specified in these codes; unless such a variance would constitute a minor variance as defined in paragraph 16-102.
g.
In reviewing an appeal for variance, the burden of showing that the variance should be granted shall be the responsibility of the party applying for the variance. Any variance granted by the planning commission shall terminate automatically when the use ceases to be in full compliance with any conditions imposed by the planning commission, when the use has been abandoned, or when the building permit shall have expired.
h.
Any additional factors set forth in section 16-103(g).
(c)
Application for appeal to planning commission. A request for an interpretation of this article or an appeal for variance from its terms may be taken by any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved, or by any officer, department, or board of the county, affected by a decision or order of the administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within fifteen (15) days after the decision has been rendered by filing with the administrator and the planning commission a notice of appeal specifying the grounds therefor. The administrator shall forthwith transmit to the planning commission all papers constituting the record regarding the action appealed.
Any appeal or application may be withdrawn upon written notice to the administrator and the planning commission but no appeal shall be withdrawn after a notice of public hearing has been posted without the written consent of the planning commission.
(d)
Public hearing. Upon receipt of a request for appeal proceedings, the planning commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an appeal and shall give, or cause to be given to the Appellant notice of the date and time of the hearing. Appellant shall give, or cause to be given, a public notice thereof by means of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the county at least 15 days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. In the event the appeal concerns article six hereof, then appellant shall also provide written notice of said hearing by personal delivery of noticed or delivery by certified mail, return receipt requested, to all property owners who are adjacent to the property under appeal and to all property owners who fall within any questioned residential set back distances. Such notices shall be delivered so as to provide not less than ten days advance notice of the hearing. The appellant shall provide evidence of substantial compliance with the notice requirements to the planning commission.
Said notice shall contain the time, date, and place of the hearing and a general statement as to the nature of the appeal request, the location of the property affected, if any, as well as the name of the appellant. Public hearings shall be governed by policies and procedures set forth in section 16-103(f).
(e)
Decision of planning commission. The planning commission shall decide upon an appeal request within 30 days after the date of the public hearing.
(1)
Findings of fact. Every decision of the planning commission shall be based upon findings of fact and every finding of fact shall be supported in a record of the proceedings. The enumerated conditions required to exist on any matter upon which the planning commission is authorized to pass under this section shall be construed as limitations on the power of the planning commission to act.
(2)
Approval of request. In approving any request the planning commission may designate such conditions in connection therewith in order to secure substantially the objectives of the regulation or provision to which such variance is granted and to provide adequately for the maintenance of the integrity and character of the area in which permit is granted.
(3)
Denial of request. No appeal or application for appeal that has been denied shall be further considered by the planning commission until a subsequent request is obtained by filing of new plans and a decision rendered thereon by the administrator.
(4)
Appeals from decision of the planning commission. Any person or persons, jointly or separately aggrieved by any decision of the planning commission may present to the county commissioners an appeal, following the procedures set out for an initial appeal. Such petition shall be presented to the county clerk/administrator within ten working days after the rendering of the decision by the planning commission and not thereafter, unless an extension be granted by the county commission.
(5)
Appeals from decision of the county commission. Any person or persons, jointly or separately aggrieved by any decision of the county commission may present to the superior court, a petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within ten working days after the rendering of the decision by the county commission and not thereafter, unless an extension be granted by either the county commission or a judge of superior court.
(f)
Policies and procedures governing the calling and conducting of public hearings.
(1)
Whenever Baldwin County proposes to take any action resulting in a zoning decision as defined in O.C.G.A. Chapter 36-66 it shall provide for a public hearing on the proposed action. At least 15, but not more than 45, days prior to the date of the hearing, Baldwin County shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the county a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing. Substantial compliance with this requirement shall satisfy this procedure for calling and conducting public hearings, so long as all of the requirements of said chapter 36-66 are complied with.
(2)
It is the policy of Baldwin County that public hearings shall be conducted in such manner as to afford the most complete public input possible. The person conducting the meeting shall announce at the beginning of the meeting any limitations that may be required due to the nature of the issues or the number of persons appearing. The policy shall be that if time and numbers permit any person who indicates a desire to speak to the issues be given a reasonable opportunity to do so. If the numbers of persons attending indicate the need, then the person conducting the meeting may request that those persons desiring to speak sign a roster for that purpose. It is the policy of the county to request that any group that appears be represented by a spokesperson who will be recognized to present the position of the group. Any speakers who follow will be requested to address only issues not previously covered or positions not previously stated. Personal attacks, interruptions of the recognized speaker, inappropriate language, and remarks which extend beyond a reasonable time will not be allowed.
(g)
Standards for evaluation. Before enacting an amendment to this ordinance the board of commissioners (or planning commission as to variances, modifications, and recommendations for amendments) shall consider the following standards in evaluating such requests or proposals as factors relevant in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property.
(1)
Existing uses in the neighborhood and of nearby property;
(2)
The extent to which the destruction of property values of the applicants promotes the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public;
(3)
The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular restrictions;
(4)
The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner;
(5)
The suitability of the subject property for the allowed purposes.
( Ord. of 12-3-2019(2) )
Secs. 16-104—16-110. - Reserved.
