ARTICLE VI. - PERSONNEL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-212. - Status of present employees.
Nothing herein shall preclude the reclassification or reallocation as provided by this law of any position held by any incumbent.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. VIII)
Secs. 2-213—2-231. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERSONNEL SYSTEM

Sec. 2-232. - Responsibility of mayor.
(a)
The mayor shall be responsible for the administration of the personnel system adopted herein and shall direct all of its administrative and technical activities. It shall be his duty to:
(1)
Draft or have drafted new or changed personnel policies for submission to the council;
(2)
Advise the council on manpower needs and utilization;
(3)
Foster and develop programs for the improvement of employee effectiveness including training, safety, health, and other services;
(4)
Establish and maintain records of all employees in the city government service, in which there will be set forth as to each employee the class, title, pay status, and other relevant data;
(5)
Apply and carry out this division and the policies, rules, and regulations adopted and promulgated thereunder, and to perform any other lawful act which may be necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes and provisions of this division.
(b)
The mayor or his authorized agent shall be responsible for certification of the payroll vouchers that the persons named therein have been appointed and employed in accordance with the provisions of this division and the policies adopted thereunder. No city disbursing and auditing officer shall make or approve, or take any part in making or approving, any payment for personal services to any persons holding a position in the city unless said payroll voucher or account of such pay, bears the certification of the mayor or his authorized agent.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. I, § 2)
Sec. 2-233. - Employees and positions subject to provisions.
The provisions of this division shall be applicable to all employees and positions in the city now existing or hereafter established, except as provided below:
(1)
The members of the council and other elected officials.
(2)
Members of boards and commissions, the city attorney, and judges.
(3)
Persons employed to make or conduct a temporary and/or special inquiry, investigation, or examination on behalf of the council, committee thereof, or the mayor.
(4)
Part-time, seasonal, or otherwise temporary positions unless specifically covered by action of the council or mayor.
(5)
Positions which by their nature (confidential and/or key policy-making) cannot or should not appropriately be included in the classification system are also exempted.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. I, § 3)
Secs. 2-234—2-259. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CLASSIFICATION PLAN

Sec. 2-260. - Creation and coverage.
The mayor and council shall, by resolution, promulgate, adopt, amend a classification plan for employees which shall include all permanent classes of positions except those exempted under division.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. II, § 1)
Sec. 2-261. - Maintenance.
(a)
The mayor will be responsible for the administration and maintenance of the position classification plan. The mayor shall consider:
(1)
The need for new positions; and
(2)
Material changes in the nature of duties, responsibilities, working conditions, or other factors affecting the classification of any existing position.
Following the receipt of such information concerning any existing or proposed position, the mayor shall restudy the position.
(b)
New positions shall be established only with the approval of the governing body, after which the mayor shall either:
(1)
Allocate the new position to the appropriate class within the existing classification plan; or
(2)
Recommend that the governing body amend the position classification plan to establish a new class to which the new position may be allocated.
(c)
When the mayor finds that a substantial change has occurred in the nature of the duties and responsibilities of an existing position, the mayor shall either:
(1)
Recommend that the existing class specification be revised;
(2)
Reallocate the position to the appropriate class within the existing classification plan; or
(3)
Recommend that the council amend the classification plan in order to establish a new class to which the position may be allocated.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. II, § 2)
Sec. 2-262. - Abolishment of position, effect thereof.
(a)
A position may be abolished or the number of personnel reduced by the council for reasons of economy or for reasons of a reorganization within a department. Every effort shall be made to reassign any affected permanent employee to another position in the city service for which the employee may be qualified. If no such position is available immediately, the name of the affected employee shall be kept on file and he shall be offered employment should a vacancy occur in a position for which he is qualified, prior to offering the position to any new applicant.
(b)
If an employee is demoted because of economy or departmental reorganization, he shall be placed in a new salary grade in the same step he held in his position before demotion.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. II, § 3)
Secs. 2-263—2-288. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - SALARY PLAN

Sec. 2-289. - Creation and coverage.
The mayor and council shall, by resolution, promulgate, adopt, and amend a schedule of salary ranges which shall apply to all classes of positions included in the classification plan.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 1)
Sec. 2-290. - Maintenance.
(a)
The mayor shall be responsible for the administration and maintenance of the salary plan. Each year prior to the preparation of the annual budget, the mayor may, for comparison, secure information concerning the general level of salaries and fringe benefits provided in private industry in the area, the salaries and fringe benefits provided to comparable municipal, county and state employees, and any change in the cost of living in the area during the fiscal year.
(b)
The mayor shall conduct continuing studies of the internal relationships between classes in order to eliminate inadequacies between classes of positions. Based on the above studies, the mayor shall recommend to the council such increases, reductions, or amendments of the salary plan as he deems necessary to maintain the fairness and adequacy of the salary plan.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 2)
Sec. 2-291. - Payment at a listed rate.
All employees covered by the salary plan shall be paid at a listed rate within the salary ranges established for their respective job classifications except employees in a trainee status, or employees whose present salaries are above the established maximum rate following transition to the new salary plan.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 4)
Sec. 2-292. - Entrance at the minimum.
Each new employee shall be appointed at the minimum salary which has been established for the classification in which he is employed except:
(1)
If the new employee does not meet the minimum requirements of the position and qualified applicants for the position are not available, the mayor may designate the employee as a trainee to be appointed at a salary below the minimum;
(2)
When the mayor shall determine that there has been a demonstrated inability to recruit at the minimum salary or that an applicant possesses exceptional qualifications, the mayor may authorize the employment of an applicant at a higher rate than the minimum in the salary range.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 5)
Sec. 2-293. - Salary of a trainee.
A new employee who does not meet all of the established qualifications for a position may be appointed with approval of the mayor at a training salary no more than two steps below the minimum salary established for the position, the employee shall continue to receive a reduced salary during the work test period until the mayor shall determine that the trainee is qualified to assume the responsibilities of the position, or until the end of the work to a listed rate in the salary range for the position.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 6)
Sec. 2-294. - Earned salary increments.
(a)
Salary increases above the minimum established for each class of positions shall be granted only in recognition of superior or improved performance. The mayor shall each year include funds in the budget proposal for providing earned salary increments.
(b)
A salary increment given to any employee shall consist of no less than one full step in the salary range established for his class. Salary increments shall be effective only upon recommendation of the mayor with the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 7)
Sec. 2-295. - Salary of part-time employee.
The pay plan established by this division is for full-time employee service. An employee appointed for less than full-time service shall be paid at a rate determined by converting the established annual salary of the position into an hourly rate.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. III, § 12)
Secs. 2-296—2-318. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - RECORDS AND REPORTS[5]

Sec. 2-319. - Establishment and retention of records.
There shall be established and maintained such personnel records as the mayor deems necessary for the administration of the personnel system. The mayor shall prescribe the form and scope of these records. When not in conflict with state or federal laws, the mayor shall determine the time limit that personnel records shall be kept on file, and shall determine the final disposition of such records.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. IV, § 1)
Sec. 2-320. - Records open to public.
All personnel records except examinations, employee performance reports, personnel histories and such other as may be specified by the mayor and council as confidential, shall be public records and shall be open for public inspection during office hours and at reasonable times in accordance with such procedures as the mayor may prescribe.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. IV, § 2)
Sec. 2-321. - Employee performance reports.
The mayor shall initiate, as deemed necessary, all employee performance reports in such form and manner as outlined in the personnel policies. All reports of performance shall be reviewed and signed by employees prior to any personnel action that may result from these reports.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. IV, § 3)
Sec. 2-322. - Policies, rules, and regulations.
The mayor and city council shall from time to time promulgate, adopt, and amend, by resolution, such rules and regulations as it deems necessary to carry into effect the purpose of this division.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. V)
Secs. 2-323—2-347. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - UNLAWFUL ACTS PROHIBITED

Sec. 2-348. - False statements.
No persons shall make any false statements, certificate, mark or report with regard to any test, certification, or appointment made under any provision of this law or in any matter commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial execution of this law and policies.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. VI)
Sec. 2-349. - Soliciting or accepting consideration.
No person shall, directly or indirectly, give, render, pay, offer, solicit or accept any money, service, or other valuable consideration for any appointment, proposed appointment, promotion or proposed promotion to, or any advantage in, a position in the career service.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. VI)
Sec. 2-350. - Affecting rights of prospective employee.
No employee of the administrative services or other person shall defeat, deceive or obstruct any person in his right to examination, eligibility, certification or appointment under this law, or furnish to any person any special or secret information for the purpose of affecting the rights of prospects of any person with respect to employment with the city.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. VI)
Sec. 2-351. - Penalties.
Any person who willfully violates any provision of this law or of the personnel policies established thereunder may, upon action of the proper authority as outlined in the personnel policies, have one of the following judgments rendered:
(1)
Dismissal from city service.
(2)
Demotion in rank or grade.
(3)
Suspension for a period of time not to exceed 30 days.
(4)
Ineligibility for appointment to or employment in a position in the city service for a period of time to be specified when the employee is terminated.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. VII)
Secs. 2-352—2-377. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED

Sec. 2-378. - Reciprocal agreements.
The government is authorized and empowered to enter into reciprocal agreements upon such terms as may be agreed upon, for the use of equipment, materials, facilities, and services with any public agency or body for purposes deemed of benefit to the public personnel system.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. IX)
Sec. 2-379. - Cooperation with other governmental agencies.
The mayor may cooperate with other governmental agencies charged with public administration in conducting personnel tests, recruiting personnel, training personnel, establishing lists from which eligibles shall be certified for appointment and for the interchange of personnel and their benefits.
(Ord. of 1-8-1980, art. IX)
Secs. 2-380—2-401. - Reserved.
