ARTICLE VII. - BUDGET[6]

Sec. 2-402. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on January 1 and shall end on December 31 of each year. Such fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for fiscal accounting and reporting of every office, department, agency and activity of the city government, unless otherwise prohibited by law.
(Code 1975, § 3-401)
Sec. 2-403. - Proposed budget.
(a)
The various department heads shall on or before October 15 of each year submit to the mayor a budget request for their respective departments for the following fiscal year.
(b)
On or before November 15 of each year, the mayor shall submit to the council a proposed operating budget for the next fiscal year, showing separately for the general funds each utility, and each other fund the following year:
(1)
The revenue and expenditure during the preceding fiscal year;
(2)
Appropriations and estimated revenue and recommended expenditures for the next fiscal year;
(3)
A comparative statement of the assets, liabilities, reserves and surplus at the end of the current fiscal year; and
(4)
Such other information and data, as may be required by law and considered necessary by the mayor and council.
(Code 1975, § 3-402)
Sec. 2-404. - Action on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriate ordinance, based on the mayor 's budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council consider necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department, office, and agency unless otherwise directed by the mayor and council. The mayor and council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property, or lives, safety or general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, provided the mayor and council unanimously agree that there is such an emergency. If there is not adopted an appropriation ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment by an ordinance specifically passed for such purpose.
(Code 1975, § 3-403)
Sec. 2-405. - Capital improvements budget.
On or before November 15 of each year, the mayor shall submit to the governing body a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The mayor and council shall accept with or without amendments or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The mayor and council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work or improvement, unless the appropriations for such projects are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency threatening the lives, health or property of inhabitants, and passed by at least two-thirds of the mayor and council. Such capital improvements budget may be revised and extended each year with regard to the capital improvements still pending or in the process of construction or acquisition. Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the mayor and council shall adopt an appropriations ordinance based on the proposed capital improvements budget, with such modifications as the mayor and council consider necessary or desirable. No appropriation provided for in the capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned, provided, the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by a majority vote of the mayor and council.
(Code 1975, § 3-404)
Sec. 2-406. - Public inspection.
At the time the proposed budget is transmitted to members of the council by the mayor or his delegate, a copy of the proposed budget shall be made available for public inspection during regular office hours in the office of the city clerk.
Sec. 2-407. - Public hearing.
At the time of the submission of the budget to the mayor and council, a public notice advising the citizens of the city of the availability of the budget for review shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city. The notice shall be published as an advertisement instead of a legal notice and will further contain notice of the time and place of the budget hearing. The budget hearing shall be at least one week prior to the adoption of the budget and shall be open to all persons wishing to be heard on the budget.
Secs. 2-408—2-427. - Reserved.
