Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "The Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia" and may be so cited.
(Code 1975, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction and definitions.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified. In the construction of this Code and all ordinances found herein, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Mayor and Council of the City of Pearson or the context clearly requires otherwise.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Pearson, Georgia.
City limits. The term "city limits" means the corporate limits of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia, as designated in section in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day falls on a Saturday or Sunday then the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Council, city council. The term "the council" or "the city council" means the Mayor and Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Atkinson, Georgia.
Court or city court. The term "court" or "city court" means the Municipal Court, City of Pearson.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this Code requires the head of a department of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to males.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the Mayor and Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the recorder of the Municipal Court of the City of Pearson, except where otherwise stated.
Keeper, proprietor. The term "keeper" or "proprietor" means and includes persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits, corporation, city. The term "limits," "corporation" or "city" means the corporate limits of the city, the legal boundary of the city, except where the provision clearly intends otherwise.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the Mayor of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Mayor and council. The term "mayor and council" means the Mayor and Council of the City of Pearson, Georgia.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers, and departments. The name or title of any officer or department shall be read as though the words "of the City of Pearson" were added thereto.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing only the singular number may extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number may extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The term "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner" applied to a building or land includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or person in possession under a bond for title.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" means next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Seal. The term "seal" means the city seal.
Shall, may. The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature, subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the City of Person.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer. Whenever the title of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Pearson" were added.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Written, in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1975, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1975, § 1-103)
State Law reference— Historical notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred, or any right accrued, any offense committed, or any proceeding commenced, before the repeal took effect.
(Code 1975, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of the Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in the Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1975, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to and existing at the time of the effective date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1975, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to the passage of the ordinances originally included herein which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and added thereto. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and included, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section ____________ of The Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That The Code of the City of Pearson, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered ____________ , which said section (or article or chapter) reads as follows:…." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapter, or provisions desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1975, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code, ordinances or other public notice.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mutilate, or in any other manner alter the ordinance book, minutes, notices posted by the city for the benefit of the public, or any other documents or records of the municipal government of the city.
(Code 1975, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, and unless otherwise provided by state law, the violation as any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished according to the provisions of section 6.03 of the Charter of the city, which includes the imposition of fines, costs and forfeitures in an amount not to exceed $200.00, to imprison offenders for a period of not more than 60 days, or at labor on the roads and streets or other public works of said city for not more than 60 days; and the recorder shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of these punishments when he shall find that the facts of the case so justify. In addition, the recorder of the municipal court shall not have the authority to inflict a greater punishment for contempt than to impose a fine of $100.00, or imprisonment not exceeding 20 days, or any combination of the two. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1975, § 1-109)
State Law reference— Maximum sentences and fines which may be imposed for violation of municipal ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3.
Sec. 1-10. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution fixing the salary of any city officer or employee, unless superseded;
(5)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing employment and personnel policies and procedures;
(6)
Any right of franchise granted by the city to any person, firm, or corporation;
(7)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, closing, opening, widening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(8)
Any ordinance or resolution establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(9)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(10)
Any ordinance or resolution which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(11)
Any ordinance or resolution providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor.
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or amendments thereto, specifically the City of Pearson zoning ordinance, adopted January 12, 1999, as amended Ord. of 2-14-2000, § 70.1; Ord. of 5-11-2004, §§ 70.3, 71.3; Ord. of 02-14-2006, § 70.1(A); Ord. of 2-14-2006, §§ 70.1(A), 70.6; and Ord. of 2-21-2006, § 70.7), and any ordinance establishing a board of zoning appeals, board of architectural review, or planning commission, including joint commissions;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat or providing for subdivision regulations;
(14)
Any ordinance or resolution describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city;
(15)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(16)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(17)
Any ordinance or regulation prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations concerning through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, not in conflict or inconsistent with this Code;
(18)
Any ordinance or resolution of agreement with another political subdivision; and
(19)
Any other ordinance or resolution, or part thereof, which is not of a general and permanent nature; or which is referred to elsewhere in this Code as continuing in effect.
(b)
Nor shall the repeal of any such ordinance or resolution be construed to revive any ordinance, resolution or part thereof that has been repealed or superceded by a subsequent ordinance or resolution which is repealed or superseded by this chapter. All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
