Chapter 38 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Traffic, ch. 50.
State Law reference— Limitation on home rule powers of municipal corporations with respect to duplication of state criminal offenses, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2); Criminal Code of Georgia, O.C.G.A. § 16-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 38-1. - Interference with utility property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp, or other apparatus belonging to a company, the city, other political subdivision or governmental entity which is engaged in the manufacturing or sale of electricity, gas, water, telephone, cable or other public services; intentionally and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied; in any way to interfere with the proper action of such company, municipality or political subdivision; intentionally to divert any services of such company, municipality or political subdivision; or otherwise intentionally and without authority to use or cause to be used, without the consent of the company, municipality or political subdivision, any service manufactured, sold or distributed by the company, municipality or political subdivision.
(b)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts set forth in subsection (a) of this section and the person who, with knowledge of such violation, receives the benefit of such service without proper charge as a result of the improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for the act of tampering or diversion.
(c)
Proof that any of the acts specified in this section were done on premises in possession of the accused or that the accused received the benefit of any such act shall be prima facie evidence that the accused committed such act or aided or abetted, in the commission thereof.
(d)
Each day in which these acts occur or in which some person receives the benefit of any such acts shall be cumulative and be considered separate violations of this section.
(e)
Any person found guilty of violation of this section shall be punished pursuant to the provisions of section 1-11.
Sec. 38-2. - Disorderly conduct.
Disorderly conduct shall consist of conduct in violation of any one or more of the following subsections:
(1)
Any person who shall use fighting words, directed toward any person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil.
(2)
Any person who shall by acts of violence interfere with another person's pursuit of lawful occupation.
(3)
Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a police officer or any official of the department of public safety, mayor, or other authorized officer.
(4)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his life, limb or health.
(5)
Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed.
(6)
Any person discharging a gun, pistol or any other type of firearm within the city, except in direct defense of habitat, without the written permission of the mayor, director of public safety, or any police officer of the department of public safety of the city.
(7)
Any person who consumes alcoholic beverages, beer, liquor or wine, when such consumption occurs openly on any street or public place within the city. The possession of opened alcoholic beverage containers, beer, wine, or liquor, with contents therein by any person not within the confines of a residence or private building, shall constitute prima facie evidence of violation of this section, and the burden shall be cast upon the defendant to prove innocence of a charge or charges of the violation thereof.
(8)
Any person who verbally or otherwise commits any act in the presence of a police officer that is violent, tumultuous, immoral, disrespectful or that subjects the police officer to ridicule in any manner.
(9)
Any person who would expose themselves in any way that would be deemed indecent.
(10)
Any person who would commit or participate in any act, in or on any public place, that would be deemed immoral.
(11)
Any person who shall be and appear to be intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicants, to a degree that is not the standard known as the norm for the general population of the city, in any public place, street, alley, recreational park, or any place owned, operated, or leased to or leased by the city, or on any property owned by another, not his own, other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant.
Sec. 38-3. - Vandalism.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly vandalize, destroy, defile, mar, mutilate, deface, disfigure, or otherwise alter the normal appearance of any structure, sign, statue, monument, or other item, or any property belonging to, leased by, or leased to any citizen of the city or any company or person doing business of any type within the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly attempt to vandalize, destroy, defile, mar, mutilate, deface, disfigure, or otherwise alter the normal appearance of any structure, sign, statue, monument, or other item, or any property belonging to, leased by, or leased to any citizen of the city or any company or person doing business of any type within the city.
(c)
A person, upon conviction of violation of this section, shall be held responsible for any and all damages that were incurred by the legal owner of such property. An itemized list of all damages and/or expenses shall be submitted to the judge of the court charged with hearing the offense.
Sec. 38-4. - Loitering.
It shall be unlawful, and it is declared to be a nuisance, for any person to remain or loiter upon any premises to which the public has access, without the owner's permission, including, but not limited to, such premises as shopping center parking lots, church parking lots, service station parking lots, private business establishment parking lots, and private individual's driveways, within the city between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., each night, where the person's presence upon such premises is unrelated to the normal activity, use or business for which such premises are made available to the public, and when:
(1)
The owner of the premises has made a dedication of his premises to the city for the limited purpose of enforcement of this section.
(2)
The owner of the premises has made a written request to the city that the provisions of this section be enforced as to his premises.
(3)
The owner of the premises has erected, at his own expense, signs on his premises giving notice to the public in substantially the following form:
"No parking or loitering is allowed on these premises between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., by order of the Police Department of the City of Nelson."
Sec. 38-5. - Discharging BB and other similar guns.
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot BB guns, pellet guns, airguns, parlor rifles or rubber rifles in the city without the consent of the chief of police.
Sec. 38-6. - Heads of households to maintain firearms.
(a)
In order to provide for the emergency management of the city, and further in order to provide for and protect the safety, security and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, every head of household residing in the city limits is required to maintain a firearm, together with ammunition therefor.
(b)
Exempt from the effect of this section are those heads of households who suffer a physical or mental disability which would prohibit them from using such a firearm. Further exempt from the effect of this section are those heads of households who are paupers or who conscientiously oppose maintaining firearms as a result of beliefs or religious doctrine, or persons convicted of a felony.
(c)
Because the United States Constitution protects the rights of Americans to choose not to own or maintain a gun in their homes, subsections (a) and (b) of the Family Protection Ordinance are not enforceable and shall never be enforced and no disability, penalty or adverse consequence shall attach to any violation thereof.
(Ord. of 4-1-2013(1); Ord. of 9-3-2013)
Secs. 38-7—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CURFEW OF MINORS

Sec. 38-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency errand means a mission that results from an unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Minor means any unemancipated person under the age of 16 years.
Public place means any place to which the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleys or rights-of-way, including sidewalks, parks, playgrounds, malls, or other places or buildings open to the public; any cemeteries, schoolyards, bodies of water or watercourses; any privately or publicly owned places of amusement, entertainment or public accommodation including parking lots, and any vacant lot or land.
School day means any day of the week in which school is in session and students are normally expected to attend. This term does not include any religious holidays for which a student's professed religion prohibits such student from school attendance.
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 38-32. - Imposed.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any public place unsupervised by a parent, guardian or other adult 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor and having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. on any school day. It shall further be unlawful for any minor to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in any public place unsupervised by his parent, legal guardian or other adult over the age of 21 having the lawful authority to be at such places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any day and 5:00 a.m. the following day; provided, however, that on Fridays and Saturdays the evening curfew shall begin at 12:00 midnight. The provisions of this section shall not apply when any such minor:
(1)
Is accompanied by his parent, guardian, or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of such minor;
(2)
Is upon an emergency errand directed by his parent, guardian, or other adult person 21 years of age or older having the lawful care and custody of the minor;
(3)
Is traveling directly from home to lawful employment or returning directly home from lawful employment during the prescribed period of time;
(4)
Is engaged in interstate and intrastate vehicular travel through the city with parental consent, and with no intent to stop or sojourn in the city;
(5)
Is enrolled in a valid home study program as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, and has written consent from a parent or legal guardian to be outside the home;
(6)
Has graduated from high school;
(7)
Has written proof from school authorities that he is excused from school attendance at that particular time; or
(8)
Is participating in an approved school or study activity which requires the minor to be off school property.
Sec. 38-33. - Responsibility of parent, guardian.
It shall be unlawful for the parent or legal guardian of a minor under the age of 16 years of age to permit, by insufficient control, to allow the minor to violate section 38-32. A person charged with violation of this section for the first time shall be given a warning citation.
