ARTICLE III. - CODE ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 2-99. - Established.
There is hereby created the position of code enforcement officer, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20, pertaining to the power of the governing authority of the county to enact ordinances for governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county.
Sec. 2-100. - Responsibility.
The duties of the position of code enforcement officer shall be as follows:
(1)
The enforcement of all ordinances contained within the Code for the county.
(2)
The issuance of citations for violations of said Code, in order to ensure compliance with said Code. Any such citations issued by a code enforcement officer shall contain a summons and shall be prosecuted as set forth in said Code through the county state court.
(3)
Each code enforcement officer shall further perform such other administrative and enforcement duties as may be assigned by the city administrator or his designee.
Sec. 2-101. - Enforcement of ordinances.
(a)
The position of code enforcement officer shall have the authority to enforce all county ordinances, including those ordinances that expressly give enforcement power to the county marshal's department. Any reference to the county marshal or the county marshal's department with respect to the enforcement of county ordinances in this Code shall also be read to include the position of code enforcement officer.
(b)
Each and every officer or official of the county authorized to issue citations by section 2-1 or by any other applicable portion of this Code shall retain their individual authority to cite persons for violations of the Code for the county, and nothing contained herein shall in any manner delete or remove any authority given to any other officer or official pursuant to the Code for the county. Further, the position of code enforcement officer and the authority to cite person for violations of this Code is created in order to provide an additional source by which persons found to be in violation of any part or parts of the code shall be compelled to comply with the same.
Sec. 2-102. - Oath.
Before assuming the position of code enforcement officer, an individual shall take the following oath:
"I swear (or affirm) that I will well, faithfully, and impartially and without fear, favor, or affection discharge my duties as code enforcement officer for Fayette County."
(Ord. No. 2013-04, § 1, 6-27-2013)
Secs. 2-103—2-132. - Reserved.
