ARTICLE V. - PROCEDURES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE MECHANICAL CODE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 102-759. - Title.
The provisions of this article apply to the International Mechanical Code, as adopted in section 102-22. In this article the term "mechanical code" means the International Mechanical Code as adopted in section 102-22.
(Code 1992, § 5-301; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-760. - Scope.
(a)
The provisions of the mechanical code shall apply to the design, installation, maintenance, alteration and inspection of mechanical systems that are permanently installed and utilized to provide control of environmental conditions and related processes within buildings. This code shall also regulate those mechanical systems, system components, equipment and appliances specifically addressed herein. The installation of fuel gas distribution piping and equipment, fuel-gas-fired appliances and fuel-gas-fired appliance venting systems shall be regulated by the International Fuel Gas Code. Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three stories high with separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the International Residential Code.
(b)
Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
(c)
Appendix C Design and Installation of Residential Flexible Ductwork Systems—Adopted. Appendix C Design and Installation of Residential Flexible Ductwork Systems of the Georgia State Amendments to the International Mechanical Code (2006 edition), revised January 1, 2007, is hereby adopted.
(Code 1992, § 5-302; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-761. - Intent.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of the mechanical code is to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation and maintenance or use of mechanical systems. The purpose of the mechanical code is not to create or otherwise establish or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be especially protected or benefitted by the terms of the mechanical code.
(b)
Public duty, warranty and quality control. The permitting, plans examination or inspection conducted with regard to a mechanical system or equipment in accordance with the mechanical code constitutes a public duty and does not warrant or ensure the absence of any hazard, deficiency or other matter. Any duty created by or based on the mechanical code is transferred to the public, and no private cause of action is created by a breach of such duty. The mechanical shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person, firm or corporation owning, operating or controlling any mechanical system or equipment for any damages to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall the department of mechanical inspection or the county be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections or plans examinations authorized by the mechanical code or any permits or certificates issued under the mechanical code. The code official checks for substantial compliance with the mechanical code, but reviews and inspections performed by the code official pursuant to this chapter do not create any guarantee or warranty that mechanical systems or equipment have been constructed in accordance with all provisions of the mechanical code. The permitting, plans examination, or inspection of any mechanical system or equipment or construction document shall not be construed as a warranty of the physical condition or adequacy of such mechanical system or equipment or construction document, including without limitation a representation or warranty that a mechanical system or equipment is complete, that it is in compliance with the mechanical code or any other law, that it was inspected, that it is safe or ready for occupancy or that it meets any particular degree of quality or workmanship. Quality control of materials and workmanship is not within the purview of the mechanical code except as it relates to the purposes stated therein. The amount and quality of inspection and other services provided is discretionary with the code official and may vary in response to the amount of staff, work load, training and experience, funding and other pertinent factors affecting whether and how inspection is made or whether any hazard, deficiency or similar matter is observed.
(Code 1992, § 5-303; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-762. - Existing installations.
Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, a provision in the mechanical code shall not require the removal, alteration or abandonment of, nor prevent the continued utilization and maintenance of, a mechanical system lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption of the mechanical code.
(Code 1992, § 5-304; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-763. - Maintenance.
Mechanical systems, both existing and new, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in proper operating condition in accordance with the original design in a safe and sanitary condition. All device or safeguards required by the mechanical code shall be maintained in compliance with the mechanical code edition under which they were installed. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for maintenance of mechanical systems. To determine compliance with this provision, the code official shall have the authority to require a mechanical system to be reinspected.
(Code 1992, § 5-305; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-764. - Additions, alterations or repairs.
Additions, alterations, renovations or repairs to a mechanical system shall conform to that required for a new mechanical system without requiring the existing mechanical system to comply with all the requirements of the mechanical code. Additions, alterations or repairs shall not cause an existing mechanical system to become unsafe, unsanitary or overloaded. Minor additions, alterations, renovations and repairs to existing mechanical systems shall be permitted in the same manner and arrangement as in the existing system, provided that such repairs or replacements are not hazardous and are approved.
(Code 1992, § 5-306; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-765. - Change in occupancy.
It shall be unlawful to make any change in the occupancy of any structure that will subject the structure to any special provision of the mechanical code without approval of the code official. The code official shall certify that such structure meets the intent of the provisions of law governing building construction for the proposed new occupancy and that such change of occupancy does not result in any hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
(Code 1992, § 5-307; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-766. - Historic buildings.
The provisions of the mechanical code relating to the construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings or structures shall not be mandatory for existing buildings or structures identified and classified by the state or local jurisdiction as historic buildings when such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare regarding any proposed construction, alteration, repair, enlargement, restoration, relocation or moving of buildings.
(Code 1992, § 5-308; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-767. - Moved buildings.
Except as determined by section 102-762, mechanical systems that are a part of buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of the mechanical code for new installations.
(Code 1992, § 5-309; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-768. - Requirements not covered by mechanical code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing or proposed mechanical system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by the mechanical code shall be determined by the code official.
(Code 1992, § 5-310; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-769. - Severability.
If any action, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of the mechanical code is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the mechanical code.
(Code 1992, § 5-311; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Secs. 102-770—102-791. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS

Sec. 102-792. - When required.
Any owner, authorized agent or contractor who intends to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace a mechanical system, the installation of which is regulated by the mechanical code, or to cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the code official and obtain the required permit. Exception: Where equipment and appliance replacements or repairs must be performed in an emergency situation, the permit application shall be submitted within the next business day of the department of mechanical inspection. For the purposes of this section, emergency shall be defined as an unexpected situation requiring prompt action to safeguard life or limb, health, property and public welfare. This section shall not be construed as allowing work to be done without a permit to restore comfort and convenience items, equipment or systems. Emergency work performed shall not be done contrary to the provisions of the mechanical code. If a licensed contractor performs work without obtaining any necessary permit, there is a rebuttable presumption that the contractor willfully and deliberately violated the building laws of this jurisdiction.
(Code 1992, § 5-321; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-793. - Permits not required.
Permits shall not be required for the following:
(1)
Portable heating appliances;
(2)
Portable ventilation appliances and equipment;
(3)
Portable cooling units;
(4)
Steam, hot water or chilled water piping within any heating or cooling equipment or appliances regulated by the mechanical code;
(5)
The replacement of any minor part that does not alter the approval of equipment or an appliance or make such equipment or appliance unsafe;
(6)
Portable evaporative coolers;
(7)
Self-contained refrigeration systems that contain ten pounds (4.5 kg) or less of refrigerant, or that are actuated by motors of one horsepower (0.75 kW) or less; and
(8)
Portable fuel cell appliances that are not connected to a fixed piping system and are not interconnected to a power grid.
Exemption from the permit requirements of the mechanical code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the provisions the mechanical code or any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
(Code 1992, § 5-322; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-794. - Application for permit.
(a)
Required. Each application for a permit, with the required fee, shall be file with the code official on a form furnished for that purpose and shall contain a general description of the proposed work and its location. The application shall be signed by the owner or an authorized agent. The permit application shall indicate the proposed occupancy of all parts of the building and of that portion of the site or lot, if any, not covered by the building or structure and shall contain such other information required by the code official.
(b)
Construction documents. The code official shall examine or cause to be examined the accompanying construction documents and shall ascertain by such examinations whether the construction indicated and described is in accordance with the requirements of the mechanical code and other pertinent laws or ordinances. Construction documents, engineering calculations, diagrams and other such data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each application for a permit. The code official shall require construction documents, computations and specifications to be prepared and designed by a registered design professional where required by state law. Where special conditions exist, the code official is authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional. Construction documents shall be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that the work conforms to the provisions of the mechanical code. Construction documents for buildings more than two stories in height shall indicate where penetrations will be made for mechanical systems and the materials and methods for maintaining required structural safety, fire-resistance rating and fireblocking. Sketches and pencil or other erasable media used to prepare construction documents shall not be accepted by the code official. Exception: The code official is authorized to waive the submission of construction documents, calculations or other data if the nature of the work applied for is such that review of construction documents is not necessary to determine compliance with the mechanical code. The code official shall establish policies and procedures for the minimum standards of acceptance for construction documents.
(c)
Action on application. The code official shall examine or cause to be examined applications for permits and amendments thereto within a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the construction documents do not conform to the requirements of pertinent laws, the code official shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the code official is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of the mechanical code and laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the code official shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
(d)
Time limitation of application. An application for a permit for any proposed work or operation shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days after the date of filing, unless such application has been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; except that the code official is authorized to grant one extension of time for an additional period not exceeding 180 days. No application shall be extended more than once. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. A request for an extension must be received by the code official prior to the expiration of the application. The code official is not required to notify the applicant prior to the application(s expiration or that the application has expired.
(Code 1992, § 5-323; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-795. - Permit issuance.
(a)
Review by code official. The application, construction documents and other data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of the mechanical code and all laws and ordinances applicable thereto, and that the fees specified in section 102-796 have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the applicant.
(b)
Approved construction documents. When the code official issues a permit where construction documents are required, the construction documents shall be approved, in writing and stamped "Reviewed For Code Compliance." Such approved construction documents shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization form the code official. All work shall be done in accordance with the approved construction documents. The code official is authorized to issue a permit for the construction of a part of a mechanical system before the construction documents for the whole system have been submitted or approved, provided that adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with pertinent requirements of the mechanical code. The holder of such permit for the foundation or other parts of a building or structure shall proceed at the holder's own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire mechanical system will be granted.
(c)
Amended construction documents. Work shall be installed in accordance with the approved construction documents, and any changes made during construction that are not in compliance with the approved construction documents shall be resubmitted for approval as an amended set of construction documents. Willful and prejudicial departure from or disregard of construction documents in any material respect without the approval of the code official is unlawful.
(d)
Validity. The issuance of a permit or approval of construction documents shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of the mechanical code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the mechanical code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit based on construction documents and other data shall not prevent the code official from requiring the correction of errors in the construction documents and other data or from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of the mechanical code or of other ordinances of this jurisdiction. The code official is also authorized to prevent occupancy or use of a structure where in violation of the mechanical code or of any other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
(e)
Expiration. Every permit issued shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days. A minimum of one inspection approval must be obtained as evidence that work was commenced or that work has continued. The determination as to whether work was suspended shall be based on the most recent inspection approval date.
(f)
Extensions. The code official is authorized to grant, in writing, one extension of time for an additional period of not more than 180 days provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original construction documents for such work. No permit shall be extended more than once. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. Requests for extensions must be received by the code official prior to the expiration of the permit. The code official is not required to notify the permittee prior to the permit's expiration or that the permit has expired. The fee for an extension shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work.
(g)
Suspension or revocation of permit. The code official shall revoke a permit or approval issued under the provisions of the mechanical code in case of any false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application or on the construction documents upon which the permit or approval was based.
(h)
Retention of construction documents. One set of construction documents shall be retained by the code official until final approval of the work covered therein. One set of approved construction documents shall be returned to the applicant, and said set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
(i)
Placement of permit. Work for which a permit is required shall not be commenced until the building permit or copy thereof is posted on the site of the work until the completion of the project. The posted permit shall be visible from the street and maintained in such location by the permittee until final approval has been granted by the code official.
(j)
Responsibility. It shall be the duty of every person who performs work for which the mechanical code is applicable, to comply with the mechanical code.
(k)
Inspection record card and approved construction documents. Work for which a permit is required shall not be commenced until the permittee has made available approved construction documents on the premises and in such a position to allow the code official convenient access and use. These items shall be protected from the elements and maintained in such location by the permittee until final approval has been granted by the code official.
(l)
Work without a permit; investigation required. Whenever any work for which a permit is required has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a stop work order shall be issued pursuant to division 4 of this article and a special investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
(Code 1992, § 5-324; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2019-08 , § 26, 11-14-2019)
Sec. 102-796. - Fees.
(a)
Payment of fees. A permit shall not be issued until the fees prescribed in subsection (c) of this section have been paid, and an amendment to a permit shall not be released until the additional fee, if any, due to an increase of the mechanical system, has been paid.
(b)
Investigation fees; work without a permit. Where work, for which a permit is required, has been commenced prior to obtaining a permit, an investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee required by the mechanical code. The minimum investigation fee shall be the same as the minimum permit fee set forth in accordance with the schedule as established by the board of commissioners of the county. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all other provisions of the mechanical code nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
(c)
Fee schedule. For mechanical work requiring a permit or other designated activity, a fee for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as established by the board of commissioners of the county.
(d)
Fee refunds.
(1)
The code official is authorized to establish a refund policy.
(2)
Refunds shall not be given:
a.
For an application or permit that has expired.
b.
If more than 180 days has elapsed from the application submittal date.
c.
If more than 180 days has elapsed from the permit issuance date.
d.
For that component of the permit fee which is representative of the development impact fee.
e.
For plan reviews already performed.
f.
If an inspection has been performed.
(Code 1992, § 5-325; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2019-08 , § 27, 11-14-2019)
Secs. 102-797—102-815. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - INSPECTIONS AND TESTING

Sec. 102-816. - Generally.
Work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the code official and such work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of the mechanical code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the mechanical code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
(Code 1992, § 5-331; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-817. - Preliminary inspection.
(a)
Review by code official. Before issuing a permit, the code official is authorized to examine, or cause to be examined, mechanical systems for which an application has been filed.
(b)
Required inspections and testing. The code official, upon notification from the permit holder or the permit holder's agent, shall make the following inspections and such other inspections as necessary, and shall either release that portion of the construction or shall notify the permit holder or an agent of any violations that must be corrected. The holder of the permit shall be responsible for the scheduling of such inspections.
(1)
Underground inspection shall be made after trenches or ditches are excavated and bedded, piping installed, and before any backfill is put in place. When excavated soil contains rocks, broken concrete, frozen chunks and other rubble that would damage or break the piping or cause corrosive action, clean backfill shall be on the job site.
(2)
Rough-in inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fireblocking and bracing are in place and all ducting and other components to be concealed are complete, and prior to the installation of wall or ceiling membranes.
(3)
Final inspection shall be made upon completion of the mechanical system.
(4)
Other inspections. In addition to the inspections specified above, the code official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the mechanical code and other laws that are enforced by the department of mechanical inspection. Exception: Ground-source heat pump loop systems tested in accordance with the mechanical code shall be permitted to be backfilled prior to inspection.
The requirements of this section shall not be considered to prohibit the operation of any heating equipment or appliances installed to replace existing heating equipment or appliances serving an occupied portion of a structure in the event a request for inspection of such heating equipment or appliances has been filed with the department not more than 48 hours after replacement work is completed, and before any portion of such equipment appliances is concealed by any permanent portion of the structure.
(c)
Approved inspection agencies. Test reports submitted to the code official for consideration shall be developed by approved agencies that have satisfied the requirements as to qualifications and reliability.
(d)
Evaluation and followup inspection services. Prior to the approval of a closed, prefabricated construction assembly having concealed mechanical work and the issuance of a mechanical permit, the code official shall require the submittal of an evaluation report on each prefabricated construction assembly indicating the complete details of the mechanical system, including a description of the system and its components, the basis upon which the system is being evaluated, test results and similar information, and other data as necessary for the code official to determine conformance to the mechanical code.
(1)
Evaluation service. The code official shall designate the evaluation service of an approved agency as the evaluation agency, and review such agency(s evaluation report for adequacy and conformance to the mechanical code.
(2)
Followup inspection. Except where ready access is provided to mechanical systems, service equipment and accessories for complete inspection at the site without disassembly or dismantling, the code official shall conduct the frequency of in-plant inspections necessary to ensure conformance to the approved evaluation report or shall designate an independent, approved inspection agency to conduct such inspections. The inspection agency shall furnish the code official with the followup inspection manual and a report of inspections upon request, and the mechanical system shall have an identifying label permanently affixed to the system indicating that factory inspections have been performed.
(3)
Test and inspection records. All required test and inspection records shall be available to the code official at all times during the fabrication of the mechanical system and the erection of the building, or such records as the code official designates shall be filed.
(Code 1992, § 5-332; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2019-08 , § 28, 11-14-2019)
Sec. 102-818. - Testing.
(a)
Required. Mechanical systems shall be tested as required in the mechanical code and in accordance with subsections (b) through (d) of this section. Tests shall be made by the permit holder and observed by the code official.
(b)
New, altered, extended or repaired systems. New mechanical systems and parts of existing systems that have been altered, extended, renovated or repaired shall be tested as prescribed herein to disclose leaks and defects.
(c)
Apparatus, material and labor for tests. Apparatus, material and labor required for testing a mechanical system or part thereof shall be furnished by the permit holder.
(d)
Reinspection and testing. Where any work or installation does not pass any initial test or inspection, the necessary corrections shall be made to comply with the mechanical code. The work or installation shall then be resubmitted to the code official for inspection and testing.
(Code 1992, § 5-333; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-819. - Approval.
After the prescribed tests and inspections indicate that the work complies in all respects with the mechanical code, a notice of approval shall be issued by the code official. Work shall not be done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the code official. The code official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate the portion of the construction that is satisfactory as completed, or shall notify the permit holder or his agent wherein the same fails to comply with the mechanical code. Any portions that do not comply shall be corrected and such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the code official.
(Code 1992, § 5-334; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-820. - Temporary connection.
The code official shall have the authority to authorize the temporary connection of a mechanical system to the sources of energy for the purpose of testing mechanical systems or for use under a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Code 1992, § 5-335; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-821. - Work covered without inspection approval; investigation required.
Whenever any work for which a permit is required has been covered without first obtaining the necessary inspection approval, a special investigation shall be made before subsequent inspections are approved. The work shall be uncovered to allow an inspection.
(Code 1992, § 5-336; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2019-08 , § 29, 11-14-2019)
Sec. 102-822. - Inspection requests.
It shall be the duty of the permit holder of the building permit or their duly authorized agent to notify the code official when work is ready for inspection. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspection of such work that are required by the mechanical code.
(Code 1992, § 5-337; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Secs. 102-823—102-852. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - VIOLATIONS

Sec. 102-853. - Unlawful acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair, remove, demolish or utilize a mechanical system, or cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of the mechanical code.
(Code 1992, § 5-341; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-854. - Notice.
The code official shall serve a notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the erection, installation, alteration, extension, repair, removal or demolition of mechanical work in violation of the provisions of the mechanical code, or in violation of a detail statement or the approved construction documents thereunder, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the mechanical code. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
(Code 1992, § 5-342; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-855. - Prosecution.
If the notice of violation is not complied with in the time prescribed by such notice, the code official shall request the solicitor general of the county state court to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the provisions of the mechanical code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
(Code 1992, § 5-343; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-856. - Penalties.
Any person who violates a provision of the mechanical code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, installs, alters or repairs mechanical work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the mechanical code, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1992, § 5-344; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-857. - Stop work orders.
Upon notice from the code official, work on any mechanical system that is being done contrary to the provisions of the mechanical code, other pertinent laws or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of the mechanical code, or in a dangerous or unsafe manner shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent or to the person doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions under which work is authorized to resume. When an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
(Code 1992, § 5-345; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-858. - Abatement.
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the plumbing on or about any premises.
(Code 1992, § 5-346; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-859. - Unsafe mechanical systems.
(a)
Declaration of public nuisance. A mechanical system that is unsafe or that constitutes a fire or health hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life is hereby declared unsafe. Use of a mechanical system regulated by the mechanical code constituting a hazard to safety, health or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared an unsafe use. Any such unsafe equipment is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(b)
Authority to condemn mechanical systems. Whenever the code official determines that any mechanical system, or portion thereof, regulated by the mechanical code has become hazardous to life, health or property or has become unsanitary, the code official shall order in writing that such plumbing either be removed or restored to a safe or sanitary condition. A time limit for compliance with such order shall be specified in the written notice. No person shall use or maintain a defective mechanical system after receiving such notice. When such mechanical system is to be disconnected, written notice as prescribed in section 102-854 shall be given. In cases of immediate danger to life or property, such disconnection shall be made immediately without such notice.
(c)
Authority to order disconnection of energy sources. The code official shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of energy sources supplied to a building, structure or mechanical system regulated by the technical codes in case of an emergency, where necessary, to eliminate an immediate danger to life or property. Where possible, the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service system shall be notified of the decision to disconnect utility service prior to taking such action. If not notified prior to disconnecting, the owner or occupant of the building, structure or service systems shall be notified in writing, as soon as practical thereafter. Where energy sources are provided by a public utility, the code official shall immediately notify the serving utility of the issuance of such order to disconnect.
(d)
Connection after order to disconnect. No person shall make connection from any energy source to mechanical systems regulated by the mechanical code that have been disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the code official or the use of which has been ordered to be disconnected by the code official until the code official authorizes the reconnection and use of such mechanical systems. When a mechanical system is maintained in violation of the mechanical code, and in violation of any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this section, the code official shall institute any appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation.
(Code 1992, § 5-347; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Secs. 102-860—102-881. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - EMERGENCY MEASURES

Sec. 102-882. - Imminent danger.
When, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building that endangers life, or when any building or part of a building has fallen and life is endangered by the occupation of the building, or when there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the presence of toxic fumes, gases, or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous equipment, the code official is hereby authorized an empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as follows: "DANGER!—NO ENTRY." It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the same.
(Code 1992, § 5-351; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-883. - Temporary safeguards.
Notwithstanding other provisions of the mechanical code, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
(Code 1992, § 5-352; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-884. - Closing streets.
When necessary for public safety, the code official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
(Code 1992, § 5-353; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-885. - Emergency repairs.
For the purposes of this section, the code official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as expeditiously as possible.
(Code 1992, § 5-354; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-886. - Costs of emergency repairs.
Costs incurred in the performance of emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
(Code 1992, § 5-355; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-887. - Hearing.
Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to the board of commissioners of the county, be afforded a hearing as described in the mechanical code.
(Code 1992, § 5-356; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-888. - Emergency declaration.
In the event of a national, state, or local emergency declaration, the code official may waive or augment the provisions of this chapter as needed during the periods of emergency to protect public safety.
(Code 1992, § 5-357; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006)
Sec. 102-889. - Disaster assessment.
(a)
Notification. Upon notification from emergency first responder personnel, law enforcement personnel or others of a disaster to a building or structure, the code official shall make or cause to be made any necessary visual, nondestructive inspections to determine:
(1)
Immediate hazards that jeopardize public safety, health or general welfare;
(2)
Extent of damage;
(3)
Necessity to evacuate or condemn the building or structure;
(4)
Necessity to disconnect or authorize reestablishment of utilities;
(5)
What permits will be required; and
(6)
Whether plans are necessary.
(b)
Posting of placards. Placards shall be clearly posted at each entrance of the building or structure immediately upon completion of a disaster assessment as follows:
(1)
Inspected—No Restriction on Lawful Use or Occupancy (Green);
(2)
Danger!—Limited Entry (Yellow); or
(3)
Danger!—No Entry (Red).
It shall be unlawful to remove placards posted by the code official.
(Code 1992, § 5-358; Ord. No. 2006-16, § 5, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2019-08 , § 30, 11-14-2019)
Secs. 102-890—102-911. - Reserved.
