Chapter 10 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STATE OF EMERGENCY REGULATIONS[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 10-19—10-39. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUSPENSION OF PORTIONS OF CODE DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 10-40. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fees include any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and cleanup of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "subsequent recovery period" shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
Temporary dwelling means any mobile home or easily movable home, trailer, recreational vehicle or structure not otherwise permitted by the zoning regulations in a jurisdiction.
(Code 1992, § 12-242; Ord. No. 2002-04, § 2, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-41. - Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(a)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law. Under circumstances necessitated by emergency conditions involving public safety or the preservation of property or public services, the county governing authority may meet by means of teleconference so long as notice is provided and means are afforded for the public to have simultaneous access to the teleconference meeting, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 15-14-1.
(b)
Emergency procurement. Upon declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or determination by the county governing authority, its designee, or emergency interim successor (hereinafter referred to as the "county governing authority") of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority may suspend purchasing ordinances, regulations, policies or procedures to provide for the health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance to victims of the emergency. The county governing authority may authorize emergency measures for the duration of the emergency and the subsequent recovery period. The county governing authority may:
(1)
Waive the requirement for competitive bidding for emergency purchases of supplies, equipment, materials, or services.
(2)
Contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract as required by established statutes, rules, regulations, or policies.
(3)
Authorize specific individuals to approve purchases or contracts which exceed the authorization limit of the purchasing director, or approve other procurement actions as warranted by emergency conditions.
(4)
Temporarily increase any department's P-Card spending limit as warranted by the nature of the emergency, including the limit per purchase, limit per month, and number of transactions per day to levels deemed appropriate by the county governing authority.
(5)
Authorize any other procurement actions deemed necessary by the county governing authority to provide for the health and safety of persons and property.
Any contracts or other agreements executed using emergency procurement procedures shall be entered in the minutes of the county as soon as practical, and the nature of the emergency shall be described therein.
(c)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee of the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the Code of Ordinances of the county, or any portion thereof, where:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(2)
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(d)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(e)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, their designee or the emergency interim successor may issue permits for temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicles or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and the county building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon the expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the governing authority or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon the expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(Code 1992, § 12-241; Ord. No. 2002-04, § 1, 5-23-2002; Ord. No. 2013-10, §§ 1—3, 7-9-2013)
Secs. 10-42—10-70. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Authority to establish a program of emergency registration of businesses doing business in the county during a state of emergency, O.C.G.A. § 48-3-56.

Sec. 10-71. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor, as used in this division, means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business means any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this division if: (a) he has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or (b) he performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Code 1992, § 12-262; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 2, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-72. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this division to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this division. Violation of this division, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and/or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1992, § 12-265; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 5, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-73. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this division.
(Code 1992, § 12-261; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 1, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-74. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposed to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Code 1992, § 12-263; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 3, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-75. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this division at $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Code 1992, § 12-264; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 4, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-76. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this division is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Code 1992, § 12-266; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 6, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-77. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Code 1992, § 12-267; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 7, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-78. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this division is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this division or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Code 1992, § 12-268; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 8, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-79. - Effective date; expiration.
This division, and any certification issued pursuant to it shall be operative only during the period of a declared state of emergency and any subsequent recovery periods.
(Code 1992, § 12-270; Ord. No. 2002-05, § 10, 5-23-2002)
Secs. 10-80—10-101. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - OVERCHARGING FOR GOODS, MATERIALS, SERVICES AND HOUSING DURING A STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 10-102. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging is defined as charging prices for goods, materials, services or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor unless extended by official action of the governing authority of the county.
(Code 1992, § 12-292; Ord. No. 2002-06, § 2, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-103. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(Code 1992, § 12-291; Ord. No. 2002-06, § 1, 5-23-2002)
Secs. 10-104—10-134. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - CURFEWS

Sec. 10-135. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this division from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, include those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to sections 10-73 through 10-79, performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Code 1992, § 12-312; Ord. No. 2002-07, § 2, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-136. - Institution of curfew.
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Code 1992, § 12-311; Ord. No. 2002-07, § 1, 5-23-2002)
Sec. 10-137. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of the unincorporated county during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Code 1992, § 12-313; Ord. No. 2002-07, § 3, 5-23-2002)
