ARTICLE V. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1. - General Provisions.
1.1.
All water and sewer systems must comply with the minimum lot and design standards established by the State of Georgia and locally regulated by the McIntosh County Health Department and any other applicable ordinances.
1.2.
No owner or occupant of land in any district shall permit a structure wholly damaged by a fire (or other ruins) to be left in such partially or wholly damaged state, but shall repair or remove and properly dispose of the same within six months.
1.3.
Any persistent uses that may be obnoxious or injurious by reason of the production or emission of odor, dust, smoke, refuse matter, fumes, noise, vibration, or similar conditions or that are dangerous to the comfort, peace, enjoyment, health or safety of the community are prohibited.
1.4.
Unless otherwise specified within this ordinance, no structure shall exceed 35 feet in height. Height shall be measured from grade. If the structure is located in an established flood plain, height shall be measure from the flood plain elevation.
1.5.
No persons shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any occupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any occupied dwelling except as follows:
A.
The parking of one (1) trailer in a private garage building or in a rear yard is permitted providing said trailer is not occupied and the trailer belongs to the owner or lessee of the land it occupies.
B.
The temporary use of a trailer by a person engaged in adjoining construction work, or for whom a residence is being built, provided that such use is shown to be a temporary expedient, may be permitted by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall grant such permission for a period not to exceed three months excepting that they may renew in their discretion such permission at the expiration of said three-month period.
C.
Any property owner or lessee may accommodate one trailer of a nonpaying guest in their yard for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days in any one year.
1.6.
Within any residential district, no wall or fence shall exceed 4 feet in height within or along a boundary of a front yard. No wall or fence shall exceed 6 feet in height within or along a boundary of a rear yard. Any wall or fence within or along side yard boundaries must be set back at least 8 feet from the front setback requirements and may not exceed 6 feet in height.
1.7.
All non-residential developments shall install and maintain screened areas for the purposes of service, refuse and/or storage. These areas shall be screened from public view from streets and/or adjoining properties.
