PART I - SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS
Subpart A - SPECIAL ACTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the Special Act establishing the governing body of the county, as adopted by 1876 Ga. Laws (Act No. 370), p. 283, as amended. Amendments to this Act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Each section of the charter in the original text of the Act began with the prefatory language "[b]e it further enacted, [t]hat said." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from the reprinting of this Act as unnecessary language.

Sec. 1. - Composition; districts.
(a)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County who are serving as such immediately prior to the effective date of this Act and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors. On and after the effective date of this Act, the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County shall consist of five members all of whom shall be elected from commissioner districts described in subsection (b) of this section except for the member who is elected at large as provided in this Act.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, other than the at-large member, McIntosh County is divided into four commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The four commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those four numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: mcintp4 Plan Type: Local User: Gina Administrator: McIntosh.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms "Tract" and "BG" (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a "BG" heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of McIntosh County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of McIntosh County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 697), p. 5207, § 1)
Editor's note— The attachment referred to by this Act was omitted from this printing at the discretion of the editor. It may be found at 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 697), p. 5207.
Sec. 2. - Eligibility; resident qualifications.
(a)
No person shall be a member of the board if that person is ineligible for such office pursuant to Code Section 45-2-1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1] or any other general law applicable to that office.
(b)
In order to be elected as a member of the board from a commissioner district, a person must receive the number of votes cast as required by general law for that office in that district only. Only electors who are residents of that commissioner district may vote for a member of the board for that district. At the time of qualifying for election as a member of the board from a commissioner district, each candidate for such office must reside in such district and shall specify the commissioner district for which that person is a candidate. A person elected or appointed as a member of the board from a commissioner district must continue to reside in that district during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(c)
The at-large member of the board may reside anywhere within McIntosh County and, if elected, must receive the number of votes cast for that office as required by general law in the entire county. The at-large member must continue to reside within the county during that person's term of office or that office shall become vacant.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 697), p. 5207, § 2)
Sec. 3. - Terms; designation.
(a)
[Staggered terms.]
(1)
The members of the board of commissioners who are in office on the effective date of this Act shall serve out the terms of office to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(2)
At the November general election in 2006, members of the board of commissioners from Districts 1, 3, and 5 shall be elected to take office on January 1, 2007, and serve a term of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to such members shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office who shall take office on the first day of January immediately following such election and shall serve terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(3)
At the November general election in 2006, members of the board of commissioners from Districts 2 and 4 shall be elected to take office on January 1, 2007, and serve a term of office of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Thereafter, successors to such members shall be elected at the November general election immediately preceding the expiration of their terms of office who shall take office on the first day of January immediately following such election and shall serve terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(b)
All members of the board who are elected thereto shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(c)
Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, as they exist immediately prior to the effective date of this Act, shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after the effective date of this Act, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act. Commissioner District 5 as it existed immediately prior to the effective date of this Act shall be redesignated as the at-large district and shall be composed of all of McIntosh County and, on and after the effective date of this Act, the member serving from former Commissioner District 5 shall be deemed to be serving from and representing the at-large district as described under this Act.
(2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 697), p. 5207, § 3; 2005 Ga. Laws (HB 449), p. 3622)
Sec. 4. - Compensation.
Each member of the board of commissioners of McIntosh County shall receive for their services as such a salary of $125.00 per month.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 424), p. 3367, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Powers.
Commissioners shall have in said county exclusive jurisdiction and control over the following matters, viz:
First: In directing and controlling all the property of the county, as full as said power was possessed and exercised by law by the Justices of the Inferior Court.
Second: In levying a general tax for general, and a special tax for particular and county purposes, according to the provisions of the law in force.
Third: In establishing, altering or abolishing all roads, bridges and ferries, in conformity to law.
Fourth: In establishing and changing election precincts and militia districts.
Fifth: In supplying, by appointment, all vacancies in county offices, and in ordering elections to fill them, in the same manner as said powers are now given to the Ordinaries of counties.
Sixth: In examining, settling and allowing all claims against the county.
Seventh: In examining and auditing the accounts of all officers having the care, management, keeping, collection or disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and in bringing them to a settlement.
Eighth: In making such rules and regulations for the support of the poor of the county, for the protection of the health of said county, and for quarantine, as are not inconsistent with law.
Ninth: In regulating peddling, and fixing the costs of license therefor.
Tenth: To approve of all officers' bonds in said county; to deliver the commissions of said officers sent them by the Governor, and to qualify said officers.
Eleventh: To appoint any person to discharge any trust authorized by their powers, where no other person is designated by law, and to regulate his compensation, and to take bond and security for the proper discharge of his duty.
Sec. 6. - Criminal and civil jurisdiction.
The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners, and also the Chairman pro tem of said board, shall be vested with the same criminal jurisdiction as is now vested by law in Justices of the Peace in this State; and the Chairman of said board, and his successors, shall also have and exercise the same jurisdiction in civil cases, within the limits of the 271st District, Georgia Militia, in the county of McIntosh, as is vested by law in Justices of the Peace.
Sec. 7. - Court powers.
A majority of said Commissioners may sit at any time as a court for county purposes, and for the exercise of any power they possess under this Act.
Sec. 8. - Records transition.
Immediately upon the qualification of said Commissioners (whose oath shall be that which was taken by the Justices of the Inferior Court), there shall be turned over to them all books, papers and property of the County of McIntosh and City of Darien, in the same manner and to the same extent to which the Justices of the Inferior Court of the county of McIntosh and the corporate authorities of the City of Darien have been and are entitled by law to the possession and custody of the same.
Sec. 9. - Oath.
The persons elected under this Act shall, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, take and subscribe the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully discharge the duties of a Commissioner of McIntosh County in accordance with law and to the best of my ability. So help me God."
(1913 Ga. Laws (Act No. 16), p. 418)
Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE I. - COUNTY OFFICERS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Special Act 1965 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 461), p. 3239, as enacted by the General Assembly of the Georgia Legislature regarding McIntosh County. Amendments to this Act are indicated in the parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Each section of the original text of the Act began with the prefatory language "[b]e it further enacted, [t]hat said." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from the reprinting of these Acts as unnecessary language.

Sec. 1. - Compensation—Fee system abolished.
The [___] mode of compensating the clerk of the superior court, the sheriff, [probate judge, ex officio chief magistrate,] and the tax commissioner of McIntosh County, known as the fee system, is hereby abolished, and in lieu thereof, annual salaries for such officers are prescribed [by State statute].
Sec. 2. - Same—Sheriff.
[1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 461), p. 3239, § 2 regarding the annual salary and expense allowance for the sheriff has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 15-16-1 et seq. (Sheriffs).]
(1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 794), p. 2453, § 1; 1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 930), p. 2427, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Same—Clerk of the superior court.
[1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 461), p. 3239, § 3, regarding the annual salary and expense allowance for the clerk of the superior court, has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 15-6-50 et seq. (Clerks of Superior Courts).]
Sec. 3A. - Same—Additional fees for clerk of the superior court.
[1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 172), p. 2528, § 1(3A) regarding the fees specified in O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-70, 15-6-77 for the clerk of the superior court has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 15-6-50 et seq. (Clerks of Superior Courts).]
(1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 172), p. 2528, § 1(3A))
Sec. 4. - Same—Tax commissioner.
[1965 Ga. Laws (Act No. 461), p. 3239, § 4, regarding the annual salary and expense allowance for the tax commissioner has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 48-5-180 et seq. (Compensation).]
Sec. 5. - Officers collect funds for county.
After the effective date of this Act, said officers shall diligently and faithfully undertake to collect all fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed as compensation for services in any capacity in their respective offices, and shall receive and hold the same in trust for said county as public monies and shall pay the same into the county treasury on or before the 15th day of each month next following the month in which they were collected or received. At the time of each such monthly payment into the county treasury, each of said officers shall furnish the governing authority of the county a detailed, itemized statement, under oath, of all such funds received during the preceding month by such officer and paid into the county treasury. The statement shall show the respective amounts of money collected and the source thereof. ;oh5 Sec. 6.\Salary in lieu of fees for tax commissioner.
It is specifically provided that the salary provided herein for the tax commissioner shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, costs, fines, emoluments and perquisites of whatever kind including those commissions allowed by an Act approved March 9, 1955 (Ga. L. 1955, p. 659), as amended, relating to the sale of motor vehicle license plates by local tax officials, notwithstanding the fact that such services for which the commissions are derived may have been performed in the capacity of an agent for the State Revenue Department, and an Act relating to the commission on taxes collected in excess of a certain percentage of the taxes due according to the Tax Net Digest, approved January 17, 1938 (Ga. L. 1937-38, Ex. Sess., p. 297), as amended.
Sec. 7. - Sheriff's deputies.
The sheriff shall be authorized to employ [___] deputies and to fix their compensation at an amount [within the budget set by] the governing authority of McIntosh County, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of McIntosh County for each such deputy. The sheriff shall also be authorized to employ two part-time deputies when, in his discretion, he deems such part-time deputies necessary to carry out the official duties of his office. The governing authority of McIntosh County shall fix the compensation of such part-time deputies and it shall be payable monthly from the funds of McIntosh County. The sheriff may, upon the approval of the governing authority of McIntosh County, employ additional full or part-time deputies. Such additional deputies shall receive such compensation as the governing authority of McIntosh County shall approve. The funds authorized by this section shall be available and shall be used only for the purposes herein provided. Such full-time deputies and part-time deputies shall serve at the pleasure of the sheriff.
(1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 521), p. 3861, § 1)
Sec. 8. - Sheriff's automobiles.
The governing authority of McIntosh County shall be authorized to purchase two automobiles for the use of the sheriff and his deputies in the performance of their duties. Said automobiles shall be the property of McIntosh County and said governing authority shall be authorized to dispose of and replace said automobiles at such time and in such manner as is determined to be most advantageous to McIntosh County. Said governing authority shall provide for the cost of repairs, tires, gasoline, oil and other maintenance and supplies necessary for the operation of said automobiles. The funds for purchasing said automobiles and the replacements, thereof, supplies, equipment and maintenance of said automobiles, as herein provided, shall be payable from the funds of McIntosh County. [The Sheriff may purchase additional automobiles and equipment with funds lawfully seized, as provided by law.]
Sec. 9. - Jailer.
The sheriff shall be authorized to employ a jailer and fix his compensation [within the budget set by the Board of Commissioners], payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of McIntosh County. Said jailer shall serve at the pleasure of the sheriff.
Sec. 10. - Assistant to superior court clerk.
The clerk of the superior court shall be authorized to employ one assistant and fix the compensation of such assistant [within the budget set by the Board of Commissioners], payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of McIntosh County. Said assistant shall serve at the pleasure of the clerk.
Sec. 11. - Assistant to tax commissioner.
The tax commissioner shall be authorized to employ one assistant and fix the compensation of such assistant [within the budget set by the Board of Commissioners], payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of McIntosh County. Upon the approval of the governing authority of McIntosh County, the tax commissioner may employ an additional assistant at an annual salary of not less than $5,200.00, such salary to be fixed by the governing authority of said county. Said assistants shall serve at the pleasure of the tax commissioner.
(1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 378), p. 4423, § 1)
Sec. 11.a. - Same; additional compensation.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 11, the governing authority of McIntosh County is authorized to increase the compensation of the assistant to the tax commissioner and such other clerical personnel as shall be employed within the tax commissioner's office [within the budget set by the Board of Commissioners].
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 423), p. 3365, § 1(11A))
Sec. 12. - Operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of each of said offices shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and uniforms, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of each office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements for each office shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of McIntosh County.
Sec. 13. - Bonds.
The official bonds of each of said officers, and the respective deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel, as may be required by law, shall be procured by each elected officer, and the premiums and costs thereof shall be paid out of any county funds available for that purpose.
ARTICLE II. - TAX COMMISSIONER[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Special Act 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 124), p. 627, as enacted by the General Assembly of the Georgia Legislature regarding McIntosh County. Amendments to this Act are indicated in the parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Transition; offices abolished.
[1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 124), p. 627, § 1, abolished the offices of the receiver of tax-returns and tax-collector in and for McIntosh County.]
Sec. 2. - Office created.
[T]here [___] is hereby created the office of County Tax-Commissioner in and for the said County of McIntosh, said County Tax-Commissioner to perform all the duties now and heretofore exercised by the receiver of tax-returns and tax-collector under the general laws of Georgia relating to said offices, and all the duties prescribed by law relating to the office of Tax-Commissioner heretofore enacted or which may hereafter be enacted by general law. He shall be elected at the general election preceding the expiration of the term of office of the tax-receiver and tax-collector, whose offices are herein abolished, as other county officers are elected. The County Commissioners shall furnish him with office in the court-house, and he is required to attend to the duties of his office at the place so furnished as far as practicable.
Sec. 3. - Oath; bond required.
[B]efore entering upon the discharge of his duties said County Tax-Commissioner shall take oath to faithfully and diligently discharge all duties of such office, and to properly account for all monies collected to the proper authorities at the times prescribed by law, and shall give bond with some surety company authorized to do business in Georgia as surety, in such amount of money as may be fixed by the County Commissioners of McIntosh County, but in no event to be less than twenty-five thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office in the form and manner prescribed by law for tax-receivers and tax-collectors, in so far as practicable. The premium on said bond to be paid by the county.
Sec. 4. - Term; vacancy.
[T]he first election for County Tax-Commissioner of McIntosh County shall be held at the same time and under the same laws as other county officers are now elected at the general election for county officers in the year 1928, and quadrennially thereafter, and that the person so elected shall enter upon the duties of the office hereby created on January 1, 1929, and shall serve for a term of four years. If a vacancy should occur, then the office shall be filled in the same manner as vacancies are filled in other county offices.
Sec. 5. - Funds collected.
[A]ll fees, commissions, and all other compensation now allowed to the tax-receiver and tax-collector of McIntosh County from State, County, school, and special, shall be collected by the Tax-Commissioner and paid into the county depository of said county, and the same to be accounted for by the county depository in like manner as all other funds belonging to the county deposited with it. ;oh5 Sec. 6.\Compensation.
[1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 124), p. 627, § 6, regarding the annual salary and expense allowance for the tax commissioner has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 48-5-180 et seq. (Compensation).]
ARTICLE III. - COUNTY COURTS
DIVISION 1. - PROBATE COURT[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Special Act 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 124), p. 627, as enacted by the General Assembly of the Georgia Legislature regarding McIntosh County. Amendments to this Act are indicated in the parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Compensation; fee system abolished.
[1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 425), p. 3369, § 1, abolished the office of the judge of the probate court of McIntosh County.]
Sec. 2. - Compensation.
(a)
[1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 425), p. 3369, § 2, regarding the annual salary for the judge of the probate court has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 48-5-180 et seq. (Compensation).]
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3, in addition to said salary, the judge of the probate court shall be entitled to fees collected by the probate court pursuant to the [statute], relating to vital records.
(1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 381), p. 4429, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Funds collected.
[1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 425), p. 3369, § 3, regarding the collection of fees, fines, forfeitures, commissions, costs, allowances, penalties, funds, monies and all other emoluments and perquisites formerly allowed the judge of the probate court as compensation for services rendered has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 15-9-60 et seq. (Probate Courts).]
Sec. 4. - Appoint deputies and assistants.
The [probate court judge] shall have the authority to appoint such deputies, clerks, assistants and other personnel as he shall deem necessary to efficiently and effectively discharge the official duties of his office. The [probate court judge] shall, from time to time, recommend to the governing authority of said county the number of such personnel needed by his office, together with the suggested compensation to be paid each employee. However, it shall be within the sole discretion of the governing authority of McIntosh County to fix the compensation to be received by each employee in said office. It shall be within the sole power and authority of the [probate court judge], during his term of office, to designate and name the person or persons who shall be employed as such deputies, clerks, assistants or other employees, and to prescribe their duties and assignments, and to remove or replace any of such employees at will and within his sole discretion.
Sec. 5. - Operating expenses.
The necessary operating expenses of the [probate court judge's] office, expressly including the compensation of all personnel and employees, shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. All supplies, materials, furnishings, furniture, utilities and equipment, and the repair, replacement and maintenance thereof, as may be reasonably required in discharging the official duties of said office, shall be furnished by the county and shall be paid from any funds of the county available for such purpose. The determination of such requirements shall be at the sole discretion of the governing authority of McIntosh County.
Sec. 6. - Expense allowance.
[1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 425), p. 3369, § 6, regarding the expense allowance of the judge of the probate court as compensation for services rendered has been superseded and made obsolete by the provisions of Ga. Const. art. IX, § I, ¶ III and O.C.G.A. § 15-9-60 et seq. (Probate Courts).]
Sec. 7. - Election.
All elections for the office of probate judge of McIntosh County shall be nonpartisan elections as provided for in Code Section 21-2-139 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-139]. Such nonpartisan elections shall be held and conducted as provided in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(2003 Ga. Laws (HB 805), p. 3790, § 1)
DIVISION 2. - MAGISTRATE COURT[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Special Act 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 662), as enacted by the General Assembly of the Georgia Legislature regarding McIntosh County. Amendments to this Act are indicated in the parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. In addition, Special Act 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 662) § 3, repealed 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 382), p. 4431, § 1 and 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 666), p. 4346, § 1, which had established the Small Claims Court in and for McIntosh County.

Sec. 1. - Ex official chief magistrate.
Pursuant to subsection (g) of Code Section 15-10-20 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 15-10-20(g)], the chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of McIntosh County shall not be separately elected for any term of office that begins on or after January 1, 2009, but on and after that date the probate judge of McIntosh County shall serve ex officio as the chief magistrate of the Magistrate Court of McIntosh County.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 662), § 1)
ARTICLE IV. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Special Act 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 790), as enacted by the General Assembly of the Georgia Legislature regarding McIntosh County. Amendments to this Act are indicated in the parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. In addition, Special Act 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 790), § 15, repealed 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 810), p. 5593, which created and established the duties and responsibilities of the board of elections and registration for McIntosh County.

Sec. 1. - Created.
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-40(b)], there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of McIntosh County, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers and duties of the former superintendent of elections of McIntosh County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and the former board of registrars of McIntosh County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," relating to the registration of electors and absentee voting.
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act, and the term "commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County and "county" means McIntosh County.
Sec. 3. - Composition; qualifications; terms.
(a)
The board shall be composed of seven members, each of whom shall meet the applicable eligibility requirements under Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 45 of the O.C.G.A., Code Section 21-2-75 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-75], and other general law, and shall be qualified and selected in the following manner:
(1)
Four members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the largest number of votes in this state for the officer of Governor;
(2)
Three members shall be appointed by the county executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding general election received the next largest number of votes in this state for the election of Governor;
(3)
Each of the appointments made by the respective executive committees shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each such respective executive committee voting at a meeting called and held for such purposes. In the event such appointments are not ratified by a majority of the members of such executive committee, then such members shall be appointed by the judge of the probate court of McIntosh County;
(4)
At the first meeting of each calendar year, the members of the McIntosh County Board of Elections and Registration shall select one of their members of the board to serve as chairperson and one of their members to serve as secretary;
(5)
[Terms.]
(A)
The initial appointments to the board shall be made no later than January 1, 2007;
(B)
Of the four initial members appointed by the executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding election received the largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor, two of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on January 1, 2007, and expiring on December 31, 2011, and two of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on January 1, 2007, and expiring on December 31, 2009;
(C)
Of the three initial members appointed by the executive committee of the political party whose candidate at the last preceding election received the next largest number of votes in this state for the office of Governor, two of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on January 1, 2007, and expiring on December 31, 2011, and one of the persons so appointed, who shall be designated by the executive committee, shall serve a term of office beginning on January 1, 2007, and expiring on December 31, 2009;
(D)
All such persons so appointed shall serve for the initial terms specified and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified;
(6)
After the initial term of office, successors to members whose terms are about to expire shall be appointed to take office on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of a term of office and shall serve a term of four years each and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified;
(7)
Appointments on behalf of political parties that do not have executive committees in McIntosh County shall be made by the state executive committee of such party; and
(8)
Each member of the board shall successfully complete all mandatory training by achieving a passing score on any test administered as a part of such training. Any board member who fails to successfully complete such training and achieve a passing score of any test administered as a part of such training shall stand immediately terminated and shall be replaced by the authority appointing such board member. Any such appointment shall be to fill the unexpired term of the member replaced.
Sec. 4. - Certification; appointment.
The appointing authorities shall certify the appointment of each member of the board by filing an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of McIntosh County no later than 15 days preceding the date upon which such members are to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars. If any appointing authority does not, in conformity with this Act, certify an appointment to the board within 30 days after the beginning of a term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in that office, a vacancy shall be deemed to have been thereby created and the judge of the probate court of McIntosh County shall fill that vacancy by making the appointment thereto and shall certify it as provided in this section. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve out the unexpired term of office.
Sec. 5. - Successive terms; removal.
Each member of the board shall be eligible to serve successive terms without limitation and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the appointing authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of McIntosh County. Each member shall be subject to removal from the board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, by the chief judge of the Superior Court of the Atlantic Judicial Circuit in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for the removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - Vacancy.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any board member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by the appointing authority for that position on the board. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of such interim appointment and record and certify such appointment in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
Sec. 7. - Oath.
Before entering upon the member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 8. - Duties and responsibilities; meetings; rate of compensation.
(a)
The board shall be authorized to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law. Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority of the members of the board. The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
(b)
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold regular meetings each month and more often if needed in the opinion of the members. The time of such meetings shall be set by the board. Any specially called meeting shall be called by the chairperson or any three members of the board. The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be made available for the public to review.
(c)
Members of the board shall receive $55.00 per day for each day of service on the board. The chairperson and the secretary shall receive $75.00 per day for each day of service on the board. On primary and election days and during the period of advance voting pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-380 of the O.C.G.A., the chairperson and members of the board shall be compensated at the rate of $10.00 per hour. The hours of service shall be certified to the commissioners by the chairperson of the board.
Sec. 9. - Authority to contract with municipality.
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality located within McIntosh County for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within such municipality.
Sec. 10. - Elections supervisor; additional clerical assistants.
(a)
An elections supervisor shall be employed by the governing authority of McIntosh County who shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The election supervisor shall not be a member of the board. The election supervisor shall be considered an employee of McIntosh County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of McIntosh County. The election supervisor shall be subject to all personnel and policy procedures of McIntosh County. The election supervisor shall maintain regular office hours as directed by the governing authority of McIntosh County.
(b)
The supervisor of elections shall not be an active member of any political party or body.
(c)
Upon indictment of any felony involving election fraud or moral turpitude, the election supervisor shall be terminated from the position as a matter of law. Such vacancy shall be filled within ten business days following the occurrence of such vacancy.
(d)
The board is authorized, with the approval of the commissioners, to employ additional clerical assistants as needed to carry out the duties and functions of the board. All such clerical assistants shall be considered employees of McIntosh County and shall be entitled to the same benefits as other employees of McIntosh County. Any clerical assistants shall be subject to all personnel and policy procedures of McIntosh County. Upon indictment of any felony involving election fraud or moral turpitude, a clerical assistant shall resign or be terminated from his or her position.
Sec. 11. - Compensation in general.
Compensation for the members of the board, election supervisor, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be fixed by the board of commissioners in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Such compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
Sec. 12. - Facilities and equipment; audits.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies and with such clerical assistance and other employees as the Board of Commissioners of McIntosh County deems appropriate.
(b)
The commissioners shall also cause periodic audits to be made of the board and its offices.
Sec. 13. - Transition.
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval for purposes of making initial appointments to the board only. This Act shall become fully effective on January 1, 2007. Upon this Act becoming fully effective, the superintendent of elections of McIntosh County and the board of registrars of McIntosh County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver to the board all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities pertaining to such powers and duties.
SPECIAL ACTS AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the Special Acts and Related Laws, and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Section
these Special Acts
and Related Laws
1876 283 370 Spec. Acts, Art. I
1913 418 16 Spec. Acts, Art. I, § 9
1927 627 124 R.L., Art. II
R.L., Art. III, Div. 1
1966 2528 172 1(3A) R.L., Art. I, § 3A
1968 2453 794 1 R.L., Art. I, § 2
1969 3365 423 1(11A) R.L., Art. I, § 11.a
3367 424 1 Spec. Acts, Art. I, § 4
1970 2427 930 1 R.L., Art. I, § 2
1977 3861 521 1 R.L., Art. I, § 7
1979 4423 378 1 R.L., Art. I, § 11
4429 381 1 R.L., Art. III, Div. 1, § 2
2002 5207 697 1—3 Spec. Acts, Art. I, § 1—
Spec. Acts, Art. I, § 3
2003 3790 1 R.L., Art. III, Div. 1, § 7
2005 3622 Spec. Acts, Art. I, § 3
2006 662 1 R.L., Art. III, Div. 2, § 1
790 R.L., Art. IV
