Chapter 98 - VEGETATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; nuisances, ch. 52; parks and recreation, ch. 58; planning and development, ch. 66; streets and sidewalks, ch. 82.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 98-1—98-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TREES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 98-31. - Intent; purpose.
(a)
Trees are proven producers of oxygen, a necessary element to the survival of man, and appreciably reduce the ever-increasing and environmentally dangerous carbon dioxide content of the air. Trees precipitate dust and other particulate airborne pollutants from the air. Trees transpire considerable amounts of water each day and thereby purify the air much like the air washer device employed in commercial air conditioning systems. Trees play a vital role in neutralizing wastewater passing through the ground from the surface to groundwater table and lower aquifers. Trees, through their root systems, stabilize the groundwater table. Tree leaves break the onslaught of pelting rain drops upon the soil surface and give the soil a chance to soak up as much water as possible, and when falling, covering the ground to keep the soil from drying out, and by decaying, replace minerals in the soil and enrich it to support later plant growth. Trees play a pronounced and important part in communitywide soil conservation, erosion control and reduce stormwater runoff. Trees contribute food and shelter for wildlife in the urban and suburban environment. Trees are an invaluable psychological counterpart to the manmade urban and suburban setting, camouflaging harsh scenery and unsightly cityscape and softening the outline of masonry, metal and glass. Trees increase the value of property and are valuable property assets that can affect an area economically, beautifying the land and breaking the monotony of endless sidewalks and miles of highways and streets.
(b)
The board of aldermen finds that it is in the best interest of the public to provide standards for the preservation and/or replacement of trees as part of the land development and building construction process for the purpose of making the city a more attractive place to live; providing a healthy living environment; and better maintaining control of stormwater runoff, noise, glare and soil erosion.
(Code 1983, § 21-22)
Sec. 98-32. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer means a designated area of adequate width to provide for protection of the streambank, channel soil and vegetative cover as determined by the issuing authority, adjacent to any state waters, watercourses, or drainage areas, in which no land disturbing activities shall be undertaken unless approved in the plan. Such activities may include stream crossings for trains, routes or utilities construction, sewer and water line construction, and minor landscaping or channel improvement activities to stabilize critical area.
Density factor means a unit of measure used to prescribe the calculated required tree coverage on a site.
Exceptional tree means any tree which exceeds 36 inches in diameter.
Issuing authority means the city building inspector or his agent or designated representative, who shall be responsible for administering this article.
Land disturbance permit means the authorization necessary to begin a land disturbing activity under the provisions of this article.
Land disturbing activity means any land change that may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into the waters or into land within the city or county, including but not limited to clearing, grubbing, stripping, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land.
Protected zone means all lands that fall outside the buildable area of a parcel, all areas of the parcel required to remain in open space, and all designated buffers or tree save areas, or conditions of zoning approval.
Tree means any living, self-supporting woody perennial plant that has a trunk diameter of two inches or more measured at a point six inches above the ground and normally obtains a height of at least ten feet at maturity, usually with one main stem or trunk and many branches.
Tree preservation and replacement standards means standards and specifications established by the city and incorporated in this article for the identification, preservation, replacement and protection of trees, and which are incorporated in this article.
(Code 1983, § 21-23)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 98-33. - Scope.
The terms and provisions of this article shall apply to all real property, except for the construction of individual single-family detached and duplex dwellings, lying within the city limits.
(Code 1983, § 21-24)
Sec. 98-34. - Tree replacement authorized; civil penalty.
(a)
In addition to or in lieu of any civil penalty, the issuing authority may at its discretion order the replacement of trees by the person violating this article in order to meet the minimum requirements set out in this article.
(b)
Any civil penalties imposed under this article shall be payable to the city and shall commence on the date of issuance of any stop work order or any other order of noncompliance, and shall not be affected by the filing of any appeals; however, an appellant may, upon filing an appeal, post an appeal bond with the issuing authority in an amount equal to double the cost of any and all corrective work necessary to remedy the violation, the cost of such corrective work to be determined by the issuing authority; further, any civil penalty imposed under this article may, in the discretion of the issuing authority, be waived or reduced if, in the discretion of the issuing authority, the violator has taken sufficient and timely curative and corrective action.
(Code 1983, § 21-26)
Sec. 98-35. - Enforcement.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce this article. The building inspector shall have the authority to suspend, stop or modify any land disturbance permit.
(b)
The issuing authority shall have the power to withhold all permits, including but not limited to final certificate of occupancy, building permits and all other permits on the subject site until it is determined by the issuing authority that the site complies with this article and the provisions of the formal plan approved by the county.
(Code 1983, § 21-27)
Sec. 98-36. - Inspection.
(a)
The issuing authority may cause inspection of the work to be made periodically during the course of the work and shall make a final inspection following the completion of the work. Applicants shall assist the issuing authority in making such inspections. The issuing authority shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this article, and for the purpose of entering at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of any land disturbing activities.
(b)
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent who requests entry for purposes of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials; nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(Code 1983, § 21-28)
Sec. 98-37. - Appeal of an administrative decision.
(a)
After having complied with application requirements of the issuing authority, should the applicant dispute a decision of the issuing authority, the applicant may appeal to the board of aldermen by filing a notice of appeal with the issuing authority; however, the appeal must be filed within ten days from the date of the decision being appealed. Upon failure to file the appeal within ten days of the decision being appealed, the decision shall be binding and final upon all parties.
(b)
A notice of appeal shall address the reasons why the terms and provisions of this article should be waived.
(c)
The issuing authority shall review the notice of appeal and transmit to the board of aldermen a written report of its findings and recommendations, which shall become a part of the official record.
(d)
The board of aldermen, having received the report of the issuing authority, making it a part of the official record, and having considered the written and oral statements of the applicant, and any other evidence, is authorized to hear and shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the issuing authority in the administration or enforcement of this article. The decision of the board of aldermen shall not result in a violation or circumvention of any applicable condition of zoning, provision of the city's zoning laws, subdivision regulations, or any other regulation or ordinance.
(e)
A written copy of the findings and decision of the board of aldermen shall be transmitted to the applicant and to the issuing authority.
(f)
An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the board of aldermen shall have the right to appeal to the superior court of the county by writ of certiorari.
(Code 1983, § 21-29)
Sec. 98-38. - Notice of noncompliance.
If through inspection it is determined that a person has engaged in land disturbing activities and has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, a written notice to comply shall be served upon the property owner or the agent of record only. Where a person has engaged in land disturbing activities without having first secured a permit, notices under the provisions of this article may be served upon the person in charge on site. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance with the permit and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in land disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this article.
(Code 1983, § 21-30)
Sec. 98-39. - Stop work orders.
Upon notice from the issuing authority, work on any project that is being done contrary to the provisions of this article shall be immediately stopped. Such notice shall be in writing; shall state the specific violation; shall be given to the applicant, his authorized agent, or the person in charge of the activity on the subject property; and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Where an emergency exists, no written notice shall be required.
(Code 1983, § 21-31)
Sec. 98-40. - Suspension, revocation, modification of permit.
The permit may be suspended, revoked or modified by the issuing authority upon finding that the holder is in violation of the terms of the permit or any portion of this article.
(Code 1983, § 21-32)
Sec. 98-41. - Fees.
Permit processing and/or inspection fees shall be as fixed by the mayor and board of aldermen and set forth in the schedule of fees and charges on file with the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1983, § 21-33; Ord. No. 2022-16 , § 1, 6-16-2022)
Secs. 98-42—98-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMITS

Sec. 98-61. - Required.
The terms and provisions of this article shall apply to any activity on real property that requires the issuance of a land disturbance permit within the city limits, but excluding the construction of individual single-family detached and duplex dwellings. No land disturbance permit shall be issued for full site development by the building inspector without its being determined that the proposed development is in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1983, § 21-41)
Sec. 98-62. - Procedure.
(a)
All applications for a land disturbance permit shall provide a tree preservation and/or replacement plan as part of an application for a land disturbance permit submitted to the building inspector. Standards for the tree preservation and/or replacement plan shall be established in administrative standards by the building inspector upon recommendation of the city's arborist.
(b)
All tree preservation and/or replacement plans and related documentation shall be reviewed by the city's arborist for conformance to the provisions of this article and administrative standards established by the city and either be approved, returned for revisions, or denied within seven days of receipt or in conformance with the planning review process. If denied, the reasons for denial shall be annotated on the plan or otherwise stated in writing.
(c)
Issuance of the land disturbance permit for full site development shall constitute an approval of the required preservation and/or replacement plan and conformance to the provisions of this article.
(Code 1983, § 21-42)
Sec. 98-63. - Removal and replacement of trees.
(a)
Trees shall not be removed in any protected zone unless the owner/developer documents an economic hardship if the trees in the protected zone were to be preserved. This documentation shall be submitted as part of the application for a land disturbance permit. Nothing in this article shall be construed to allow the removal of vegetation in a designated, undisturbed buffer required by a condition of zoning.
(b)
When no trees are present in the protected zone or when it is determined that any portion of the protected zone be disturbed, it shall be the responsibility of the owner/developer to replant as necessary such areas (where improvements are not constructed), as required in this article.
(c)
Express written consent shall be required to remove an exceptional tree protected on the original plan.
(Code 1983, § 21-43)
Sec. 98-64. - Density requirements.
The quantity of total existing/replacement trees on a site must be sufficient so as to produce a total site density factor of no less than 15 units per acre. Procedures for determining the site density requirement and subsequent tree replacement requirements are provided in the city's tree preservation and replacement standards.
(Code 1983, § 21-44)
Sec. 98-65. - Maintenance.
Trees used to meet the density requirements for this article shall be maintained for one full growing season after the date of final inspection. After completion of the season, a permit shall be required to remove any tree in the protected zone.
(Code 1983, § 21-45)
