ARTICLE VII. - TAXATION OF BEVERAGES BY THE DRINK

Sec. 8-204. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Agent means the license representative.
Drink means any alcoholic beverage served for consumption on the premises that may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink, valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property or service of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee to the purchaser, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration of any alcoholic beverages by the drink.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-120), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-205. - Tax levied.
There is hereby imposed and there shall be paid a tax of three percent of the purchase price of every sale of an alcoholic beverage, including distilled spirits, malt beverages, fermented wines or fortified wines purchased by the drink in the city.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-121), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-206. - Collection of tax; information to city.
Every licensee or his agent is hereby authorized and directed to collect the tax herein imposed from purchasers of alcoholic beverages, including distilled spirits, malt beverages, fermented wines or fortified wines by the drink sold within his licensed premises. Such licensee or his agent shall furnish such information as may be requested by the city to facilitate the collection of this tax.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-122), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-207. - Payment of tax by licensee; collection fee.
(a)
Due date of taxes. All taxes collected by any licensee or agent hereunder shall be due and payable to the city on or before the tenth day of every month next succeeding each respective monthly period as set forth herein.
(b)
Return; time of filing; persons required to file; execution. On or before the tenth day of the month following each monthly period, a return for the preceding monthly period shall be filed with the city clerk of the city, in such form as the city may prescribe, by every licensee or agent liable for the payment of the tax hereunder.
(c)
Delivery of return and remittance. The person required to file the return shall deliver the return, together with the remittance of the net amount of tax due to the city clerk, to the city hall, 56 E. Malone Street, Fairburn, Georgia 30213.
(d)
Collection fee allowed licensees or agents. Licensees or agents collecting the tax shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting and paying the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of deduction shall be the same under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, approved February 20, 1951 (1951 Ga. Laws, page 360), as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-123), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-208. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Recomputation of tax; authority to make; basis of recomputation. If the city clerk is not satisfied with the return of the tax or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, the city clerk may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more than one deficiency determination may be made of the amount due for one or more than one monthly period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the city clerk may offset overpayments; for a period or periods, against underpayments; for another period or periods, against underpayments; for another period or periods, against penalties; and against the interest on underpayments. The interest on overpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in subsection (b) of this section.
(d)
Penalty; negligence or disregard of rules and regulations. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination has been made is due to gross negligence or disregard of rules and regulations, a penalty of 15 percent of the amount of such deficiency shall be added thereto.
(e)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If any part of the deficiency determination that has been made is due to fraud or an intent to evade any provision of this article or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto, in addition to the 15 percent penalty provided in subsection (d) of this section.
(f)
Notice of city clerk's determination; service of. The city clerk, or his designated representative, shall give to the licensee written notice of his determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the licensee at his address as it appears in the records of the city clerk. In the case of service by mail of any notice required by this article, the service is complete at the time of deposit in a United States post office.
(g)
Time within which notice of deficiency determination to be mailed. Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this article or authorized rules or regulations, or failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-124), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-209. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any licensee fails to make a return, the city clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the licensee, or as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales in the city which is subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the licensee failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information that is or may come into the possession of the city clerk. Upon the basis of this estimate, the city clerk shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid to the city, adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or for more than one period.
(b)
Manner of computation; offsets; interest. In making a determination, the city clerk may offset overpayments for a period against the interest, penalties or underpayments. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of 0.75 percent per month, or fraction thereof, from the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned, until the date of payment.
(d)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or an intent to evade this article or rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount required to be paid by the person, exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the 15 percent penalty provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(e)
Giving of notice; manner of service. Promptly after making his determination, the city clerk shall give to the person written notice to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-125), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-210. - Penalties and interest for failure to pay tax.
Any person who fails to pay the tax herein imposed to the city or fails to pay any amount of such tax required to be collected and paid to the city within the time required, shall pay a penalty in the amount of 15 percent of the tax plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof as set forth in section 8-208.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-126), 9-9-2003)
Sec. 8-211. - Administration; enforcement; rules; records; confidentiality of reports.
(a)
Authority of the city clerk. The city clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the levy and collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Rules and regulations. The city clerk shall have the power and authority to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article or other laws of the city and the state, or the constitution of this state or the United States for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this article and the collection of the taxes hereunder.
(c)
Records required from licensee; form. Every licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink in the city shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers in such form as the city clerk may require.
(d)
Examination of records; audits. The city clerk or any person authorized in writing by the city may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment and other facilities of any licensee liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the licensee, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(e)
Authority to require reports; contents. In the administration of the provisions of this article, the city clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in such person's or persons' possession or custody information relating to the sales of alcoholic beverages which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the city clerk and shall set forth the price charged for each sale, the date or dates of such sales, and such information as the city clerk may require.
(Ord. No. 2003-13, § I(3-127), 9-9-2003)
Secs. 8-212—8-230. - Reserved.
