ARTICLE V. - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

Sec. 14-127. - Imposed.
The city has levied an annual business license tax upon each financial institution located within the city at a rate of 0.25 percent of the gross receipts, as defined and allocated under this article, of said financial institution. The minimum annual amount of such tax upon any depository financial institution shall be $1,000.00.
(Code 1966, § 14-71; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-128. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Financial institution, banks, savings and loan associations, parent bank, branch bank, or bank office means those same terms as defined in the Financial Institutions Code of Georgia at O.C.G.A. § 7-1-1 et seq.
Gross receipts.
(1)
The term "gross receipts" means the total amount of revenue generated from the sources itemized in subsections (2) and (3) of this definition during the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the tax authorized by this article shall be due. Before determining gross receipts there shall be deducted:
a.
An amount equal to the amount of interest paid on all liabilities for the period;
b.
An amount equal to income derived from the authorized activities of any domestic international banking facility operating pursuant to the Domestic International Banking Facility Act, O.C.G.A. § 7-1-730 et seq.;
c.
An amount equal to any income arising from the conduct of a banking business with persons or entities located outside of the United States, its territories or possessions;
d.
An amount equal to a depository financial institution's gross income which is taxed under the tax laws of a state other than this state; and
e.
To the extent that any deductions are made pursuant to subsections (1)b, c and d of this definition, any deductions taken under subsection (1)a of this definition shall be reduced by the same proportion that the deductions in subsections (1)b, c and d of this definition bear to the gross receipts of the depository financial institution as calculated before making any deductions pursuant to subsections (1)a through d of this definition.
(2)
The items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to banks are as follows:
a.
Interest and fees on loans less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on balances with other depository financial institutions;
c.
Interest on federal or correspondent funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell;
d.
Interest on other bonds, notes and debentures, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
e.
Dividends on stock;
f.
Income from direct lease financing;
g.
Income from fiduciary activities;
h.
Service charges on deposit accounts;
i.
Other service charges, commissions and fees; and
j.
Other income.
(3)
The items to be included in the calculation of gross receipts with respect to savings and loan associations are as follows:
a.
Interest on mortgage loans less any interest collected on those portions of loans sold and serviced for others;
b.
Interest on mortgages, participations or mortgage-backed securities;
c.
Interest on real estate sold on contract;
d.
Discounts on mortgage loans purchased;
e.
Interest on other loans, excluding interest on obligations of the state or its political subdivisions and obligations of the United States;
f.
Interest and dividends on investments and deposits;
g.
Loan fees;
h.
Loan servicing fees;
i.
Other fees and charges;
j.
Gross income from real estate-owned operations;
k.
Net income from office building operations;
l.
Gross income from real estate held for investment;
m.
Net income from service corporations and subsidiaries;
n.
Miscellaneous operating income;
o.
Profit on sale of real estate owned, investment securities, loans and other assets; and
p.
Miscellaneous non-operating income.
(Code 1966, § 14-72; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-129. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction before the judge of the municipal court of city, be subject to the penalties provided in section 1-15.
(Code 1966, § 14-76; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-130. - Filing of tax return.
Each depository financial institution located within the city shall file a return of its gross receipts with the city by March 1 of each year following the year in which gross receipts are measured. Said return shall be filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the commissioner of the state department of revenue based on the allocation method set forth in section 14-74. The return shall provide the information necessary to determine the portion of the taxpayer's total gross receipts to be allocated to each taxing jurisdiction in which such institution has a place of business. The information contained in said returns shall be the basis for the city's assessment and collection of said tax.
(Code 1966, § 14-73; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-131. - Allocation of gross receipts of financial institutions with multi-jurisdictional locations.
(a)
A total gross receipts generated in the state by a depository financial institution shall be allocated among separate taxing jurisdictions as follows: If a depository financial institution shall have an office or a place of business in taxing jurisdictions outside of the city, the amount of gross receipts taxable by each taxing jurisdiction shall be the amount of gross receipts attributable to such offices or places of business as of December 31 of the year in which gross receipts are measured.
(b)
In determining the amount of gross receipts attributable to each location, 20 percent of the gross receipts shall be attributable to the parent bank. The remaining 80 percent of gross receipts shall be attributable to branch banks and bank offices; pro rata according to the number of such branch banks and bank offices, with none of the gross receipts attributable to bank facilities or other outlets not considered to be a parent bank, branch bank, or bank office. If there are fewer than five branch banks or bank offices in addition to the parent bank, the amount of gross receipts attributable to each such parent bank, branch bank or bank office shall be determined by dividing the total gross receipts by the aggregate number of such outlets. For purposes of this distribution formula only, the term "bank" also means a savings and loan association.
(Code 1966, § 14-74; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-132. - Lien taken for delinquent business license tax.
In addition to the other remedies herein provided for the collection of the business license tax herein levied, the city administrator, upon any tax or installment of said tax becoming delinquent and remaining unpaid, shall issue execution for the correct amount of said tax against the persons, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, which said execution shall bear interest at the highest rate allowable under law from the date when such tax or installment becomes delinquent, and the lien shall cover any property in the county of the person, partnership, or corporation liable for said tax, all as provided by the city's Charter and the laws of the state. The business license tax lien shall become fixed on and date from the time when such tax or any installment thereof becomes delinquent. The execution shall be levied by the city administrator upon the property of defendant in execution located in said jurisdiction, and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of said execution, with interest and costs. All other related proceedings shall be as provided by the city's Charter and ordinances and the laws of the state. The defendant in said execution shall have rights of defense by affidavit of illegality and otherwise, as provided by the applicable laws in regard to tax executions. When a nulla bona entry has been entered by the proper authority upon an execution issued by the city administrator against any person defaulting on the occupation tax, the person against whom the entry was made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatsoever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the entry of nulla bona has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due him as though he had never defaulted in the payment of taxes.
(Code 1966, § 14-75; Ord. No. 94-08, § 5, 10-24-1994)
Secs. 14-133—14-162. - Reserved.
