ARTICLE III. - COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENTS

Sec. 14-68. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Amusement center proprietor means any establishment where three or more coin-operated amusement machines are maintained which occupy less than 25 percent of the available floor space. As used herein, the terms "proprietor" and "amusement center proprietor," but not "arcade room proprietor" and "amusement center proprietor" shall be synonymous unless specifically provided otherwise.
Arcade room means any establishment where more than three coin-operated amusement machines are maintained which occupy more than 25 percent of the available floor space.
Arcade room proprietor means any proprietor of an arcade room as both terms are defined herein. As used herein, the terms "proprietor" and "arcade room proprietor" shall be synonymous unless specifically provided otherwise.
Available floor space includes all that space necessary for the placement, operation and use of the machines licensed hereunder and shall not be solely limited to the space occupied by the machines themselves.
Coin-operated amusement machine means any machine or device operated by means of the insertion of a coin, token, or similar object for the purpose of receiving the temporary services of said machine for recreation or a game of skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term does not include vending machines in which are not incorporated recreation features, nor does the term include any coin-operated mechanical musical devices or kiddie rides.
Proprietor means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club who, as the owner or lessee, has under his or its control any establishment, place or premises in or at which a coin-operated amusement machine is placed or kept for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play by the general public.
(Code 1966, § 14A-21; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994; Ord. No. 95-04, § 1, 2-13-1995)
Sec. 14-69. - Permit required.
No person shall engage in the business of an arcade room, without first having obtained the proper permit from the city and paid the proper regulatory fee therefor.
(Code 1966, § 14A-22; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-70. - Arcade room proprietor's regulatory fee.
The regulatory fee for each arcade room proprietor shall be such fee as established from time to time by resolution of the mayor and city council. Said regulatory fee shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year and shall be delinquent if not paid by March 1 of each year. All arcade room proprietors' regulatory fees shall be payable annually in advance. In no case shall any portion of said regulatory fee be refunded to the arcade room proprietor.
(Code 1966, § 14A-23; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-71. - Application for permit; posting, transfer of permit.
(a)
Application for permits hereunder shall be filed in writing with the city clerk, on forms to be provided by the city, and shall specify:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation, partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
(2)
Proprietors shall list the address of the premises where the permitted machine or machines are to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at such place.
(3)
Proprietors shall list the number of machines to be maintained on the premises.
(4)
The name and address of the owner of the machine, if other than the proprietor. This information shall not be released to the general public without the consent of the permit holder.
(5)
Whether or not the person having management of or supervision over the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense, and the punishment assessed therefor.
(b)
The proper regulatory fee shall accompany such application. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the permit holder. Such permit shall be nonassignable and nontransferable, and in the case of a proprietor, shall apply only to the premises for which such permit is issued. In addition, each machine shall have placed upon it by the permit holder a sticker showing the permit number of its proprietor.
(Code 1966, § 14A-24; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-72. - Character qualifications.
No permit shall be issued to or renewed for any person who has, or employs a person who has, within five years of issuance or renewal, been convicted of, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to, any felony involving any federal or state offense or any federal or state misdemeanor involving drug-related offenses or offenses involving moral turpitude; and the permit holder will submit the identity of all owners and employees to the city on a continuing basis as changes occur. This information is to be forwarded to the city police department, for the purpose of allowing a complete check in order that these character qualifications be fulfilled, prior to the issuance or renewal of any permit issued hereunder.
(Code 1966, § 14A-25; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-73. - Increasing number of devices.
In case a proprietor regulated under the provisions of this article desires, after the expiration of any portion of any permit year, to increase the number of machines to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his establishment, so that he then has three or more machines, he shall surrender his permit to the city clerk who shall issue a new arcade room proprietor permit upon payment of the proper regulatory fee therefor with any applicable credit for the previously paid regulatory fee.
(Code 1966, § 14A-26; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-74. - Revocation of permit.
In the event that it comes to the attention of the mayor and council that any coin-operated amusement device has created a nuisance to the surrounding community or has violated any provision of this article, the following procedure will be followed:
(1)
The city administrator shall issue a notice of objection that shall include the address of the location and the specific reasons the machine or machines in question are alleged to be a nuisance or alleged to violate any provision of this article. The city administrator will then notify the proprietor that a notice of objection has been filed and will set a date for a hearing before the mayor and council on this matter. Extensions and necessary investigations will be granted and conducted at the discretion of the city administrator.
(2)
At the time of the hearing, any resident, the proprietor and the city administrator may be heard. After this hearing, the mayor and council shall issue a "notice of decision" which will call for the dismissal of the objection, removal of the machines or such other remedy as they deem appropriate under the circumstances that are consistent with the purpose of this article.
(3)
The decision of the mayor and council shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for their decision and shall be based upon the merits of the case.
(4)
The decision of the mayor and council shall be final, but may be appealed to the appropriate court within 30 days.
(5)
The decision of the mayor and council shall be binding upon the proprietor of the machine under the consideration.
(Code 1966, § 14A-27; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994)
Sec. 14-75. - Operating regulations.
(a)
Generally. All businesses permitted hereunder shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
Devices to be kept in plain view; gambling devices prohibited. All such machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of and open and accessible to any person who may frequent or be in any place of business where such machines are kept or used. However, no machine shall be placed within five feet of any public entrance or exit. Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize or permit any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(2)
Inspection. The chief of police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place or building in which in any such machine or machines are operated or set up for operation and to inspect, investigate and test such machines as needed.
(3)
Attendant required. It shall be unlawful for any proprietor to open his business to the public unless an attendant is present. Said attendant shall be of sufficient mental and physical capacity so as to be able to provide aid to patrons if needed or desired. Said attendant shall not be less than 18 years of age.
(4)
Refunds and adjustments. Refunds and adjustments to all customers shall be the responsibility of the proprietor of the machine in question.
(5)
Loitering. As used in this section, the term "loitering" shall mean remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending time idly, loafing, or walking about aimlessly, and shall include the colloquial expression "hanging around." It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter within the immediate vicinity of any machine or business premises regulated hereunder, or for any person, firm or corporation permitted to operate an arcade room to permit loitering on or in the immediate vicinity of any machine or business premises regulated hereunder in such a manner as to:
a.
Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
b.
Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the comfort and repose of any person;
c.
Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
d.
Obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place.
(6)
Proper attire. All proprietors shall require shirts and shoes be worn at all times by any person frequenting their premises.
(7)
Pool tables. No proprietor, except amusement center proprietors, shall maintain pool tables or bumper pool tables on the premises.
(8)
Alcoholic beverages. No proprietor, except those licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, shall allow alcoholic beverages to be brought onto their premises by any person.
(9)
Restricted hours. No coin-operated amusement device shall be operated in any establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following morning.
(b)
Violation. Violation of any of the provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be sufficient grounds for revocation of the permit issued hereunder.
(Code 1966, § 14A-28; Ord. No. 94-08, § 10, 10-24-1994; Ord. No. 95-04, § 2, 2-13-1995)
Secs. 14-76—14-93. - Reserved.
