Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Penalties, § 65-559.

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances of Fairburn, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1966, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Authority to adopt ordinances for regulation of matters for which no provision has been made by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20; duty to codify ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
(a)
Applicability. In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council. The rules of construction and definitions set out in this section shall not be applied to any section of this Code which contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
(b)
Liberal construction; minimum requirements; overlapping provisions.
(1)
The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter when they shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
(2)
In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil, and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
(3)
All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
(4)
Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions on the subject matter than the other provisions of this Code, the provisions imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The specific controls over the general.
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-3. - Conventions and definitions.
As used herein, the following terms and phrases shall have the meanings indicated and the conventions stated shall be applied:
City. The term "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Fairburn" followed them, and they shall mean the City of Fairburn, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" refers to the Code of Ordinances of Fairburn, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, only the first and last day shall be counted. If the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following business day to exercise such privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, an intermediate Saturday, Sunday, and legal holiday shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by any of the conjunctions "and," "or," "either … or," or "neither … nor," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows; provided that in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The terms "either … or" and "neither … nor" indicate that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Council. The term "council" means the City Council of the City of Fairburn, Georgia.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Fulton in the State of Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize such department head or officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Department; board; agency. The name or title of any department, board, or agency, unless otherwise specifically stated otherwise, shall be read as though the words "of the City of Fairburn, Georgia," were added thereto.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Georgia Code. Whenever the designation Georgia Code appears herein, the same shall mean O.C.G.A., as defined herein.
Governing authority; governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the City Council of the City of Fairburn, Georgia, and its designees.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or a servant, agent or employee.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." refers to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments or other municipal agents by title only, such reference shall be read as though followed by the words "of the City of Fairburn, Georgia."
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, any lake or stream, and any street, avenue or thoroughfare.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature orsubscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Statute. The term "statute," unless otherwise specifically stated, refers to the indicated portion of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Street. The term "street" embraces streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant; occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" means seven days.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Written orin writing. The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing, duplicating, handwriting, or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1966, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines, notes, and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are intended merely to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes, Charter references and state law references that appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of the Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions, or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1966, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1966, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1966, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement. Charter amendments may be included in a like manner.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ through ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the mayor and council of the City of Fairburn, Georgia: That section ___ of The Code of Ordinances of Fairburn, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code, is to be added, the following language shall be used: "Be it ordained by the mayor and council of the City of Fairburn, Georgia: That The Code of Ordinances of Fairburn, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered ___, which said section reads as follows: …." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1966, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by addition or deletion, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the city council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-15.
(Code 1966, § 1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying, or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - Official time.
Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall mean Eastern Standard Time or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the city.
(Code 1966, § 1-9)
Sec. 1-11. - Prior offenses, penalties, contracts or rights not affected by adoption of Code.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance or resolution in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the same as ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of the ordinance adopting this Code, shall be considered continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-13. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any rates, fees or charges consistent with this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds for the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(3)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, such as prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way traffic or limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones;
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution consistent with this Code fixing salaries of, or providing policies and programs for, providing retirement, disability or death benefits for, officials, officers or employees of the city;
(5)
Any budget ordinance or appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any ordinance levying any tax;
(7)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution;
(8)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or vacating any street or public way in the city;
(9)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(10)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes therefor;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision within the city;
(12)
Any zoning ordinance or any ordinance regulating subdivisions or any ordinance regulating signs or any ordinance regulating building design standards;
(13)
Any ordinance or resolution adopted for purposes that have been consummated;
(14)
Any ordinance that is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect; and
(15)
Any resolution of the city not in conflict with this Code;
and all such ordinances or resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-14. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
The city maintains a schedule of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the city, including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the city's fee schedule, shall be established by resolution of the city council from time to time, as the council deems necessary. This section shall also apply to the fees associated with the issuance of licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages, as set forth in chapter 8.
Sec. 1-15. - General penalty; continuing violations; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
(a)
In this section, the phrase "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared to be an unlawful act, an offense, or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor, an offense, or an unlawful omission by ordinance, rule, or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
The phrase "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a officer or employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context of this Code that it is the intent of the city to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon a city officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, a person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, unless otherwise provided by law, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or work on the streets or public works for a period not exceeding six months, or both, or any combination thereof, unless otherwise provided by law.
(d)
All sentences must be in the alternative, and fines may be imposed with the alternative of the other punishment in the event the fines are not paid. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(e)
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, each day that a violation of this Code continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(f)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief and by such other means as are provided by law. Further, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law.
(g)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit equitable relief.
(h)
The imposition of a penalty does not prohibit revocation or suspension of a license, permit, or franchise or the imposition of other administrative sanctions.
(i)
All fines shall be paid into the city treasury.
(j)
In the event community service is substituted for a fine, the monetary rate for hourly work shall be the federal minimum hourly wage.
(k)
If it is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction that a punishment imposed under this Code conflicts with the laws of the state, the punishment shall be the maximum permitted by law.
State Law reference— Maximum penalties, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-154; additional penalties in certain traffic cases, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to impose community service as punishment, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-1; alternative sentences by municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-16. - Temporary suspension of code enforcement; designation of city sponsored event by resolution of the mayor and city council.
Whenever the mayor and city council shall determine by resolution to designate one or more city sponsored events, accompanied by a finding that the public interest would be served by a temporary suspension of certain provisions of the Code of Ordinances, the mayor and city council may provide for the temporary suspension of the applicability and enforcement of one or more provisions of the Code of Ordinances, and may provide that such provisions of the Code of Ordinances shall not apply to the designated city sponsored event at such place, at such time and in such a manner as specifically provided by said resolution.
(Ord. No. 2015-03, § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2015)
