Chapter 26 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 26-1—26-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

Sec. 26-19. - Created.
An emergency management agency is created in and for the city. The office of the emergency management agency shall be the city fire department.
State Law reference— Authority for establishment of local emergency management organization, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 26-20. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action, or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological, and other special weapons to include weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions to include victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 26-21. - Emergency management director—Office created.
There is hereby created the office of the city emergency management director. Such officer shall be nominated by the mayor, and appointed by the governor as provided by law.
(Code 1966, § 7-1; Ord. of 4-13-1964)
State Law reference— Authority for nomination of local director of emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-27.
Sec. 26-22. - Same—Duties.
The emergency management director is hereby charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the mayor on all matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To develop a city emergency management plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all the resources of the city, both private and public.
(3)
To obtain and utilize cooperation of city officials in the preparation and implementation of emergency management plans.
(4)
During periods of emergency, to direct the services of all city emergency management forces.
(5)
During periods of emergency, to obtain vital supplies and equipment lacking, needed for the protection of life and property of people and bind the city for the value thereof and if required immediately, requisition same.
(Code 1966, § 7-2; Ord. of 4-13-1964)
Sec. 26-23. - Agency organization.
The city emergency management agency shall be established around existing city departments, with the exception of those functions performed by the appropriate county officials. The assignment of emergency functions to departments shall be as determined by the direction. Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing appropriate annexes to the local emergency operations plan (EOP) for their assigned emergency functions. Such annexes will be submitted to the emergency management director for inclusion in the local EOP for submission to the appropriate local official for approval.
Sec. 26-24. - Powers during an emergency or disaster.
Upon a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency that may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the city may determine that an emergency or disaster exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
Seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
State Law reference— Powers of local governing bodies during state of emergency or disaster, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 26-25. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
State Law reference— Rights, privileges, and immunities of emergency aid workers, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-30.
Secs. 26-26—26-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATE OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER

Sec. 26-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this section from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals, unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, means those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the city council, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency means a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means the period of time that the disaster or emergency continues to cause disruptions in the area by the disaster or emergency. The subsequent recovery period shall not exceed six months after the state of emergency declaration by the governor is terminated unless extended by official action of the city council.
Sec. 26-55. - Overcharging prohibited.
In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency, or subsequent recovery period in which the city has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the city to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the city.
Sec. 26-56. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
To willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
To do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this city, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of the city.
(3)
To wear, carry or display, without authority, any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
State Law reference— Authority for local rules and regulations for emergency management, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-28.
Sec. 26-57. - Meetings of city council.
Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the city may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the city, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the city, all actions taken by the city council shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the city. The presiding officer or any two members of the council may call such meetings without regard to or compliance with time-consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
State Law reference— Operation of local governing authority during emergencies, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-54.
Sec. 26-58. - Purchasing and public works contracts.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, his designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; however, any public works contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be entered on the minutes of the city as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
Sec. 26-59. - Code enforcement.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or his designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of the city Code, or any portion thereof, if:
(1)
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the code is required;
(2)
Suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
(3)
Suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
Sec. 26-60. - Temporary dwellings.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, his designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired; provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and the plans are approved by the county health department and building and inspections department. The temporary permit shall not exceed six months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the city council or his designee, the permit may be extended for a period for an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
Sec. 26-61. - Curfew.
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the city council, or his designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the city council, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and the property of the city. All of the territory of the city shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution. The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
Sec. 26-62. - Prohibition of appearance in public places.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew including, not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or any other delineated part of the city during the stated hours of the curfew.
Sec. 26-63. - City operations.
To promote civil stability and to provide basic services to the city in the case of emergencies or hazardous inclement weather, it is essential that the city be able to maintain an adequate workforce. Sections 26-64 and 26-65 shall guide the conduct of city employees in the event of an emergency or a hazardous inclement weather situation.
Sec. 26-64. - Essential employees.
All essential employees engaged in the protection of citizens and emergency services shall be required to report to work at their regular shift unless called in early by their immediate supervisor, the city administrator or the emergency management director. Essential officers and employees are defined as the city administrator, constitutional officers, EMA director, the police chief, police officers, police and other dispatchers, emergency medical service providers, road department employees and code enforcement personnel.
Sec. 26-65. - Nonessential employees.
(a)
The mayor or the city administrator, in consultation with the EMA director, the road superintendent and the police chief, shall decide whether to open the courthouse and other city work facilities. It shall be their responsibility to notify city officers if the courthouse is to be closed. If the courthouse is open, all employees in all offices are expected to report for their assigned shift. If the courthouse is not opened for business at the regular opening hour, all employees are required to check in with the courthouse periodically for updates. Employees will not be paid for regular hours that the courthouse is not in operation.
(b)
Any employee not able to report for their assigned shift may take annual leave for those hours. If an employee reports for work and is then sent home by the closing of the courthouse the employee will be paid for the remainder of the day. The mayor or the city administrator shall make the decision to close the courthouse. All decisions regarding the pay of employees falls under the fiscal responsibility and control of the city council.
Secs. 26-66—26-88. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 26-89. - Purpose and intent.
The purpose of this article is to regulate the responsibilities of those persons who purchase, rent, or use alarm systems, devices, or services. This article is also intended to encourage the improvement in reliability of these systems, devices, and services and to ensure that police and fire department personnel will not be unduly diverted from responding to actual emergencies as a result of responding to false alarms.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-90. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm means and includes any fire, robbery, burglary, holdup, medical or panic alarm that transmits any signal (audible, visual or silent) to the city, indicating a predetermined emergency condition exists whether the alarm is received:
(1)
By a telephone line to a designated position on an alarm panel;
(2)
By a private alarm service company relayed to the city;
(3)
By an automated telephone alarm system playing a recorded message when received by the city; or
(4)
By a signal relayed to the city by a third party.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system to which the city responds and the investigating police officer or firefighter determines that none of the emergencies for which the alarm system has been installed have in fact occurred.
Habitual false alarms means false alarms exceeding three in a 30-day period.
Response means the dispatch of any police or fire unit to premises where an alarm has been activated or the arrival of an officer to the location by any means of notification.
Telephone alarm system means any alarm system that automatically transmits by telephone.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-91. - Penalties.
In addition to response fees, citations may be issued for habitual false alarms and/or failure to pay response fees. The defendant shall be required to appear in court to answer the charge. Upon conviction, the court shall require the defendant to pay a minimum court fine of $500.00 in addition to all response fees.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-92. - Number of false alarms; free response limited.
Every establishment or residence within the city limits having an alarm system, including those alarms which are audible or visible on premises, shall be entitled to report a combined maximum of three false alarms to which the city responds without charge in a 30-day period.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-93. - Natural disturbances not counted against limitation.
Whenever four or more alarms from separate establishments or residences within the city are received on the control panel or by telephone at the law enforcement center or fire department, within any 30-minute period, which subsequently turn out to be false alarms, the alarms shall be presumed to be caused by natural disturbances, such as electrical storms, etc., whereby no charge shall be imposed by the city nor shall alarms occurring during such periods be counted toward the allowance described in section 26-92.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-94. - Grace period for new installations.
No alarms shall be counted during the initial 30 days from the date of each new installation.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
Sec. 26-95. - Response fees for false alarms.
Upon receipt of a third false alarm during a 30-day period, the city shall issue a warning notice to the occupant advising that a response fee as determined by the city council will be imposed for each subsequent false alarm received by the city during the following 180 days.
(Ord. No. 2003-8, § 16-33, 7-28-2003)
