ARTICLE VIII. - AMBULANCES AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— County authorized to fix, charge, or assess license fee or registration fee on ambulance and emergency medical service, and authorized to establish additional regulations regarding ambulance service, O.C.G.A. § 31-11-10.

Sec. 28-268. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this article, the following words shall have the meanings as set forth below unless otherwise required by context. Definitions contained in O.C.G.A. Title 31, Chapter 11 and more particularly set forth in O.C.G.A. § 31-11-2 and in Rules and Regulations for Ambulance Services Chapter 290-5-30 (Ga. Comp. R. & Rules Ch. 290-5-30) are hereby incorporated by reference; provided, however, that terms defined therein which are not used in this article shall be deemed to be inoperative.
Board means Liberty County board of commissioners.
County license means an ambulance service license issued by Liberty County that signifies that the licensee and its facilities and operations comply with this article.
County license officer means the county administrator or his designee.
(b)
The board shall specify from time to time the division or agency of the county which shall have supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to the provisions of the article. Whenever there is any requirement for the county to take any action or receive any action, the designated division or agency shall act on behalf of the county.
(Code 1987, § 11-146; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-269. - Affected services.
This article shall apply to any ambulance service which is proposed by any person to be located within the county or whose services are offered to county residents, except that this article shall not apply to the following:
(1)
An ambulance service operated by an agency of the United States government.
(2)
A vehicle operated by a person who is not licensed to furnish emergency medical services and who is rendering assistance temporarily, such as in the case of a major catastrophe or emergency.
(3)
A licensed ambulance service requested to provide services as specified in any valid mutual aid agreement.
(4)
An ambulance transporting a patient from a hospital in the county to a location outside of the county.
(5)
An ambulance operated from a location outside of the county and transporting a patient, picked up beyond the limits of the county, to locations within the county.
(Code 1987, § 11-147; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-270. - General operations.
(a)
General compliance. All ambulance services, its vehicles and personnel shall at all times, be operated in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders and decrees of the state and of the county.
(b)
Ambulance service license. No ambulance service shall commence operations until such time as a valid ambulance service license has been obtained from the county license officer. All ambulance service licenses shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation, as provided herein, for any violation of this article or any other ordinance or regulation of the county.
(c)
Base station. All ambulance services operating within the county must have a permanent base of operations located within the county.
(d)
Hours of operation. All ambulance services operating within the county must provide said services 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(e)
Staffing. All ambulance service operating within the county shall have at least two qualified and certified personnel on duty and available to answer calls for assistance, at all times. At least one of these individuals must be certified as a paramedic or a cardiac technician.
(f)
Vehicles. All vehicles operated by any ambulance service operating within the county shall be equipped to provide advanced life support at all times.
(g)
Public access. All ambulance service operating within the county must not advertise or encourage the use of any other telephone number other than 9-1-1 for emergency calls. Said services must establish a local or toll free telephone number for residents to arrange for nonemergency transportation and/or business calls.
(h)
Zoning plan. All ambulance services operating within the county must comply at all times to the regional ambulance zoning plan. Violation of this plan shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Code 1987, § 11-148; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-271. - Application for license.
(a)
Any person desiring to operate an ambulance service as provided in this article shall make written application to the county license officer. The application shall be made on forms provided by the county license officer for that purpose and shall contain as a minimum, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
(1)
The name of the applicant.
(2)
The permanent address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
The local address and telephone number of the applicant.
(4)
The applicant's social security number or federal employer identification number.
(5)
If the applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation.
(6)
If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or other business entity, the name, home address, date of birth, age, and social security number of the principal representative in the county, as well as each partner.
(7)
The training and experience of the applicant and all other employees involved in the transportation and care of patients.
(8)
The name of the business represented by the applicant, if different from the applicant.
(9)
The permanent address and telephone number of the base station required by this article from which ambulance services operate.
(10)
A picture and description of each ambulance, including the make, model, year of manufacture, motor type, and color scheme, insignia, name, monogram or other distinguishing characteristics to be used to designate applicant's ambulance.
(b)
The license application shall be signed under oath by the applicant. All applications, except those submitted by governmental agencies, shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee to defray the administrative costs of such application. The nonrefundable fee shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners, from time to time.
(Code 1987, § 11-149; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-272. - Review and approval; issuance.
Any application for a license under this article shall be reviewed by the county license officer or his designee to ensure compliance with the requirements hereof and all other laws, regulations and ordinances of the county and the state. No ambulance service license shall be issued to any person who does not hold a valid ambulance service license from the state department of human resources. Licenses are not transferable with respect to person or location.
(Code 1987, § 11-150; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-273. - Grounds for disapproval, suspension or revocation.
No application shall be approved and any license previously issued may be suspended or revoked if any investigation determines that:
(1)
Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement is contained in the application for license;
(2)
The applicant, or any principal participant in the business, has been convicted within the past five years of a felony, or of any crime involving moral turpitude, whether in connection with operation of the business or not;
(3)
The business is operated or is proposed to be operated in a manner so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public, or otherwise contract to the laws of the state and/or the county; or
(4)
Any violation of this article is committed.
(Code 1987, § 11-151; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-274. - Suspension of license.
(a)
The board, or its duly appointed hearing officer, may suspend any license to operate an ambulance service for failure to comply with the requirements of this article as set forth in section 28-273. The board, or its duly appointed hearing officer, shall perform no such suspension prior to providing an opportunity for a hearing, except that an emergency summary suspension may be performed, for a period not to exceed 20 days, if warranted by substantial and immediate or eminent hazard to the public health as determined by the board or its duly appointed hearing officer.
(b)
License holders shall be notified in writing upon suspension of the ambulance service license. Such notice shall provide an opportunity for deficiency correction and compliance by the license holder and may provide for the termination of the suspension when compliance is attained.
(Code 1987, § 11-152; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-275. - Revocation of license.
(a)
The board, or its duly appointed hearing officer, may revoke any license to operate an ambulance service for failure to comply with the requirements of this article as set forth in section 28-273. The board, or its duly appointed hearing officer, shall perform no such revocation prior to providing an opportunity for a hearing.
(b)
No ambulance provider, nor any owner, partner or corporate officer thereof, whose license is revoked for failure to comply with or to maintain compliance with the applicable provisions of this article shall be entitled to be relicensed or to be a party to a like service under any other license for a period of at least one year.
(Code 1987, § 11-153; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-276. - Indemnification; insurance.
(a)
Application and issuance of a license hereunder shall constitute a covenant that any person, firm or corporation owning or operating an ambulance service within the county shall indemnify and hold harmless the county and any resident of the county for any loss or damage resulting from the operations of the ambulance service.
(b)
The ambulance service shall be required to maintain at all times insurance coverage for each ambulance in amounts not less than the minimum required by state law. Such insurance shall be issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in Georgia and shall further provide personal liability coverage in the amount of $500,000.00 or more. The ambulance service license holder shall notify the county license officer of any cancellation of insurance or failure to renew such insurance that would constitute a violation of this article.
(Code 1987, § 11-154; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Sec. 28-277. - Penalty.
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article and all procedures for enforcement hereof shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. Title 15, Chapter 10, Article 4 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.). Complaints of violations of any provision contained herein shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the county license officer or the chief magistrate of Liberty County and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this article will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney as determined by the county license officer. Service of citation shall be performed by the constable of the magistrate's court of the county, citations shall meet all the official requirements as specified in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended. It is provided, however, that the county retains any and all civil remedies, including the right of civil injunction for the prevention of said violations and for the recovery of money damages therefor.
(Code 1987, § 11-155; Ord. of 1-6-1998, § 1)
Secs. 28-278—28-302. - Reserved.
