Chapter 18 - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION

Sec. 18-1. - Title.
This chapter will be known as the "Liberty County Groundwater Recharge Area Protection Ordinance."
(Code 1987, § 8.5-1; Ord. No. 1999-003, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 18-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aquifer means any stratum or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Drastic means the standardized system for evaluating groundwater pollution potential using the hydrogeologic settings described in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency document EPA-600/2-87-035. (Note: the "Drastic" methodology is the most widely used technique for evaluation of pollution susceptibility.)
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of an aquifer to being polluted from spills, discharges, leaks, impoundment's, applications of chemicals, injections and other human activities in the recharge area. Recharge areas are determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium, or low based on the Hydrologic Atlas 20, Groundwater Pollution Susceptibility Map of Georgia, prepared by the department of natural resources.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps of relative vulnerability to pollution prepared by the department of natural resources, using the drastic methodology. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land area of the state into areas having high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Recharge area means any portion of the earth's surface, where water infiltrates into the ground to replenish an aquifer.
Significant recharge areas means those areas mapped by the department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition). Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology, soil type and thickness, slope, density or lithologic contacts, geologic structure, the presence of karst, and potentiometric surfaces.
(Code 1987, § 8.5-2; Ord. No. 1999-003, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 18-3. - Criteria in significant recharge areas.
The following criteria shall apply in significant recharge areas as identified in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within the unincorporated area of the county:
(1)
New aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks, having a minimum volume of 660 gallons, shall have secondary containment for 110 percent of the volume of such tanks or 110 percent of the volume of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt from this requirement, provided they comply with all federal requirements.
(2)
New agricultural waste impoundment sites shall be lined if they are within:
a.
A high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
A medium pollution susceptibility area and exceeds 15 acre-feet in size; or
c.
A low pollution susceptibility area and exceeds 50 acre-feet in size.
As a minimum, the liner shall be constructed of compacted clay having a thickness of one foot and a vertical hydraulic conductivity of less than 5 × 10 -7 cm/sec or other criteria established by the Natural Resource Conservation Service.
(3)
New homes served by septic tank/drain field systems shall be on lots having the following minimum size limitations as identified in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems ("DHR Section M"):
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot size in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
Any lot of record on the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of this subsection and the minimum lot size requirements of the county zoning ordinance shall be resolved in favor of the provision that establishes the larger minimum lot size.
(4)
New mobile home parks served by septic tank/drain field systems shall have lots or spaces having the following minimum size limitations as identified in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems ("DHR Section M"):
a.
150 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a high pollution susceptibility area;
b.
125 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space size in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a medium pollution susceptibility area; and
c.
110 percent of the subdivision minimum lot or space in Section M of the Department of Human Resources' Manual for On-Site Sewage Management Systems if they are within a low pollution susceptibility area.
Any lot of record on the date of the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be exempt from the minimum lot size requirements of this section. Any conflict between the minimum lot size requirements of this section and the minimum lot size requirements of the county zoning ordinance shall be resolved in favor of the provision that establishes the larger minimum lot size.
(5)
No construction may proceed on a building or mobile home to be served by a septic tank unless the county health department first approves the proposed septic tank installation as meeting the standards of the DHR manual and minimum lot size requirements.
(6)
New facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in Section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable federal spill prevention requirements and any local fire prevention code requirements.
(7)
Permanent stormwater infiltration basins shall not be constructed in areas having high pollution susceptibility.
(Code 1987, § 8.5-3; Ord. No. 1999-003, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 18-4. - Permit requirements.
The permitting criteria in chapter 8 shall apply in significant recharge areas as identified in Hydrologic Atlas 18 (1989 edition) within the unincorporated area of the county.
(Code 1987, § 8.5-4; Ord. No. 1999-003, 11-2-1999)
Sec. 18-5. - Conflicting provisions.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any other provisions of this Code of Ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and the other conflicting provisions shall be deemed repealed insofar as they would otherwise apply to the subject of this chapter.
(Code 1987, § 8.5-5; Ord. No. 1999-003, 11-2-1999)
