ARTICLE IX. - TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— Advanced Broadband Collocation Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-66B-1 et seq.

Sec. 28-303. - Operating permit required.
(a)
All owners of telecommunications towers and antennas are hereby required to register and obtain an operating permit on or before July 31 each calendar year.
(b)
All applications for an operating permit shall be made to the operating permit officer as designated by the county administrator from time to time. The application, operating permit forms and other documents and papers necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this article shall be on such forms as may be prepared by the county administration. No application shall be considered by the operating permit officer or the governing authority until such application is complete and accompanied by all necessary documents, papers, and other evidence of eligibility as may be set forth or otherwise required by the application. All such applications shall be sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by a manager or member if a limited liability company, or by an officer or equivalent position if a corporation or other legal entity.
(Code 1987, § 11-161; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 1, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-304. - Separate operating permit required.
All telecommunications towers, each antenna located thereon, on a rooftop or other location, shall each obtain a separate certificate, paying a separate fee for each such certificate.
(Code 1987, § 11-162; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 2, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-305. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
Within 90 days from receipt of a fully completed application submitted in accordance with this article, the operating permit officer or his designee shall issue a written determination granting, granting subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate, or denying the operating permit in whole or in part. If the operating permit is denied the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
(b)
All regulatory fees required in connection with any approved operating permits must be paid in full to the operating permit officer at the time the application is submitted.
(c)
Notwithstanding any terminology used in this article or any other provision herein to the contrary, the granting of an operating permit for one year shall in no way vest any rights or privileges whatsoever to any renewal or subsequent operating permit, and such person must satisfy in full the requirements for such operating permit established by ordinance at the time of such renewal.
(Code 1987, § 11-163; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 3, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-306. - Denial, suspension and revocation of operating permit.
(a)
An operating permit or an application for an operating permit under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked only for due cause as defined in subsection (c) of this section. An operating permit may be denied or suspended by the operating permit officer as set forth in this article; provided, however, that an operating permit may be revoked only after a hearing before the governing authority of the county with prior written notice to the applicant or permittee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the reason the operating permit is to be revoked. Ten days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem the circumstances justify. If an operating permit is denied by the operating permit officer under this article, the reasons for such denial shall be set forth in writing to the applicant. The applicant shall have 30 days following receipt of notice of denial to appeal the decision of the operating permit officer to the governing authority, which shall review such application de novo at the next regular meeting of the governing authority following receipt of any such appeal, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 45 days following said appeal; provided, however, that any appeal received within ten business days prior to the next regular meeting of the governing authority shall be heard at the second regularly scheduled meeting of said governing authority following receipt of said appeal. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the operating permit officer, then the operating permit shall be denied. If the decision of the operating permit officer is reversed, then the operating permit shall be issued to the applicant. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to issue the operating permit subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(b)
The operating permit officer may suspend an operating permit where there is evidence of due cause under subsection (c) of this section for revoking the operating permit. Such action by the operating permit officer shall be reported, in writing, to the governing authority. This action shall be reviewed at the next regular meeting of the governing authority, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 45 days following said suspension; provided, however, that any appeal received within ten days prior to the next regular meeting of the governing authority shall be heard at the second regularly scheduled meeting of said governing authority following receipt of a suspension notice. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the operating permit officer, then the operating permit shall be permanently revoked. If the decision of the operating permit officer is reversed, then the operating permit shall be returned to the permittee immediately. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to return the operating permit to the permittee subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(c)
An operating permit or application therefor under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked only if one or more of the following exists:
(1)
The applicant or permittee has failed to obtain any certificate, approval, or document necessary as may be required by any office, agency or department of the county, state or United States under authority of any law, ordinance or resolution of the county, state or United States.
(2)
The applicant or permittee has supplied false information to the operating permit officer or the governing authority.
(3)
The applicant or permittee has violated any county, state or federal law, or any ordinance or resolution regulating the telecommunications tower and antenna.
(4)
The applicant or permittee has failed to pay any fee required under this article, has failed to make a return or pay a tax due to the county tax commissioner in connection with its business or any predecessor business (to include, without limitation, occupational tax or real or personal property ad valorem tax), or has otherwise failed to comply with the provisions of this article; provided, however, that an operating permit may not be denied, suspended or revoked under this article with respect to ad valorem taxes (whether real or personal property):
a.
Due in the current calendar year;
b.
Presently the subject of lawful appeal; or
c.
Not collectible by virtue of duly enacted statute, ordinance, or other law.
For purposes of this subsection (c)(4), a predecessor business (whether a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, or other entity) shall be a business engaged in substantially the same or related business as the applicant and from whom the applicant acquired title to or possession of a substantial portion of its business property, either directly or indirectly, whether real or personal, and for which taxes are outstanding.
(5)
There are conditions on the licensed premises or in the business operations conducted thereon that endanger public health or safety.
(6)
The applicant or permittee fails to cooperate with any officer, agent or employee of the county who is authorized or directed to inspect the premises used for or in connection with a telecommunications tower or antenna.
(Code 1987, § 11-164; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 4, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-307. - Regulatory fees.
The regulatory fees levied and charged for all persons and businesses subject thereto shall be in amounts as established by the board of commissioners from time to time, and will be set forth on a schedule, a copy of which is on file in the county administrator's office and the office of the operating permit officer. Regulatory fees are levied and assessed in addition to any business or occupational taxes assessed and levied under this Code.
(Code 1987, § 11-165; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 5, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-308. - Proper zoning required.
No telecommunications towers or antennas shall be allowed in an area or location of the county for which such activity or enterprise is not a permitted use under the terms and provisions of the zoning ordinance of the county.
(Code 1987, § 11-166; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 6, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-309. - Inspections.
(a)
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with a telecommunications tower or antenna are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the permittee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer, agent, or employee of the county who is authorized or directed to make such inspection, at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, any applicant or permittee who refuses to allow any authorized officer, agent or employee to make any inspection provided for in subsection (a) of this section, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection, may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of section 28-306.
(Code 1987, § 11-167; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 7, 6-1-2010)
Sec. 28-310. - Penalties for violation.
In addition to the other remedies available to the county for violation of this article set forth herein or in any other applicable provision of this Code, the magistrate court of the county, after notice to the applicant or permittee and hearing, may impose a civil fine for failure to comply with the provisions of this article or a sentence not to exceed 60 days. Such a civil fine shall not exceed $500.00 per day and may be enforced by the contempt power of the court. In addition, the applicant or permittee shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the governing authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this article. Without limiting the foregoing, the county is specifically empowered to compel compliance with this article by injunction or other similar petition in the Superior Court of Liberty County, Georgia.
(Code 1987, § 11-168; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 8, 6-1-2010)
