ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - License required.
(a)
All persons, including individuals, associations, corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities of whatever nature or description, engaged in business in the unincorporated area of the county are hereby required to register their business or office and obtain a business license therefor, and pay the amount now or hereafter fixed as the occupation tax thereon.
(b)
Even though a person may be exempt under state or other law from paying an occupation tax, nevertheless, such person must apply for and obtain a business license to engage in or carry on any business within the unincorporated areas of the county and submit proper and lawful credentials exempting such person from paying the occupation tax.
(c)
All applications for a business license shall be made to the business license officer as designated by the county administrator from time to time. The application, license forms and other documents and papers necessary to the implementation and enforcement of this article shall be on such forms as may be prepared by the business license officer and approved by the county administrator. No application shall be considered by the business license officer or the governing authority until such application is complete and accompanied by all necessary documents, papers, and other evidence of eligibility as may be set forth or otherwise required by the application. All such applications shall be sworn to by the applicant if an individual, or by a partner if a partnership, or by a manager or member if a limited liability company, or by an officer or equivalent position if a corporation or other legal entity.
(Code 1987, § 11-1; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-2. - Separate business license required.
(a)
Each business license issued pursuant to this article shall authorize the conduct of one place of business only, at the business location or office, and persons engaging in business in more than one location or office within the unincorporated portions of the county shall obtain a separate certificate for each location, paying a separate fee for each such certificate.
(b)
If the location or office has several separate structures which are used as part of one general business operation of the user (in this section "user" shall not include landlord or lessor) of the structures, then for the purposes of the requirements to obtain a business license, such business operation shall be deemed to have but one location.
(c)
A separate business license shall be required for each separate and distinct business operation located within the same structure.
(Code 1987, § 11-2; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-3. - Procedure for issuance.
(a)
Within ten business days from receipt of a fully completed application submitted in accordance with this article, the business license officer shall either approve or deny the application; provided, however, that the following applications shall be forwarded to the governing authority for action:
(1)
Establishments selling wine, spirits, or other alcoholic beverages;
(2)
Business operations which could later result in a nuisance or otherwise potentially jeopardize the public health, peace, welfare, or safety, as determined by the business license officer; or
(3)
Businesses for which the governing authority's approval is required under the ordinances of the county.
Upon review, the governing authority may elect to approve, deny, or approve the application subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(b)
All regulatory fees required in connection with any approved business licenses must be paid in full to the business license officer within 30 days following approval. If such regulatory fees are not paid by the licensee within the aforementioned thirty-day period, the license will be declared null and void, requiring that a new application be submitted for consideration.
(c)
All licensees wishing to renew their business license from the previous year shall make application for such license on or before January 31 on such forms as may be prepared by the business license officer and approved by the county administrator. Notwithstanding any terminology used in this article or any other provision herein to the contrary, the granting of a license for one year shall in no way vest any rights or privileges whatsoever to a licensee to any renewal or subsequent license, and such person must satisfy in full the requirements for such business license established by ordinance at the time of such renewal.
(Code 1987, § 11-3; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-4. - Display of license.
All licenses issued under this article shall be posted conspicuously in the place of business of the person to whom the license is issued.
(Code 1987, § 11-4; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-5. - Denial, suspension and revocation of license.
(a)
A business license or an application for a business license under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked only for due cause as defined in subsection (c) of this section. A business license may be denied or suspended by the business license officer as set forth in this article; provided, however, that a business license may be revoked only after a hearing before the governing authority of the county upon a prior written notice to the applicant or licensee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the reason why the license is to be revoked. Three days' notice shall be deemed reasonable, but shorter or longer periods of notice shall be authorized as the board of commissioners may deem the circumstances justify. Unless the circumstances otherwise justify, the hearing shall be generally held no later than 45 days after the fully completed application is filed with the business license officer, or after the officer has suspended a business license. If a business license is denied by the business license officer under this article, the reasons for such denial shall be set forth in writing to the applicant. The applicant shall have 30 days following receipt of notice of denial to appeal the decision of the business license officer to the governing authority, which shall review such application de novo at the next regular meeting of the governing authority following receipt of any such appeal, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 45 days following said appeal; provided, however, that any appeal received within ten business days prior to the next regular meeting of the governing authority shall be heard at the second regularly scheduled meeting of said governing authority following receipt of said appeal. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the business license officer, then the license shall be denied. If the decision of the business license officer is reversed, then the license shall be issued to the applicant. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to issue the license subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(b)
The business license officer may suspend a business license where there is evidence of due cause under subsection (c) of this section for revoking the license. Such action by the business license officer shall be reported, in writing, to the governing authority. This action shall be reviewed at the next regular meeting of the governing authority, or, at the election of said governing authority, at a special meeting within 30 days following said suspension. If the governing authority affirms the decision of the business license officer, then the license shall be permanently revoked. If the decision of the business license officer is reversed, then the license shall be returned to the licensee immediately. Alternatively, the governing authority may elect to return the license to the licensee subject to such reasonable conditions as the governing authority deems appropriate.
(c)
A business license or application therefor under this article may be denied, suspended or revoked only if one or more of the following exists:
(1)
The applicant or licensee has failed to obtain any paper, approval, or document necessary in pursuance of its business as may be required by any office, agency or department of the county, state or United States under authority of any law, ordinance or resolution of the county, state or United States.
(2)
The applicant or licensee has supplied false information to the business license officer or the governing authority.
(3)
The applicant or licensee has violated any federal or state law involving moral turpitude, any state or federal gambling law or local ordinance or any ordinance or resolution regulating such business, or has violated any regulation made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business.
(4)
The applicant or licensee has failed to pay any fee required under this article, has failed to make a return or pay a tax due to the tax commissioner of the county in connection with its business or any predecessor business (to include, without limitation, occupational tax or real or personal property ad valorem tax), or has otherwise failed to comply with the provisions of this article; provided, however, that a business license may not be denied, suspended or revoked under this article with respect to ad valorem taxes (whether real or personal property):
a.
Due in the current calendar year;
b.
Presently the subject of lawful appeal; or
c.
Not collectible by virtue of duly enacted statute, ordinance, or other law.
For purposes of this subsection (c)(4), a predecessor business (whether a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, or other entity) shall be a business engaged in substantially the same or related business as the applicant and from whom the applicant acquired title to or possession of a substantial portion of its business property, either directly or indirectly, whether real or personal, and for which taxes are outstanding.
(5)
The applicant or licensee during the 12 months next preceding has engaged in misrepresentation of facts, whether through advertisement or through any form of direct communication, oral or written, which is intended to mislead the public or any party with whom the licensee deals in pursuance of the licensed business. By way of illustration only, and without limiting the scope of this subsection, the term "due cause" as used in this section shall consist of any act or practice designated as unlawful in O.C.G.A. § 10-1-393(b) or declared by the administrator of the Fair Business Practices Act to be unlawful pursuant to regulations made under O.C.G.A. § 10-1-394, subject to the exemptions contained in O.C.G.A. § 10-1-396.
(6)
Allowing any condition on the licensed premises or in the business operations that endangers public health or safety.
(Code 1987, § 11-5; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-6. - Regulatory fees.
The regulatory fees levied and charged for all persons and businesses subject thereto are set forth on a schedule R, a copy of which is on file in the county administrator's office and the office of the business license officer. Regulatory fees are levied and assessed in addition to any business or occupational taxes assessed and levied under this Code.
(Code 1987, § 11-6; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-7. - Proper zoning required.
No regulated business activity or enterprise regulated, permitted, allowed or licensed under this article shall be allowed in an area or location of the county for which such activity or enterprise is not a permitted use under the terms and provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of Liberty County, Georgia.
(Code 1987, § 11-7; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-8. - Inspections.
(a)
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed business are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer, agent, or employee of the county who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested.
(b)
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the license of any proprietor or business who refuses to permit any authorized officer, agent or employee to make any inspection provided for in subsection (a) hereinabove, or who interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection, may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of section 28-5.
(Code 1987, § 11-8; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Sec. 28-9. - Penalties for violation.
In addition to the other remedies available to the county for violation of this article set forth herein or in any other applicable provision of this Code of Ordinances, the magistrate court of the county, after notice to the applicant or licensee and hearing, may impose a civil fine for failure to comply with the provisions of this article or a sentence not to exceed 60 days. Such a civil fine shall not exceed $500.00 and may be enforced by the contempt power of the court, and in addition the applicant or licensee shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the governing authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this article. Without limiting the foregoing, the county is specifically empowered to compel compliance with this article by injunction or other similar petition in the Superior Court of Liberty County, Georgia.
(Code 1987, § 11-9; Ord. of 10-8-2002, § I)
Secs. 28-10—28-36. - Reserved.
