PART I - LOCAL AND SPECIAL ACTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-1 et seq.; claims against counties, O.C.G.A. § 36-11-1 et seq.; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1.

ARTICLE I. - LIBERTY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1935 Ga. Laws (Act No. 118), page 717, which created and established the board of commissioners of the county. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Pursuant to 1976 Ga. Const. art. VI, § VI, ¶ IV, the term "ordinary" has been changed to "judge of the probate court." Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-5-20, the term "commissioners of roads and revenues" has been changed to "board of commissioners" and the term "commissioner of roads and revenues" has been changed to "commissioner."

Sec. 1. - [Board created.]
(a)
There is created the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County consisting of a chairperson and six additional members.
(b)
For purposes of electing members of the Board of Commissioners, Liberty County is divided into seven commissioner districts. Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 shall be and correspond to those six numbered districts described in and attached to and made a part of this Act and further identified as Plan Name: libertyplan2r Plan Type: Local User: staff Administrator: Liberty. Commissioner District 7 shall consist of all the territory embraced within Liberty County.
(c)
When used in such attachment, the terms 'Tract' and 'BG' (Block Group) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. The separate numeric designations in a Tract description which are underneath a 'BG' heading shall mean and describe individual Blocks within a Block Group as provided in the report of the Bureau of the Census for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Liberty County which is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Any part of Liberty County which is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part which contains the least population according to the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia. Except as otherwise provided in the description of any commissioner district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the United States decennial census of 2000 for the State of Georgia.
(d)
Those members of the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County who are serving as such on June 1, 2002, and any person selected to fill a vacancy in any such office shall continue to serve as such members until the regular expiration of their respective terms of office and upon the election and qualification of their respective successors as specified in Section 2 of this Act. On and after June 1, 2002, Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 shall continue to be designated as Commissioner Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, respectively, but as newly described under this Act, and on and after June 1, 2002, such members of the board serving from those former commissioner districts shall be deemed to be serving from and representing their respective districts as newly described under this Act.
(1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), page 2237, § 1; 2002 Ga. Laws (Act No. 412), page 3624, § 1)
Sec. 2. - [Chairperson.]
(a)
The members serving on the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County on the effective date of this Act shall continue to serve until December 31, 2002, at which time their terms shall expire.
(b)
The chairperson of the Board of Commissioners shall be elected from District 7. The chairperson may reside anywhere within Liberty County but shall have been a resident of Liberty County for at least one year prior to the date of the general election and shall remain a resident of the county during a term of office. The chairperson shall be elected by a majority of the electors voting county wide within Liberty County. The other six members of the board of commissioners shall be severally elected from Commissioner Districts 1 through 6. Candidates for district commissioner shall have been residents of their respective commissioner districts for at least one year prior to the date of the general election and must remain residents of their respective commissioner districts during a term of office. District commissioners shall be elected by a majority of the electors voting within their respective commissioner districts.
(c)
At the November 2002 general election, the chairperson and those commissioners from Districts 4, 5, and 6 shall be elected for terms of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified, and those commissioners from Districts 1, 2, and 3 shall be elected for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. All successors shall be elected for terms of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(d)
Members of the Board of Commissioners shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their respective elections and shall each serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(e)
All members of the Board of Commissioners shall be nominated and elected in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Georgia Election Code."
(1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), page 2237, § 2; 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 780), page 3557; 2000 Ga. Laws (Act No. 592), page 4126)
Sec. 3. - [New districts.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that at any time the county commissioners shall create a new militia district they shall have authority by a majority vote of their board to attach said new militia district to any one of said four road districts.
(1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), page 2237, § 3)
Sec. 4. - [Election term of office.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the first election of county commissioners under this Act shall be held on the regular election day in November 1938, and the commissioner selected on that date shall go into office on January 1, 1939, and serve for a term of four years, and their successors shall be elected regularly in the November election for a term of four years each, and that all commissioners thus elected shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
Sec. 5. - [Residence of commissioner.]
Be it enacted by the authority of aforesaid, that there shall be a commissioner from each road district, and he must be a resident of said road district which he represents, each district being thus represented on said board by a resident respectively.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 112), page 1363, § 1)
Sec. 6. - [Commissioners named.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that from and after the passage of this Act until January 1, 1939, or until their successors are elected and qualified, C. B. Jones shall be commissioner of the First Road District; R. M. Ryon shall be the commissioner for the Second Road District, and O.J. Olmstead, Jr., shall be commissioner for the Third Road District, with full authority to perform all duties of the office of Commissioner of said County of Liberty.
Sec. 7. - [Exemption from jury duty.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the members of the board of commissioners shall be exempt from all jury duties during their term of office.
Sec. 8. - [Bond.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that before any commissioner shall qualify and perform any of the duties of his office under this Act, that he shall give a good Surety bond in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) to be approved by the judge of the probate court of said county and payable to the judge of the probate court of said county for the faithful performance of any and all duties of said office; provided, that this provision of this section shall go into effect immediately upon passage of this Act.
Sec. 9. - [Vacancy.]
(a)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of chairperson of the board of commissioners when the remaining term of office is six months or more, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term at a special election. A special election to fill a vacancy in the office of chairperson shall beheld and conducted on a county-wide basis. If the remaining term of office is less than six months, the vice chairperson shall serve as chairperson for the remaining term of office, and the remaining members of the board of commissioners shall appoint a person from the county at large to serve as a member of the board of commissioners until the chairperson elected at the next following general election takes office.
(b)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of district commissioner when the remaining term of office is six months or more, the vacancy shall be filled in a special election. A special election to fill a vacancy in the office of district commissioner shall be held only in the commissioner district in which the vacancy exists. If the remaining term of office is less than six months, the remaining members of the board of commissioners shall appoint a qualified resident of the commissioner district in which the vacancy exists to serve for the unexpired term.
(c)
The election superintendent of Liberty County shall issue the call for a special election to fill a vacancy as required by this section. The call for a special election shall be issued within 30 days after the existence of a vacancy has been established. A special election to fill vacancies shall be held and conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A, known as the Georgia Election Code.
(1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 760), page 3566, § 2)
Sec. 10. - [Expenditure without express law or authority for, misdemeanor.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said commissioners shall not expend any money for any purpose without express law and authority for the same, and if they do, they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
Sec. 11. - [Costs in misdemeanor cases, when to be paid by board.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said commissioners are hereby authorized and directed to pay to the proper officers the actual costs in the case where a misdemeanor convict is sentenced to the chain-gang in said county and serves his term upon said chain-gang in said county. Provided, he is sentenced to the chain-gang of said county for a period of four months or more, and if not thus sentenced, they shall not pay said costs.
Sec. 12. - [Accounts.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall not pay out any money for any purpose except on itemized sworn account after it is examined and approved, and then it shall be filed away alphabetically, and all accounts paid at each monthly meeting shall be filed away together and indexed so any citizen can easily find said paid account, and said commissioners shall purchase proper files for the same, and that no account shall be paid at any time only at the regular monthly meeting, and said accounts shall be approved by a majority vote of the board, and the check or voucher for the same shall be signed by the chairperson and the clerk of the board.
Sec. 13. - [Prohibited acts.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that no member of said board of commissioners shall hold any subordinate position of the said board; that no member of any firm of which he may be a member or any corporation in which he may own stock, or by which he may be employed, shall buy anything from or sell anything to or perform any contract of service, either directly or indirectly of any character whatever, with said board, and if he does, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 14. - [Compensation; clerk, salaries; oath.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that members of the board of commissioners herein created shall receive as their compensation $150.00 per month for the members, except the chairperson, who (chairperson) shall receive a salary of $200.00 per month. The said commissioners shall elect a clerk of the board, whose duty it shall be to keep a record of the actions and doings of the board, at the courthouse in said county; said records to be open for inspection of any citizen of said county and at all times, if the same does not conflict with the meetings of the board, and he shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by said board, and he shall keep all the books and records in a neat, first-class, business like condition at all times. He shall receive such compensation as the board of commissioners shall fix and designate as a salary. Said clerk shall not be a member of the board of commissioners. The said commissioners shall at their first meeting elect a chairperson of said board from their own membership who shall act as such chairperson during the entire term of said board. Said commissioners before entering upon their duties as such shall take an oath before the Judge of the Probate Court for the faithful performance of their duties.
(1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 135), page 1072, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 316), page 3718, § 1)
Sec. 15. - [Purchases.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said board of commissioners shall be the purchasing agent for said county, for all things needed by the different departments of said county and especially for all supplies for convicts and feed for mules and horses owned by said county, and for all machinery used for said county, and in fact, everything purchased by said county. And said county commissioners shall secure as far as possible, competitive bids for such supplies for county officers, including the Judge and Solicitor of the City Court, but supplies for convicts and road machine crews may be purchased by man in charge of same in a case of necessity. Request for any kind of supplies must be submitted to county commissioners in duplicate and purchased by aboard as above stated.
Sec. 16. - [Jurisdiction.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall have exclusive jurisdiction and control over the foil owing matters, to wit: in directing and controlling all the property of the county according to law; in levying taxes according to law; in altering, establishing, or abolishing roads, bridges and ferries, according to law; establishing, abolishing or changing election precincts or changing election precincts or militia districts, in supervising tax-collector's and tax-receiver's books and allowing an insolvent list of said county, and they shall have the right to inspect, or have inspected any office and records of any county officers at any time, and they shall have the right to employ a competent person or firm to do said work at a price, which in the judgment of said commissioners; shall be fair and reasonable; in settling all claims against the county, examining and auditing all claims and accounts of officers having care, management, keeping, collecting or disbursement of any money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use or benefit and bring them to settlement; in controlling and managing the convicts of said county according to law; in making rules and regulations for the support of the poor of said county, and for the promotion of health and electing and appointing all minor officers of said county where election is not otherwise provided by law, such as superintendents and guards of convicts or of chain-gangs, janitors of court-house, superintendent of pauper farm, county physicians and health officer, and other guards as needed and authorized by law; in regulating peddling, and to have and to exercise all the powers before vested in the judge of the probate court of said county when sitting for county purposes, and to exercise such other powers as are granted by law, or as indispensable to their jurisdiction over all county matters and all county finances.
Sec. 17. - [Convicts.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said board shall have entire control and management and control of the convicts of said county sentenced to work on the public roads of said county, and may employ them upon public roads and bridges, or any other public work of said county. Said board of commissioners shall have the right and power to hire, work and control on the public work of said county such convicts from other counties of Georgia as may be necessary in carrying on said public work in said county. The said Commissioners shall have authority at any regular meeting to establish a chain-gang in and for Liberty County, and to pass such rules and regulations for maintaining and carrying on the work of the same that they may deem right and proper.
Sec. 18. - [Sessions.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall hold at least one session on the first Tuesday in each month at the county site in the county court-house, where the clerk of said board of commissioners shall keep a regular office. At the request of a majority of said commissioners the chairperson may at any time call an extra session, written notice of such and for what purpose shall be served on each member. The said commissioners shall have the right to adjourn from day to day until they finish their business. No less than two members of said commissioners shall pass any order or any subject matter, or at any meeting where there are not more than two members present they shall not conduct any business or pass on any question unless the vote is unanimous, and the vote in all questions shall be shown on the minutes by recorded aye and nay vote. The chairperson shall vote on all measures before the board.
Sec. 19. - [Roads.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said commissioners shall not neglect any public road in said county, nor refuse to keep up a road that has been built, and they shall not build more roads in one section of the county than in another, and the work of the convicts shall be fairly and equitably divided between the different road districts according to the needs of the roads of said districts.
Sec. 20. - [County attorney.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said commissioners shall have the authority to employ a County Attorney who is a resident of Liberty County, and they shall not pay him a salary of more than twenty-five dollars a month, and at any time in the opinion of said commissioners the interest of the county shall demand it, they shall have the right to employ additional counsel at a price that may seem fair and reasonable.
Sec. 21. - [Physician.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the said commissioners shall have the right to employ a county physician for the pauper farm, county jail and county convicts, at a price they shall deem fair and reasonable.
Sec. 22. - [Clerk's bond.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the clerk of the said board of commissioners mentioned in section 14, of this Act, shall on and after the passage of this Act give a surety bond in the sum of ($2,000) two thousand dollars, to be approved by the judge of the probate court of said county, and payable to the judge of the probate court of said county, for the faithful performance of any and all duties of said office, the property of said clerk as well as the security on his bond, shall be bound from the time of execution thereof for the payment of any and all liability arising from the breach of said bond.
Sec. 23. - [Reports of clerk.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Clerk of the Superior Court shall on the First Tuesday in each month report in writing to the county commissioners a true statement of all money that has been spent by the Judge of the Superior Court, or the Judge of the City Court, or by the clerk in paying jurors or otherwise.
Sec. 24. - [Financial statement.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that on the first Monday in February of each year said board shall make a sworn financial statement to the judge of the probate court of said county showing the amount of money received as commutation tax, amount received from Tax-Collector of Liberty County, and all monies received from any other source; they shall also show the disbursements made by said board, to whom paid and when paid; also submit a statement of unpaid county warrants, showing to whom payable and amounts of each and when payable. They shall likewise submit an itemized statement of the indebtedness of the county for which no warrant has been executed. The purpose of this section being to show the taxpayers the financial condition of the county. The Judge of the Probate Court of Liberty County shall record this report and for this service shall receive out of the county treasury the sum of five dollars ($5.00). It shall be the duty of said board to submit a similar statement to the Grand Jury at each Spring term of Liberty Superior Court.
Sec. 25. - [Powers as court.]
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that at the regular meetings of the board of commissioners they shall be clothed with the powers of a court, subject to the same rules that govern, define and control the powers of a probate court, when sitting for county purposes; that they shall have the same right to punish for contempt and to try and punish road defaulters as provided by law.
Sec. 26. - [Conflict.]
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be, and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - ZONING POWERS[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 468), page 903, which granted to the commissioners the authority to provide for, regulate and restrict in the unincorporated portions of the county zoning and building regulations. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Grant of power.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, That the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County, in addition to all other powers delegated to them are hereby empowered to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be occupied, the size of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of population, the location and use of buildings and other structures, and the use, conditions of use, or occupancy of land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, transportation, agriculture, soil and water conservation, forestry, flood control or other purposes; to provide for county planning; to provide for the regulation of subdivision of land; and to establish setback lines for buildings and structures along the streets and roads.
Sec. 2. - Districts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid That the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County are hereby given power and authority to divide the unincorporated portions of the county into districts of such number, shape and area as maybe deemed best suited to carry out the purpose of this act; and within such districts they may regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings and structures, and the use, conditions of use, or occupancy of land; and in that case may adopt an official zoning ordinance, including a map or maps, indicating the districts, but the regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts.
Sec. 3. - Purposes in view.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That such regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and design for the purposes, among others, of lessening congestion in the roads and streets; protecting the development of both urban and non-urban areas; securing safety from fire, flood, erosion, and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; promoting the health and general welfare, encouraging such distribution of population and such classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization as will tend to facilitate economic and adequate provisions for transportation, roads, airports, water supply, drainage, sanitation, education, recreation or other public requirements; conserving and developing the natural resources; fostering the State's agricultural and other industries; protecting the food supply. Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among others, to the character of the districts and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, and to the minimum and maximum amounts of land required for particular uses, and with a general view to promoting desirable living conditions and the sustained stability of neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing economy in governmental expenditures, and encouraging the most appropriate use of land in the county.
Sec. 4. - Planning Board.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid That in order to avail themselves of the powers conferred by the Act, the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County are hereby given the power and authority on petition of not less than 100 Liberty County tax payers to appoint aboard of five or seven members known as the County Planning Board.
Any individual whether in private or ex-officio capacity may be appointed to serve on such board and the majority of the members thereof shall be individuals who do not hold elective office. The terms of ex-officio members shall correspond to their tenures in office. The term of each appointed member shall be four years, except that the respective terms of three of the members first appointed shall be one, two and three years.
If the said Board of Commissioners so desire, they may, instead of, or in addition to, appointing a planning board for Liberty County form a regional planning board in conjunction with the governing authorities of another county or counties and thereupon may delegate to such regional planning board any or all of the powers and duties which under the terms of this act are conferred on the County Planning Board.
The Board of Commissioners may provide for reimbursement of the members of the planning board for actual expenses incurred and shall provide for the filling of vacancies in the membership of such board, for the removal of any members for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing.
Sec. 5. - Personnel: Assistance from State Agencies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the County Planning Board may, with the consent and approval of said Commissioners employ the services of a competent engineer or expert in County Planning and Zoning and such other employees as are necessary, but the compensation of said employees shall be fixed by said Board of Commissioners and no expense shall be created or obligation incurred by said County Planning Board without the consent and approval of said Commissioners
The State Planning Board and all other State Agencies, Departments and officials having information maps and data pertinent for county zoning and planning are hereby authorized and directed to make such available for the use of the Planning Board as well as furnish such technical assistance and advice as they may have available for the purpose.
Sec. 6. - Cooperation between counties.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said Planning Board shall have the authority to cooperate with the Planning and Zoning Boards of other counties, cities, villages, or other municipalities, either within or without such county, and with municipal and state authorities, with a view to coordinating and integrating the planning and zoning program and to appoint such committees and adopt such rules as may be thought proper to effect such cooperation.
Sec. 7. - Designation of County Planning Board as official municipal planning board.
The Council or other chief legislative body of any municipality located in whole or in part within the limits of Liberty County may designate such County Planning Board as the official planning board of said municipality and in the event of such designation and acceptance thereof by the County Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County, the County Planning Board shall have all the powers and duties provided by law for the municipal planning board in said municipality or municipalities; and in the event no legislation has been enacted for the establishing of a planning board and defining its powers in any municipality, the powers and duties outlined in the Liberty County Act shall be of force.
Sec. 8. - Preparation of zoning plan.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the County Planning Board shall make for certification to the Board of Commissioners a zoning plan, or plans, including both the full text to the zoning ordinance, or ordinances, and the maps representing the recommendations of the board for the regulation by districts or zones of the location, height, bulk and size of buildings and other structures, percentage of lot which may be occupied, size of lots, courts and other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, the location and use of buildings and structures for trade, industry, residence, recreation, public activities or other purposes and the use of land for trade, industry, recreation agriculture, forestry, soil conservation, water supply conservation or other purposes.
When the efforts of such a board shall have reached the state of the tentative plans, the board shall hold at least one public hearing on each tentative plan separately submitted, notice of which hearing shall be given by publishing notice thereof in the official gazette of the county at least two weeks before the date of the hearing. The notice shall contain the time and place of hearing, and shall specify the time and place at which the tentative texts and maps of the zoning ordinance may be examined. For the purpose of its public hearing or hearings the board shall have the power to summon witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony. In the event that after such public hearing or hearings the planning board, in the light of the development at such hearing or hearings make changes in its tentative plan no further hearing shall be required.
Sec. 9. - Method of procedure.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid That after receiving the certification of a zoning plan from the Planning Board and before the enactment of any zoning ordinance, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing thereon, of which notice once a week, for at least two weeks in advance, shall be given in the official gazette of the County. Such notice shall state the place at which the text and maps as certified by the Planning Board may be examined. No change in or departure from the text or maps, as certified by the Planning Board, shall be made unless such change or departure shall first be submitted to the Planning Board for its approval or disapproval or suggestions. The Planning Board shall have thirty days from and after such submission within which to send its report to the Board of Commissioners; provided however, that no approval, disapproval or suggestion of the Planning Board shall have more than advisory effect or shall in any wise bind the Board of Commissioners.
Sec. 10. - Amendments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, amend the number, shape, boundary or area of any district or districts, or any regulation of, or within such district or districts, or any other provisions of any zoning ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made or become effective until the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for approval, disapproval or suggestion to the Planning Board. Any proposal, approval, disapproval or suggestions of the Planning Board shall have advisory effect only and not be binding on the Board of Commissioners, and, unless such Planning Board shall have transmitted its report upon the proposed amendment within thirty days after the submission thereof to it, the Board of Commissioners shall be free to proceed to the adoption of the amendment without further awaiting the receipt of the report of the Planning Board. Before finally adopting any such amendment, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing thereon, at least two weeks' notice of the time and place of which shall be given by at least two weekly publications in the official gazette of the county.
Sec. 11. - Board of Adjustment.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County shall provide for a Board of Adjustment of three or five members and for the manner of appointment thereof.
The said Board of Commissioners shall fix the terms of the members of such board, which term shall be of sufficient length and so arranged that the term of not more than one member shall expire each year. The said Commissioners may remove any member for cause on written charges after a public hearing. Any vacancy shall be filled by the Commissioners for the unexpired term. The Board of Commissioners may appoint associate members of such board and in the event that any member be temporarily unable to act, due to absence from the County, illness, interest in a case before the board, or any other cause, his place may be taken during such temporary absence or disability by any associate member designated for the member.
The Board of Commissioners of the County may specify and provide general rules to govern the organization, procedure and jurisdiction of such Board of Adjustment, which rules shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or such general rules. The Board shall elect one of its number as chairperson and shall appoint a secretary. The Secretary may be an employee of the County. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The members of such Board shall have the power to summon witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
Appeals to the Board of adjustment may be taken by any officer, department, board or bureau of the County of Liberty and also by any person or persons having a substantial interest in any decision of an administrative officer or agency seeking to function under authority of or enforce any ordinance enacted pursuant to this Act. Such appeals shall be taken as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment and shall be evidenced by filing with the Secretary a written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and what modification of its decision is sought. The officer or agency from whose decision the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the secretary of the Board of Adjustment all documents pertinent to the decision appealed from. The filings of such appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the actions or decisions appealed from, until it shall be passed upon by the Board of Adjustment. After such decisions, proceedings in conformity herewith shall not be further stayed except as hereinafter provided.
The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time.
Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by attorney at law. The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate conditions and safeguards as may be established by the Board of Commissioners, having the following powers:
1.
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official or agency in the enforcement of this act or of any ordinance or regulation adopted pursuant thereto.
2.
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from the terms of such ordinance or regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest, where, owing to special conditions fully demonstrated on the basis of the facts presented, literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance or regulation will result in great practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship, and so that the spirit of the ordinance or regulation shall be observed and substantial justice done.
In exercising the above mentioned powers such Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this Act, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may take such order, requirement, decision and determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer or agency from whom the appeal is taken.
A majority of the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum and a majority vote of the members hearing the appeal shall be sufficient to determine the appeal.
Any person or persons who may have a substantial interest in any decision of the Board of Adjustment, or any officer, board or bureau of the said County, may appeal from any decision of the said Board of Adjustment to the Superior Court in and for said County by filing with the Clerk of the said Court a petition in writing setting forth plainly, fully and distinctly wherein such decision is contrary to law. Such appeal will be filed within thirty days after the decision of the Board of Adjustment is rendered.
Upon the filing of such an appeal the Clerk of the Superior Court shall give immediate notice thereof to the Secretary of the Board of Adjustment, and within thirty days from the time of such notice the Board of Adjustment shall cause to be filed with the said Clerk a duly certified copy of the proceedings had before the said Board of Adjustment, including a transcript of the evidence heard before it, if any, and the decision of the said Board.
Thereafter at the next term of the Superior Court, or in vacation upon ten days' notice to the parties, the judge of the Superior Court of said County shall proceed to hear and pass upon the said appeal.
The findings of fact by the said Board of Adjustment shall be final and conclusive on the hearing of such appeal. In determining the questions presented by the Appeal the court shall determine only whether the decision of the Board of Adjustment is correct as a matter of law.
Any party at interest who is aggrieved by the judgment rendered by the Superior Court upon such appeal may have the same reviewed by bill of exception in the same manner as now provided by law for fast bills of exceptions to other judgments, orders and decrees of the Superior Courts.
The filing of an appeal in the Superior Court from any decision of the said Board of Adjustment shall not ipso facto act as a supersedeas but the judge of the Superior Court may in his discretion grant a supersedeas upon such terms and conditions as may seem reasonable and proper.
In the event that the decision of the Board of Adjustment should be reversed by the Superior Court the said Board of Adjustment shall be cast with the costs and the same shall be paid by the County of Liberty.
Sec. 12. - Joint Board of Adjustment.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid That in lieu of a separate Board of Adjustment for Liberty County, it may join with one or more counties having similar zoning and planning authority in the establishment of a joint Board of Adjustment of five members having all of the jurisdiction, powers and incidence of the Boards of Adjustment for the several respective counties. Such joint Board of Adjustment may hold its hearings at such place or places in any of the counties within its jurisdiction as it may determine but the jurisdiction for appeal from such joint Board of Adjustment shall lie in the Superior Court of the County in which the particular question arose. The several counties shall have the authority to defray the proper expense of such joint Board of Adjustment and apportion such expense among the participating counties.
The council or other chief legislative body of any municipality located in whole or in part within the limits of Liberty County that has designated the County Planning Board as the official municipal planning board, may designate the County Board of Adjustment as the official municipal Board of Adjustment of said municipality, and in the event of such designation and acceptance thereof by the County Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County, the County Board of Adjustment shall have all of the powers and duties as provided by law for the municipal board of adjustment; and in the event there is no legislation for a municipal board of adjustment the power and authority granted the County Board of Adjustment shall obtain.
Sec. 13. - Non-conforming uses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the lawful use of a building or structure, or the lawful use of any land, as existing and lawful at the time of the enactment of a zoning ordinance, or in the case of an amendment of an ordinance, then at the time of such amendment, may except as hereinafter provided, be continued although such does not conform with the provision of such ordinance or amendment, and such use may be extended throughout the same building provided no structural alteration of such building is proposed or made for the purpose of such extension. The Board of Commissioners may provide in any zoning ordinance for the restoration, reconstruction, extension or substitution of non-conforming uses upon such terms and conditions may be set forth in the zoning ordinance. The Board of Commissioners may in any zoning ordinance provide for the termination of non-conforming uses, either by specifying the period or periods in which non-conforming uses shall be required to cease, or by providing a formula or formulae whereby the compulsory termination of nonconforming uses may be so fixed as to allow for the recovery or amortization of the investment in the non-conformance.
Sec. 14. - Planning.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the said Planning Board shall study the resources, possibilities and needs of the county and shall prepare a master plan and maps for the systematic future development of the said county and from time to time in the manner hereinbefore provided make such recommendations to the Board of Commissioners as may be deemed advisable.
Sec. 15. - Subdivision control.
Be it further enacted by the authorities aforesaid, That before any street or road is opened or extended or before any new subdivision for residence, business or industrial use is made, the person or persons proposing to open or extend such streets or roads or such new subdivision, shall submit a detailed plan of same, with other necessary data to the Planning Board.
The Planning Board shall adopt regulations governing the subdivision of land and the preparation of maps and plats and the filing for record of same for all lands within its jurisdiction. The adoption of such regulations shall follow the method of procedure covered in Section 9. It shall be the duty of such Planning Board to carefully examine such plans and specifications with regard to their nature and purpose, the width, character and location of such streets, alleys and roads in such subdivisions and the size, material, location, grades and manner of laying of water mains and sewer lines, and then transmit such applications, with all plans and data, to the Commissioners of Roads and Revenue with its recommendations thereon in writing. The jurisdiction of such Planning Board and the said Board of Commissioners, shall for the purpose of this Act, extend to and include all of the land within the jurisdiction generally of said Commissioners Before any such streets, alleys and roads or subdivisions shall be laid out as aforesaid, they shall be required to have the approval of the said Board of Commissioners in accordance herewith.
From and after the adoption of rules and regulations governing the subdivision of lands and the preparation of maps and plats in Liberty County, no map or plat shall be filed for record by the County Recorder or other officer designated to accomplish this duty, unless said map or plat complies with all the provisions of said rules and regulations and bears the proper approval of the County Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners.
The approval of the Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners of such plan shall be deemed an acceptance of the dedication shown thereon, but shall not impose any duty on the county concerning maintenance or improvement.
Sec. 16. - Violations: Enforcement and remedies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That in case any building or structure is erected constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired, converted, or maintained, or any structure or land is used in violation of this act, or of any ordinance or other regulation duly made under the authority conferred hereby, or in the event of the violation by any person or persons of any of the provisions of this act, such violation in any respect shall be held to be a misdemeanor under the laws of the State, and the offender upon conviction shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, and any court of the said county having jurisdiction of misdemeanor cases shall have jurisdiction to try such offenders and upon conviction to so punish them; provided further that each day that any structure or land is used in violation of this Act shall constitute a separate offense. In case any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, maintained or used, or any land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this Act or of any regulation or provision of any ordinance, or amendment thereof, enacted or adopted by the Board of Commissioners under the authority granted by this Act, such Commissioners, the County attorney or any owner of real estate within the district in which such buildings, structure or land is situated, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, mandamus, abatement or any appropriate action or actions, proceeding or proceedings to prevent, enjoin abate or remove such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or use.
Sec. 17. - Punishment of contempt.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That in case of Contempt of any party, witness or other person before either the Planning Board or the Board of Adjustment, such Board may certify such fact to the Superior Court of the County wherein such contempt occurs and the judge of said Court, either in term time or vacation, after hearing, may impose such penalty as the facts authorize or require, and shall have the same powers and authority over parties and witnesses as are given by Section 10-103 of the Code [Georgia Code 1933] to auditors appointed by the Superior Court.
Sec. 18. - Finances.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the Board of Commissioners is empowered to appropriate out of the general county funds, such monies, otherwise unappropriated, as they may deem fit to finance the work of the County Planning Board and the Board of Adjustment and to enforce the zoning regulations and restrictions which are adopted; and to accept grants of money, for those purposes, from either private or public sources, State or Federal.
Sec. 19. - Legality.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid That if any portions or provisions of this Act may be found unconstitutional or contrary to any general laws of the State of Georgia, such validity shall not affect any other portion or provisions of this Act.
Sec. 20. - Conflict with other laws.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE III. - JOINT LIBERTY COUNTY, CITY OF GUM BRANCH, CITY OF MIDWAY, CITY OF RICEBORO, AND CITY OF WALTHOURVILLE FIRE PROTECTION FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AUTHORITY[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1077), page 4826, which established a joint fire protection authority for Liberty County, the City of Gum Branch, the City of Midway, the City of Riceboro, and the City of Walthourville. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Defined.]
As used in this Act, the term "project" means a capital outlay project or projects as defined and authorized under subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 48-8-111 of the O.C.G.A. consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment.
Sec. 2. - [Created.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Joint Liberty County, City of Gum Branch, City of Midway, City of Riceboro, and City of Walthourville Fire Protection Facilities and Equipment Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and, by that name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of 11 members, who shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
The governing authority of Liberty County shall appoint seven members;
(2)
The governing authority of the City of Gum Branch shall appoint one member;
(3)
The governing authority of the City of Midway shall appoint one member;
(4)
The governing authority of the City of Riceboro shall appoint one member; and
(5)
The governing authority of the City of Walthourville shall appoint one member.
(c)
No person shall be eligible to serve as a member of the authority unless that person:
(1)
Is a resident of Liberty County at the time of appointment;
(2)
Continues to reside within Liberty County during that person's term of office; and
(3)
Is a registered and qualified elector of Liberty County.
(d)
Members of the authority shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the governing authority authorized to make such appointment.
(e)
The initial members of the authority shall be appointed as soon as practicable after July 1, 1994, and serve for a term of office of one year and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(f)
Successors to initial members of the authority whose terms of office expire in 1995 and all future successors to members of the authority whose terms of office are to expire shall be appointed immediately preceding the expiration of such terms and shall serve for terms of office of one year each and until the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
(g)
There shall be no limit to the number of terms of office to which a person may be appointed to serve as a member of the authority.
(h)
In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason, such vacancy shall be filled by the applicable appointing authority. Any person appointed to fill such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office and until the appointment and qualification of such person's successor.
(i)
The members of the authority shall receive no salary for their services.
(j)
The authority shall have full power to organize, adopt rules for its government, and generally to direct the affairs of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the power of the authority to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority.
(k)
The chairperson of the authority shall be a member elected annually by the membership of the authority. Such person shall serve as chairperson during that person's term of office.
(l)
A majority of the members in office shall constitute a quorum. The authority shall have perpetual existence; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Act shall preclude the General Assembly of Georgia from amending this Act.
Sec. 3. - [Books; audit.]
The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, undertakings, income, receipts of every nature, and expenditures of every kind. The financial books and records of the authority shall be audited annually by the same auditor employed to audit the books and records of the Liberty County government. Said audit shall be paid for by the authority, and copies shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County. Said audit shall be a public record.
Sec. 4. - [Purpose; powers.]
(a)
The purpose of the authority shall be for the acquiring, constructing, equipping, or any combination thereof, in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 48-8-111 of the O.C.G.A., of a capital outlay project or projects consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment for the use and benefit of the citizens of Liberty County, the City of Gum Branch, the City of Midway, the City of Riceboro, and the City of Walthourville. The proceeds collected pursuant to the levy of the special county 1 percent sales and use tax pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A. shall only be expended for such capital outlay project purposes and shall not be expended for maintenance and operation purposes. Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the further purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating adequate fire protection services, facilities, and equipment; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Liberty County and its environs, including municipalities inside the county; extending and improving such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, to any persons, firms, or corporations, whether public or private, if in the sole judgment of the authority such use, lease, or sale supports the general purposes of the authority; and, doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such type of undertakings.
(b)
The authority shall have the power to:
(1)
Adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
Make contracts and execute all instruments necessary or convenient in connection with its purposes; and
(3)
Adopt, alter, or repeal its own bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
Sec. 5. - [Limitations.]
The authority shall not have the power of eminent domain. The authority shall not have the power to issue revenue bonds or certificates of participation. The authority shall not have the power to incur any indebtedness in or for the purpose of the acquisition of real or personal property.
Sec. 6. - [Actions.]
Any action brought against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Liberty County and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such action.
Sec. 7. - [Act supplemental.]
The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 8. - [Liberal construction.]
This Act, being for the welfare of Liberty County and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
Sec. 9. - [Effective.]
This Act shall become effective on July 1, 1994.
Sec. 10. - [Repealer.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
