Article 8.7 - Air Pollution Control

Section 8.7.1 - Authority for this Article.
In agreement with the federal "Air Quality Act of 1967" (P.L. 90-148) and with the Georgia Air Quality Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1) and by the authority vested in the city council by law, this article is hereby established.
Section 8.7.2 - Purpose of this Article.
The purpose of this article is to provide minimum standards or regulations in conjunction with state and federal law to safeguard life, health, property and the public welfare of the citizens of the city and others from the effects of air pollution and air contamination.
State Law reference— The Georgia Air Quality Act (O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1 et seq.) establishes procedures to protect and improve air quality and to control emissions.
Section 8.7.3 - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2021-06-12 , § 1, adopted June 14, 2021, repealed former § 8.7.3 which pertained to open burning and derived from Ord. 2000-01-01, adopted Jan. 3, 2000.
Section 8.7.4 - Prohibited Acts.
No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, from any source whatsoever such quantities of air contaminants or other materials which cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to the public, or which endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of the public, or which cause, or have a natural tendency to cause, injury or damage to humans or property.
( 2021-06-12 , Amended, 06/14/2021)
Section 8.7.5 - Materials Handling; Construction and Demolition.
(a)
Any material which may create air pollution as the result of dispersal during transport shall be so treated prior to transport or so enclosed during transport, as to effectively prevent air pollution during transport.
(b)
Effective measures shall be employed to prevent air pollution resulting from the dispersal of materials from premises, from stockpiles or from accumulations incidental to manufacture, handling or storage.
(c)
Effective measures shall be applied to prevent air pollution resulting from the demolition of buildings or equipment, the clearing of land, the preparation of sites for construction or from the construction of buildings or the installation of equipment.
Section 8.7.6 - Notice of Violation.
Should a code enforcement officer, building inspector or other authorized person find the violation of any provision of this regulation to exist, he shall give notice of the violation in writing to the person responsible, specifying the nature of the violation and a reasonable time for correcting it. Delivery of the notice may be effected by mail or by personal delivery.
Section 8.7.7 - Violations.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of, or who fails to perform any duty imposed by, this article shall be punished as prescribed in section 1.1.3 and, in addition thereto, may be enjoined from continuing the violation. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
