Article 8.8 - Nuisances

Section 8.8.1 - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to exercise the police power in relation to public nuisances and abatement of such nuisances, to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to promote the economic development of the city. It is also the purpose of this chapter to prevent and prohibit those conditions which reduce the value of private property, interfere with enjoyment of public and private property, create and constitute fire and other safety and health hazards, and generally create a menace to the health and welfare of the public and contribute to the degradation of the character of neighborhoods and depreciation of property values. It is necessary for the public health, safety and welfare to regulate, prevent and prohibit conditions which may constitute disorderly, disturbing, unsafe, unsanitary, fly-producing, rat-harboring and/or disease-causing places, conditions or objects. It is also necessary for the public social and economic welfare to regulate, prevent and prohibit conditions that degrade the city's scenic attractiveness and livability and its economic development.
State Law reference— Municipal courts and magistrate courts have jurisdiction to order the abatement of nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.
Section 8.8.2 - Definitions.
The words and phrases used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, shall have the following meanings:
Abate means to repair, replace, remove, destroy or otherwise remedy the condition in question by such means and in such a manner and to such an extent as the enforcement officer, in his/her judgment, determines is necessary in the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
Blighted property means any property on which there exists any one (1) or more of the following conditions or activities:
(1)
A building or structure that is not occupied, inhabited, used, or secured. For purposes of this chapter, a building or structure is unsecured when it is unlocked or the public can gain entry without the consent of the owner.
(2)
Any partially constructed, reconstructed or demolished building or structure upon which work is abandoned. Work is deemed abandoned when there is no valid and current building or demolition permit or when there has not been any substantial work on the project for six (6) months.
(3)
Property which is in an unsecured state so as to potentially constitute an attraction to children, a harbor for vagrants, criminals, or other unauthorized persons, or so as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful act.
(4)
Any building or other structure which by reason of rot, weakened joints, walls, floors, underpinning, roof, ceilings, or insecure foundation, or other cause has become dilapidated or deteriorated.
(5)
Any building or other structure with exterior walls and/or roof coverings that have become so deteriorated as to not provide adequate weather protection and be likely to, or have resulted in, termite infestation or dryrot.
(6)
Buildings or structures including, but not limited to, walls, windows, fences, signs, retaining walls, driveways, or walkways which are obsolete, broken, deteriorated, or substantially defaced to the extent that the disrepair visually impacts on neighboring property or presents a risk to public safety. For purposes of this chapter "defaced" includes, but is not limited to, writings, inscriptions, figures, scratches, or other markings commonly referred to as "graffiti" and peeling, flaking, blistering, or otherwise deteriorated paint.
(7)
Property which is not kept clean and sanitary and free from all accumulations of offensive matter or odor including, but not limited to, dead or decayed trees, tree limbs, weeds or other vegetation that is not maintained in a manner consistent with the neighborhood and does not exceed a maximum of ten (10) inches, or grass in excess of ten (10) inches, dead organic matter, rubbish, junk, garbage, animal intestinal waste and urine, and toxic or otherwise hazardous liquids and substances.
(8)
Property which constitutes a fire hazard or a condition considered dangerous to the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(9)
Property which is likely to or does harbor rats or other vermin, feral pets, or other non-domesticated animal nuisances.
(10)
Property which substantially detracts from the aesthetic and economic values of neighboring properties including, but not limited to, personal property and wares and foodstuffs, premises garbage and refuse receptacles, and commercial and industrial business activities which are inadequately buffered from any street, sidewalk, or other publicly trafficked area or such buffering which is inadequately maintained.
(11)
Landscaping which is inadequately maintained or which is not installed as required by city codes of any permit issued in accordance with such codes provided landscaping may include approved areas such as undisturbed buffers, natural islands and/or stream corridors that are left in a natural state.
(12)
Matter including, but not limited to, smoke, odors, dust, dirt, debris, fumes, and sprays which is permitted to be transported by wind or otherwise upon any street, course, alley, sidewalk, yard, park, or other public or private property and which is determined to be a violation of federal, state, regional, or local air quality regulations.
(13)
Property including, but not limited to, building facade, window, doorway, driveway, walkway, fence, wall, landscaped planter or area, sidewalk, curb and gutter, and edge of street pavement on which dirt, litter, vegetation, garbage, refuse, debris, flyers, or circulars have accumulated.
(14)
Property on which a swimming pool, pond, stream, or other body of water which is abandoned, unattended, unfiltered, or not otherwise maintained, resulting in the water becoming polluted. "Polluted water" is defined for the purpose of this chapter, as water which contains bacterial growth, remains of garbage, refuse, debris, papers and any other foreign matter or material which constitutes an unhealthy or unsafe condition.
(15)
Parking lots, driveways, paths, and other areas used or intended to be used for commercial and industrial business activities including, but not limited to, selling, manufacturing, processing, packaging, fabricating, treating, dismantling, processing, transferring, handling, transporting, storing, compounding, or assembling which are inadequately maintained and pose a risk of harm to public health or safety including, but not limited to, unpaved surfaces which generate fugitive dust and paved surfaces with cracks, potholes, or other breaks.
(16)
Property which is not securely fenced or adequately lighted to prevent illegal access and activity related to the dumping of garbage, waste, debris and litter.
(17)
Property having a topography, geology, or configuration which, as a result of grading operations, erosion control, sedimentation control work, or other improvements to said property, causes erosion, subsidence, unstable soil conditions, or surface or subsurface drainage problems as to harm or pose a risk of harm to adjacent properties,
(18)
Property whereon any condition or object obscures the visibility of public street intersections to the public so as to constitute a hazard, including but not limited to, landscaping, fencing, signs, posts, or equipment.
(19)
Conditions which due to their accessibility to the public pose a hazard including, but not limited to, unused and broken equipment, abandoned wells, shafts, or basements, hazardous or unprotected pools, ponds, or excavations, structurally unsound fences or structures, machinery which is inadequately secured or protected, lumber, trash, fences or debris that may pose a hazard to the public, storage of chemicals, gas, oil, or toxic or flammable liquids.
Junk means and includes the storage of all old appliances, equipment or parts thereof, all old iron or other scrap metal, all inoperable vehicles or parts thereof, including tires, all vehicle hulks, cardboard, all lumber, old wood and mattresses, which items are not being used for their intended purpose, and does not include orderly stacked firewood.
Litter means and includes all waste material, including, but not limited to, disposable packages or containers thrown or deposited on public or private property, including the depositing on public property or cars of handbills, but not including the waste of primary process of mining, logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
Premises means any building, lot, parcel, real estate, land or portion of land whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Refuse means vegetable offal, animal offal, discarded food, cans, bottles, waste paper, and all other waste substances from private and public establishments and from residences, but shall not include small amounts of weeds, twigs, grass or other material resulting from the normal tending of lawns and gardens.
Responsible person means any agent, lessee, owner or other person occupying or having charge or control of any premises.
Rubbish means and includes combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, and other combustible material; paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, hay, straw, tin cans, metal, mineral matter, glass, crockery, and dust. The term shall also include animal feed and the products of and residue from animal quarters.
Vegetable growth and horticultural growth means and includes but are not limited to trees, plants, shrubs, bushes, flowers, garden vegetables, weeds and grasses and further includes all growth of every kind and character, whether domestic or wild, causing, the obstruction or interference or detriment prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2008-08-09, § 1, 08/04/2008; 2006-09-19, Amended, 09/11/2006)
Section 8.8.3 - Types of Nuisances.
modified
Each of the following places, conditions or things is declared to constitute a public nuisance, and whenever the code enforcement officer determines that any of these conditions exist upon any premises, the officer may require or provide for the abatement thereof pursuant to this article:
(a)
The growing, maintaining, permitting or allowing of any weed, undergrowth, vegetable or horticultural growth which either:
(1)
Overhangs, encroaches upon, obstructs or in any manner interferes with the full and free use by the public of any street, sidewalk or sidewalk area upon which such property so owned or occupied abuts;
(2)
Has grown and died upon any premises owned, occupied or in control of the responsible person or persons and which constitutes the detriment to the public health, safety or welfare, including, but not limited to, a fire hazard; or
(3)
Is so overgrown upon any premises owned, occupied, or in control of the responsible person or persons, as to cause the degradation of the character of the neighborhood as determined by code enforcement. This provision shall not apply to natural areas or landscape areas that are to be retained in a natural state and designated as such on building plans or approved site plans or to natural areas and pastures which have not been previously manicured or developed and are to be retained in a natural state. Natural areas, which are areas growing without human care or cultivated may typically include areas within designated setbacks, undisturbed buffers, stream corridors, landscape islands or corridors within submitted building plans or any area as determined and approved by the city landscape architect. For purposes of this section, pastures shall be a parcel of land of one acre or more in size where plants or grasses are grown in a natural state so as not to constitute a nuisance.
(b)
(1)
The presence of debris or other material on sidewalks or the public right-of-way which impedes safe passage or otherwise creates a hazardous condition;
(2)
The filling or blocking of a drainage easement;
(c)
The existence of any junk, litter or refuse within the city when written complaint from two (2) or more city residents who are impacted by the present or potential effect of the condition on them or their property, has been received by the city unless such materials are kept or stored in an orderly and sightly manner and so as not to create a fire, safety, health or sanitary hazard;
(d)
The depositing, leaving or throwing away of any junk, litter or refuse within the city for an unreasonable length of time beyond what is necessary for proper disposal, except at the city landfill or in covered containers or receptacles acceptable to the enforcement officer of the city;
(e)
The causing or permitting to be discharged, placed or thrown, or the throwing into, or upon any premises or any public street or alley of any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or substance, or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive or putrid;
(f)
The erection, continuance or use of any building, room, property or other place in the city for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacturer which results in offensive odors or other annoyances being released, and which annoys, injures or is offensive or detrimental to the health of the individuals there employed or residing, or to the public;
(g)
The burning of refuse or other material in such a manner as to cause or permit the smoke, ashes, soot or gases arising from such burning to become discomforting or annoying, or to injure or endanger the health of any person or neighborhood;
(h)
The maintenance or use of any building, house, room or other structure or vehicle in violation of this section 13.1.15 of this code, and/or for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or prostitution;
(i)
Any pit, basin, hole, well or other excavation which is unguarded and dangerous to life, or has been abandoned, or is no longer used for the purpose for which it was constructed, or is maintained contrary to law;
(j)
All obstructions to streets, rights-of-way or other public ways in the city, and all excavations in or under the same, which are by ordinance prohibited, or which may be made without lawful permission, or which, having been made by lawful permission, are kept and maintained after the purpose thereof has been accomplished, or for an unreasonable length of time;
(k)
All premises, buildings and vehicles whereon or wherein intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bargained, exchanged, given away, furnished, disposed of, consumed or permitted to be consumed, in violation of laws of the state and in ordinances of the city;
(l)
All vacant, unused or unoccupied buildings and structures within the city, which are allowed to become or remain open to entrance by unauthorized persons or the general public, because of broken, missing or open doors, windows or other openings, so that the same may be used by vagrants or other persons in a manner detrimental to the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the city;
(m)
All building, dwellings or property on which one (1) or more of the conditions listed in subsection 8.8.2(b) exist;
(n)
Any refrigerator, ice box or deep freeze locker having a capacity of one and one-half (1½) cubic feet or more or any other container manufactured, custom-made or homemade designed for storage which is discarded, abandoned or left in any place accessible to children and which has not had the door latching mechanism removed to prevent the latching or locking of the door;
(o)
Any sign, poster or other advertising matter of any nature placed upon a telephone, utility or other poles, trees, sidewalks, streets, signs, traffic signs or other traffic control devices or other structures or places within streets, alleys or other public places or rights-of-way;
(p)
All buildings or parts thereof, vehicles, or other structures, wherein any gambling may be found, and any gambling device may be found, except as licensed and within the scope of the requirement of the license required under state law and this municipal code;
(q)
The depositing or allowing of irrigation or other water to run by any street, alley or other public place, in such manner as to cause settling or damage to the street, alley or other public place, or to cause annoyance, damage or hazard to any user of the street, alley or other public place;
(r)
Animals which satisfy the conditions in section 8.1.13;
(s)
Noise: creating unnecessary noise.
Excessive and disturbing sound is a serious hazard to the public health and welfare, safety, and the quality of life. A substantial body of science and technology exists by which excessive and disturbing sound may be substantially abated. People have a right to and should be ensured an environment free from excessive and disturbing sound that may jeopardize their health, safety, or welfare or degrade the quality of life.
In order to ensure attractive residential and commercial areas, it is necessary that an audibly satisfying environment be maintained. The City of Roswell is more likely to attract permanent residents and commercial enterprises if it controls and maintains appropriate noise quality and the residents will ultimately gain financial improvements and protection in their quality of life as a result of these regulations.
(1)
Definitions. All terminology used in this article, not defined below, shall be in conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body. The following words and terms, when used in this Article, shall have the following meanings:
A-weighting is the electronic filtering in sound level meters that models human hearing frequency sensitivity.
Background sound level is the total sound pressure level in the area of interest excluding the noise source of interest.
Boom Box means any self-contained, portable, hand-held music or sound amplification or reproduction equipment capable of emitting sound.
Boom Car means any vehicle with loudspeakers, amplifiers, radio receiving sets, musical instruments, phonographs or other equipment capable of producing, reproducing or emitting noise which is cast upon public property or private property.
C-weighing sound level is the sound pressure level in sound level meters using the C-weighting network as specified in ANSI or its successor body documents for sound level meters. This level is postscripted dB(C) or dBC and captures a lower frequency sound.
Commercial or business property category is all property which is used primarily for the sale of merchandise or goods, or for the performances of service, or for office or clerical work.
Construction is any site preparation, assembly, erection, repair, alteration or similar action, or demolition of buildings or structures.
Decibel (dB) is the unit of measurement for sound pressure level at a specified location.
dBA is the A-weighted unit of sound pressure level.
dBC is the C-weighted unit of sound pressure level.
Emergency is any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
Emergency work is any work or action performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency.
Impulsive sound is a sound having duration of less than one second with an abrupt onset and rapid decay.
Industrial or manufacturing property category is any property which is used primarily for manufacturing or processing.
Institutional property category is any property which is used primarily for public purposes such as city hall or a city park.
Legal holidays recognized by Roswell include New Years Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day.
Muffler is a sound-dissipative device or system for attenuating the sound of escaping gases of an internal combustion engine where such a device is part of the normal configuration of the equipment.
Multi-family dwelling is any multifamily structure, multifamily building, or other facility promised and/or leased to a residential tenant or tenants for use as a home, residence, or sleeping unit. This definition includes, but not limited to, multifamily dwellings, multifamily apartment units, boarding houses, rooming houses, group homes and flats.
Noise is any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or causes or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans or violates this Ordinance.
Noise disturbance is any sound that (a) endangers the safety or health of any person, (b) disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, or (c) endangers personal or real property or violates this Ordinance.
Noise nuisance is the making, continuing or causing to be made or continued acts which are done or accomplished or carried on in such a manner, or with such volume, intensity, or with continued duration so as to annoy, to distress, or to disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person of reasonable nervous sensibilities within the vicinity or hearing thereof, or so as to endanger or injure the safety or health of humans or animals, or so as to interfere with the physical well being of humans or animals, or so as to endanger or injure personal or real property except in the case of alerting persons to an emergency; or the operation of emergency vehicles; or motor vehicles while moving on a public right-of-way, public waterway, airport runway, or railway; or sounds produced by any governmental body in the performance of a governmental function; or sounds generated at a scheduled and permitted function, parade or outdoor celebration, or any violation of this Ordinance.
Noise sensitive facility means any facility whose operations may be detrimentally impacted by excessive sound levels. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, schools, hospitals, and places of worship.
Octave band is all the components in a sound spectrum whose frequencies are between two sine wave components separated by an octave.
Public space property category is any real property or structures thereon that is owned, leased, or controlled by a governmental entity.
Real property line is the line, including its vertical extension that separates one parcel of real property from another.
Receiving property is the area from which the measurement of sound pressure levels is being taken, provided said area is not within the property lines of the sound projecting property or within the confines of the sound projecting unit in properties with common ownership such as condominiums and/or apartments.
Residential property category is all property on which people legally live.
Sound level meter (SLM) is an instrument used to measure sound pressure levels conforming to Type 1 or Type 2 standards as specified in ANSI Standard S 1.4-1983 or the latest version thereof.
Sound pressure level (SPL) is 20 multiplied by the logarithm, to the base ten, of the A-weighted measured sound pressure divided by the sound pressure associated with the threshold of human hearing, in units of decibels.
Weekday is any day, Monday through Friday that is not a legal holiday.
(2)
Sound level limitations.
a.
No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit a domestic animal or the operation of any sound source in such a manner as to create a sound level that exceeds the sound level limits set forth in Table 1 when measured at or within the real property line of the receiving property. Such a sound source would constitute a noise disturbance.
TABLE 1 Sound Level Limits by Receiving Property
EXPAND
Receiving Property Category Time Sound Level Limit
(dBA) Sound Level Limit
(dBC)
Residential, public space, institutional, or noise sensitive facility 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 70
60 70
60
Office, Commercial or business 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 70
65 70
65
Industrial or manufacturing At all times 70 70
  b.
If the noise is an impulsive sound, the fast response setting shall be used and the daytime (7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.) limits of Table 1 shall be increased by ten (10) dBA.
(3)
Exemptions.
a.
Noise generated from municipally sponsored or approved celebrations or events shall be exempt from these provisions.
b.
The following are exempt from the sound level limits:
1.
Sound by public safety vehicles, emergency signaling devices, or authorized public safety personnel for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency;
2.
Noise from an exterior burglar alarm of any building, provided such burglar alarm shall terminate its operation within five (5) minutes of its activation if the sound is not intermittent or ten (10) minutes if intermittent;
3.
Noise from any automobile alarm, provided such alarm shall terminate its operation within five (5) continuous minutes of its activation if the sound is not intermittent or ten (10) continuous minutes if the sound is intermittent;
4.
The generation of sound in situations within the jurisdiction of the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration;
5.
Noise resulting from any practice or performance sponsored by or associated with the educational process administered by a recognized institution of learning, including, but not limited to band, choir, and orchestral performances;
6.
Carillons, chimes or unamplified bells while being used in conjunction with religious services between the hours of 7:00 a.m.—10:00 p.m.;
7.
Emergency work approved by the Chief Building Inspector of the City;
8.
Surface carriers engaged in commerce by railroad;
9.
Events with amplified or un-amplified sound that are operating within the parameters set forth in an approved special events permit as defined in Article 14.3 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Roswell, Georgia;
10.
Organized band and/or sports league activity sponsored by a school or the City of Roswell that is otherwise in compliance with the Code of Ordinances of the City of Roswell, Georgia.
11.
Noise that results from landscaping and lawn maintenance between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
12.
Noise that results from construction both private and commercial between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(4)
Restricted Uses and Activities. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) and the exceptions above, the following standards shall apply to the activities or sources of sound set forth below:
a.
Non-commercial or non-industrial power tools used for landscaping and yard maintenance shall not be operated between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., unless such activities can meet the applicable limits set forth in subsection (2). At all other times, the limits set forth in subsection (2) do not apply to non-commercial or non-industrial power tools and landscaping and yard maintenance equipment, provided that all motorized equipment is operated with a functioning muffler.
b.
Commercial or industrial power tools used for landscaping and yard maintenance shall be operated with a muffler. All motorized equipment used in these activities shall not be operated on a residential property or within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a residential property line, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on weekends, unless:
1.
Such activities are deemed emergency work, or
2.
Such activities meet the limits set forth in subsection (2).
At all other times, the limits set forth in subsection (2) do not apply to commercial or industrial power tools and landscaping and yard maintenance equipment.
c.
Owners and the agents of owners of domesticated animals shall not permit any vocalizations (including barking, baying, howling, crying, or making any other noise) for more than ten (10) continuous minutes without interruption or more than thirty (30) minutes if intermittent. Each occurrence will result in a separate offense.
d.
Personal or commercial vehicular music amplification or reproduction equipment, including, but not limited to boom cars, shall not be operated in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) feet in any direction from the equipment between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. such equipment shall not be operated in such a manner that it is plainly audible at a distance of twenty-five (25) feet in any direction.
e.
Boom boxes, or any similar device, shall not be operated in a public place or public right-of-way in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) feet in any direction from the operator between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., such equipment shall not be operated in such a manner that it is plainly audible at a distance of 25 feet in any direction.
f.
No amplified sound or outdoor performances (with or without amplified sound) shall be permitted after 10:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday or after 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday. For purposes of this section "outdoor performance" shall include activities conducted indoors or under a roof but open to the outside by means of open windows, doors, screens or other openings but excluding the normal opening and closing of doors for entry and exit.
(5)
Code Enforcement Officers.
a.
Where the provisions of this ordinance require the measurement of sound with the use of a sound level meter, Code Enforcement Officers or Police Officers of the City shall make such measurement.
b.
Upon occurrence of a violation of this Article, Officers or police officers having jurisdiction in the area where the violation takes place, may issue a citation/summons for the violation returnable to the Municipal Court of Roswell. Penalties for violations of this Article will be governed by subsection (8).
(6)
Procedures for the Determination of Sound Levels.
a.
Insofar as practicable, sound will be measured while the source under investigation is operating at normal, routine conditions and, as necessary, at other conditions, including but not limited to, design, maximum and fluctuating rate. All noise measurements shall be made at or within the property line of the receiving property, unless otherwise directed in this ordinance or when directly observed by an officer. When instrumentation cannot be placed at or within the property line, the measurement shall be made as close thereto as is reasonable. For the purposes of this ordinance, noise measurements are measured on the A- weighted sound level or the C- weighted sound level as applicable, of a sound level meter of standard design and quality having characteristics established by ANSI.
b.
A field check of meter calibration and batteries must be conducted before and after every set of measurements, and at least every hour as necessary.
c.
Calculation of source sound levels shall conform with accepted practice established by ANSI.
(7)
Requests for Temporary Relief or Stay.
a.
Any person requesting temporary relief or a stay from the enforcement of this ordinance shall apply to the Zoning Administrator or designee for a special administrative permit for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days. The Zoning Administrator or designee has discretion to consider and grant or deny the special administrative permit (with such conditions as may be warranted), if strict enforcement of this ordinance will result in exceptional and undue hardship to the applicant.
b.
Applications for special administrative permits shall be on a form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator or designee which shall, among other matters, address the nature of the noise, attenuation measures, and the hardships to the applicant and others if the permit is not granted.
c.
A special administrative permit may be revoked and the issuance of future permits withheld, if there is a:
1.
Violation of any conditions of the permit;
2.
Material misrepresentation of fact in the permit application; or,
3.
Material change in any of the circumstances relied upon by the zoning administrator or designee in granting the permit.
d.
No special administrative permit shall be granted for amplified sound.
e.
No special administrative permit shall be authorized to delete, modify, or change in any manner any requirement imposed as a condition of zoning or as a condition of a special or conditional land use permit imposed by the city council.
f.
Appeals of any special administrative permit decision made by the zoning administrator or designee shall be to the city council.
(8)
Enforcement Procedures.
a.
The City may prosecute noise related violations by issuance of a city ordinance violation citation:
1.
to either the owner or occupier of the residential property from which the noise is generated. For purposes of this ordinance, when only a civil remedy is sought, any occupier of the property is considered to be the authorized agent of the owner, unless the owner affirmatively proves to the court that the occupier was not authorized to be upon the premises. For civil penalties, notice to the occupier is considered notice to the owner.
2.
If the origin of the noise generated is a business, the violation citation may be issued in the name of the business (whether incorporated, a sole proprietorship, or a limited liability company), with service of the citation in the name of the business made upon the owner of the business, or a manager or agent of said business. In addition, the owner of the property upon which the business is located may also be served with a citation.
3.
If the municipal court finds that this chapter has been violated, the offender cited may be punished as follows:
(i)
First Offense: A civil penalty of not less than $100.00 and not more than $1,000.00;
(ii)
Second Offense: A civil penalty of not less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00;
(iii)
Any further offenses by a criminal penalty of a fine not to exceed $2,000.00 and/or incarceration up to six (6) months.
b.
In addition to issuing a fine as provided, or in lieu thereof, the Municipal Court Judge may issue an order requiring immediate abatement of any sound source alleged to be in violation of this section. Failure to abate such noise results in contempt of court.
c.
No provision of this section shall be construed to impair any common law or statutory cause of action, or legal remedy therefore, of any person for injury or damage arising from any violation of this section or from other law.
(Ord. No. 2023-02-02 , § 2, 02/27/2023; Ord. No. 2014-12-14, § 1, 12/22/2014 ; Ord. No. 2014-05-06, § 1, 05/12/2014 ; Ord. No. 2014-05-05, § 1, 05/12/2014 ; Ord. No. 2008-08-09, § 2, 08/04/2008; 2006-09-19, Amended, 09/11/2006; 2005-03-02, Amended, 03/07/2005, Amended subsection (s); 2001-04-03, Amended, 04/16/2001)
Section 8.8.4 - Prohibited Conduct.
It is unlawful for any responsible person(s) to create, permit, maintain, suffer, carry on or allow, upon their premises, any of the acts or things declared by this chapter to be a public nuisance. Any person creating, keeping or maintaining a nuisance, or permitting, allowing or suffering any nuisance to be maintained, who neglects or fails to abate or remove the nuisance within twenty-four (24) hours next after so creating, keeping or maintaining the nuisance, or permitting, allowing or suffering the same to be maintained, shall, for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter during which the nuisance is continued, be guilty of a separate violation of maintaining a public nuisance.
Section 8.8.5 - Abatement—Order.
modified
(a)
Upon the discovery of a nuisance, the code enforcement officer may order the responsible person creating, keeping, maintaining or permitting the same to abate it, and in default thereof, to undertake the abatement on behalf of the city. At least seventy-two (72) hours before he commences abatement, save in those cases of immediate necessity, the officer shall notify the person creating, keeping, maintaining or permitting the nuisance, the property owner and any person in possession of the property, if known, of his intentions. The notice shall be served personally or by first class mail and shall describe with particularity the nature of the violation, the sections of this Code or other law which are being violated and specifying a reasonable time within which the abatement must be accomplished. The expenses of such abatement may be recoverable as provided in section 8.8.12.
(b)
When written requests for abatement have been unsuccessful and demolition appears imminent the code enforcement official shall request the City of Roswell Community Development and Transportation Committee to consider authorizing an alternative such as city purchase, rehabilitation grant application or equivalent action. In addition tosuch other penalties as may be imposed a court entering a judgment of guilty to a charge of creating a public nuisance may order the abatement of the same on such terms and conditions as may be just and equitable.
(Ord. No. 2008-08-09, § 3, 08/04/2008; 2008-01-01, Amended, 01/07/2008; 2007-03-03, Amended, 03/05/2007; 2006-09-19, Amended, 09/11/2006)
Section 8.8.6 - Abatement—Immediate.
Whenever any nuisance is within a public way or easement, or is of such a character and so situated that it can be abated without the invasion or destruction of property or the prejudice of any right, and the further continuance is likely to result in expense to the city or injury to any person or property, and the responsible person(s) cannot be contacted or refuse(s) to immediately abate the condition, the enforcement officer may abate and remove the nuisance summarily. The expenses of such abatement may be recoverable as provided in section 8.8.12.
Section 8.8.7 - Abatement by City—Safeguards.
In any case where a nuisance is to be abated by the enforcement officer, it shall be the duty of such officer to proceed with due care and without unnecessary destruction of property. He shall in all cases be authorized to employ such assistance and adopt such means as may be necessary to effect the entire abatement of the nuisance.
Section 8.8.8 - Complaint of Nuisance.
Any city official or at least two (2) unrelated inhabitants of the city may file a verified complaint of nuisance with the City of Roswell office of code enforcement. A code enforcement officer shall thereupon issue a citation to the offender to appear in municipal court which shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the existence of such nuisance, and if found to exist to order its abatement. A finding by any governmental health department, health officer or a building inspector that any property, dwelling, building or structure is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that such property and/or person is in violation of this article.
Section 8.8.9 - Determination that Dwelling, Building, or Property is Unfit.
In addition to the nuisances declared in section 8.8.3, the judge may determine that a dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if they find that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure or on such property which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, structure or property; or the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, structures or property, or of other residents of such city. Such conditions include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
In the event the judge or board determines that a dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use, the judge or board may, following notice and a hearing, order that such dwelling, building, structure or property be vacated and secured until repairs, demolition, clean-up or other required abatement is accomplished.
Section 8.8.10 - Powers in Regard to Unfit Buildings, Structures or Property.
The municipal court judge may exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article including the following powers in addition to others herein granted, to:
(a)
Investigate property conditions in the city in order to determine which dwellings, buildings, structures or property are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial, or business use;
(b)
Administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(c)
Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(d)
Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as necessary to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(e)
Delegate any functions and powers under this article to such officers and agents as necessary.
State Law reference— Legislative findings regarding unfit buildings, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7.
Section 8.8.11 - Appropriations to Repair, Close or Demolish Unfit Buildings, Structures or Property.
The city council is authorized to make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of ordinances adopted in this article.
Section 8.8.12 - Recovery of Costs for Abatement.
The cost of abating, vacating and closing or removal or demolition or clean-up shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs incurred by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of said costs in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes.
The city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings, fences, walls or structures or clean-up of property only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city within thirty (30) days after the perfection of such lien, a sum of money equal to twenty-five (25) percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the city the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven (7) percent per annum, in three (3) equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as hereinabove prescribed.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred, or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the said three-year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the city.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of such three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (2) of this subsection, the city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for abatement, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of dwellings, buildings, or structure or clean-up of property as provided by O.C.G.A § 48-5-358 and other applicable state statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title, or interest in or lien upon said property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. article 3 of chapter 4 of title 48.
Section 8.8.13 - General Penalty.
Any person guilty of maintaining a nuisance as defined herein, or any person who fails to abate a nuisance after being ordered to do so, shall be in violation of this article and shall be subject to the penalty specified in section 1.1.3 in addition to any provided in this article.
