Article 10.1 - Ad Valorem Taxes[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 48-5-1 et seq. regulate the ad valorem taxation of property.

Section 10.1.1 - Ad Valorem Rate.
The tax ad valorem rate for each year shall be annually set by resolution of mayor and council.
Section 10.1.2 - Ad Valorem Tax Due and Delinquent Dates—Specified.
The ad valorem taxes due the city shall become due and payable at the time such tax bills are mailed which shall be in October of each year. Taxes may be paid at any time up to and until sixty (60) days after mailing without a penalty. Payments received after such time shall be delinquent.
Charter reference— See § 4.11.
Section 10.1.3 - Same—Delinquency Penalty.
Any person failing to make a tax return of his property on or before April 1 of each year shall be assessed ten (10) percent of the amount of taxes due the city as a penalty. Said penalty shall be in addition to the amount of taxes due the city and also in addition to the fi. fa. costs and interest.
Section 10.1.4 - Collection of Delinquent Taxes.
(a)
The duty to collect by levy and sale or otherwise for delinquent taxes is hereby imposed upon the city clerk or the deputy city clerk as issuing officer, and the chief of police as execution officer. All levies of execution for delinquent taxes shall be in the name of the city.
(b)
It shall be the duty of the city clerk or the deputy city clerk, with respect to delinquent city ad valorem taxes, to:
(1)
Keep a file of all newspapers in which an official advertisement appears;
(2)
Keep an execution docket in which shall be entered a full description of all executions;
(3)
Maintain a book of all sales;
(4)
Maintain an index to the sales and executions.
(c)
The city clerk or the deputy city clerk shall sign all levies, notices, advertisements and the like in his name for the city.
(d)
Execution issued in the name of the city for delinquent ad valorem taxes shall be directed and delivered to the chief of police, who shall enter the execution upon the docket to be kept in his office and he shall proceed to enforce the collection of the execution in the manner prescribed by law.
(e)
The city clerk or the deputy city clerk will issue all fi. fas. for delinquent taxes and the chief of police shall execute such fi. fas. under the same procedures provided by law governing execution of such process from the superior court, or by the use of any other available legal process and remedies.
State Law reference— Authority to municipality to impose excise tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Section 10.1.5 - Assessments.
The county tax assessor shall be the tax assessor for the city. The city adopts the assessment made by the tax assessor of the county for all property located in the city for each year.
Section 10.1.6 - Adjustments by County Tax Commissioner.
Authority is granted to the tax commissioner of Fulton County to make such adjustments in the collection of individual items of tax, and to make such refunds as may be proper and necessary and to adjust all of same with the city by adding to or deducting from the distribution due to the city at the next period of accounting.
Section 10.1.7 - Intangible Tax Refund.
In any case where a refund has been authorized for any part of the state, county, and county schools' share of intangible tax, that such action shall be authority to the tax commissioner to refund the proportionate part of the city's share of the intangible tax and to charge it against his next distribution.
