Article 8.6 - Clean Indoor Air Ordinance

Section 8.6.1 - Short Title of Article.
This article known as the Fulton County Clean Indoor Air Ordinance is herein adopted in its entirety by the City of Roswell.
Section 8.6.2 - Findings and Purpose.
(a)
Numerous studies, including those published by the Surgeon General of the United States and recent reports of the Environmental Protection Agency, have shown that secondhand smoke is a cause of disease, including lung cancer, in healthy nonsmokers; a major contributor to indoor air pollution; and particularly harmful to children, elderly people, and allergic individuals.
(b)
Accordingly, the mayor and council of the City of Roswell in accord with the Fulton County Board of Commissioners find and declare that the purpose of this article is to protect the public health and welfare by regulating smoking in public places and places of employment.
Section 8.6.3 - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall be construed as defined in this section:
Bar means:
(1)
An enclosed and/or separate area which is primarily devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages, wine, malt beverages, and/or distilled spirits, for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverages; and
(2)
Any adult entertainment premises as defined by chapter 18, article III of this Code. Although a food service establishment may contain a bar, the term "bar" shall not include the food service establishment dining area. The terms wine, malt beverages, and distilled spirits are defined in chapter 3 of this Code.
Designated smoking area (in a food service establishment) means an area of contiguous seating where smoking is permitted and which is situated so existing barriers and ventilation systems are used to minimize the toxic effects of smoke, is marked by appropriate signs, and does not include service lines or cashier areas.
Designated smoking area (in all other establishments) means any enclosed indoor area in which smoking is permitted. Such smoking area shall be clearly designated and separate from any area in which smoking is not permitted. In a place of employment, the designated smoking area shall be separate from a smokefree work area by floor to ceiling walls or ventilation technology effective in reducing the effects of smoke on the smokefree area other than portable air cleaning devices; provided, however, that no restrooms or employee lounges shall be designated smoking areas.
Dining area means any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which food is served.
Employer means any person, partnership, associate, corporation, or nonprofit entity which employs one (1) or more persons, including the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of Fulton County government and any city governments located in Fulton County.
Food service establishment means any establishment for the preparation and serving of meals, lunches, short orders, sandwiches, frozen desserts, or other edible products. The term includes, restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, short order cafes, luncheonettes, taverns, lunchrooms, places which manufacture retail sandwiches, soda fountains, institutional cafeterias (both public and private), food carts, industrial cafeterias, catering establishments, food vending vehicles, and operations connected therewith, and similar facilities by whatever name called. The term "food service establishment" shall not mean an establishment which does not provide seating or facilities for consumption of food on premises or a "food sales establishment" as that term is defined elsewhere in this Code. The term "food service establishment" shall not include a cocktail lounge or tavern if said cocktail lounge or tavern is a bar, as defined in this section. The term "food service establishment" shall not include any dining area located within a health care, educational, or child care facility. Food courts within enclosed shopping malls shall be treated as food service establishments under this article. When determining food service establishment seating capacity, outdoor seating will not be included in the total number.
Health department means the Fulton County Health Department.
Place of employment means any enclosed area under the control of a public or private employer which employees frequent during the course of employment including, but not limited to, work areas, restrooms, employee lounges, conference and meeting rooms, lobbies and reception areas.
(1)
A private residence is not a place of employment unless it is used as a child care facility or a health care facility.
(2)
The dining area of a food service establishment shall not be treated as a place of employment under this article.
Public place means any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which the public is permitted including, but not limited to, restaurants, stores, offices, waiting rooms, lobbies, public transit, restrooms, enclosed shopping malls, educational, recreational and health care facilities, child care facilities, auditoriums, theaters, sports arenas, service lines, airports, and meeting rooms. A private residence is not a public place unless it is used as a child care facility or a health care facility.
Retail tobacco store means a retail store in which the sale of tobacco products designed for smoking comprises more than fifty (50) percent of its receipts.
Service line means any indoor line at which one (1) or more persons are waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange of money.
Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other smoking equipment in any manner or form.
Sports arena means enclosed sports pavilions, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar places where members of the general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports events.
Tobacco business means a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership, or other enterprise, in which the primary activity is the sale, manufacture, or promotion, of tobacco, tobacco products, accessories, and in which the sale, manufacture, or promotion of other products is merely incidental.
Work area means an area in a place of employment where one (1) or more employees are routinely assigned and perform services for their employer.
Section 8.6.4 - Penalty for Violation of Article.
Any person who smokes or any person who allows smoking in violation of this article, or any person who violates any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a separate offense. Offenses shall be punishable as provided in section 1.1.3 of the City of Roswell Code of Ordinances.
Section 8.6.5 - Regulation of Smoking.
(a)
Smoking in Public Places. Except as otherwise provided in this article, smoking is prohibited in all public places within the incorporated limits of the City of Roswell.
(b)
Smoking in Places of Employment. Except as otherwise provided in this article, smoking in all places of employment is prohibited in the following manner:
(1)
Smoking shall be prohibited in auditoriums, gymnasiums, restrooms, elevators, classrooms, hallways, employee medical facilities, and rooms or areas which contain photocopying equipment or other office equipment used in common, and in company vehicles occupied by more than one (1) person unless the occupants of such vehicle agree that smoking may be permitted.
(2)
Smoking shall be prohibited in conference rooms and meeting rooms, unless everyone in that room agrees that smoking may be permitted.
Notwithstanding the above prohibitions, employers in places of employment shall provide nonsmoking employees with a smokefree work area, and provide for contiguous nonsmoking areas in employee cafeterias and lunchrooms. The contiguous nonsmoking areas in employee cafeterias and lunchrooms shall be sufficient to meet employee demand. An employer may not determine that no such demand exists. The employer shall not be required to make any expenditures or structural changes to create a smokefree work area. In the event an employer cannot, after using its best efforts, comply with an employee's request for a smokefree work area, the employer shall designate that employee's work area as a smokefree work area.
Section 8.6.6 - Government Complex Declared a No Smoking Area.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this article, the entire Roswell City Hall building, the area within twenty (20) feet of the main entrance to Roswell City Hall and the Fulton County government complex, including the atrium, are designated as no smoking areas.
Section 8.6.7 - Exceptions.
The regulation of smoking pursuant to this article shall not apply in the following areas:
(a)
Private homes, private residences, and private automobiles.
(b)
Bars.
(c)
Hotel and motel rooms rented to guests, except for those rooms designated by such hotels and motels as no smoking rooms.
(d)
Retail tobacco stores and tobacco businesses.
(e)
A designated smoking area in a food service establishment, provided that such designated smoking area shall not comprise more than fifty (50) percent of a food service establishment's seating capacity.
(f)
A designated smoking area in a place of employment, except that no designated smoking area shall be permitted in any health care or child care facility.
(g)
Work areas in any place of employment so long as the work area is exclusively occupied by smokers; everyone in the work area reaches an agreement that smoking may be permitted; the work area is not subject to regular entrance by the public or nonsmokers; and the work area is separate from a smokefree work area by floor to ceiling walls or some other means, equally effective in reducing the effects of smoke on the smokefree work area, other than portable air cleaning devices.
(h)
A designated smoking area in a public place.
(i)
Banquet or meeting rooms when these rooms are being used for private functions.
(j)
Persons residing within longterm care facilities, as that term is defined by state law, so long as the resident does not interfere with the rights of others or unless prior to admission the resident, guardian, or representative is informed of written admission policies which limit or ban smoking.
(k)
Wholly or partially enclosed private boxes in indoor sports arenas and in such designated smoking areas of the sports arena which areas shall not include the arena's seating space or the activity floor of such sports complex.
(l)
Limousines under private hire by an individual or corporation.
Section 8.6.8 - Declaration of Smokefree Environment.
Nothing in this article shall be deemed, interpreted, or construed to restrict or prohibit any person in charge of any public place or place of employment from designating that place a smokefree facility and prohibiting smoking in areas which otherwise would be permitted by this article.
Section 8.6.9 - Posting of Signs.
(a)
Because ordinances regulating smoking are primarily self-enforcing, adequate signage is important.
(b)
Signs reading "smoking," "no smoking," or the international symbol for "no smoking," consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle, with a red bar across it, whichever is appropriate, shall be conspicuously posted in every public place and place of employment where smoking is regulated by this article by the person in charge of such facility. Such signs shall be configured as follows: a minimum size requirement of four inches by four inches and containing letters of not less than one (1) inch in height.
(c)
Every food service establishment shall have posted at each entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that a nonsmoking section is available, and that smoking is allowed only in the designated smoking area.
Section 8.6.10 - Enforcement of Article.
(a)
Although smoking ordinances are primarily self-regulating, enforcement of this article shall be the ultimate responsibility of the Fulton County Department of Health.
(b)
The department of health may initiate any action to seek enforcement of this article on its own motion or upon information provided by any citizen. Any officer of the City of Roswell Police Department also may initiate an action for violation of this article if a violation occurs in his/her presence. Any other police officer or code enforcement officer whose jurisdiction is located within Roswell may initiate an action for violation of this article if a violation occurs in his/her presence, provided that the violation occurs within that officer's jurisdiction.
(c)
Any owner, operator, or manager of any establishment regulated by this article shall inform persons violating this article of this article's provisions.
(d)
In any dispute arising under this article, the need to breathe smokefree air shall be given precedence over the need to smoke.
Section 8.6.11 - Other Applicable Laws.
This article shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted or prohibited by other applicable laws, regulations, or policies.
Section 8.6.12 - Severability.
If any portion of this article or the application thereof shall be held invalid or unconstitutional, the other provisions of this article shall not be affected, and to this end the provisions of this article are declared to be severable.
