Article 5.3 - Building and Technical Codes

Section 5.3.1 - Building and Technical Codes—Adoption by Reference.
(a)
The following technical and building codes, including the latest edition of each as adopted and amended the latest editions of the following Georgia State Minimum Standard Codes, adopted by reference and shall be enforced in the City of Roswell:
(1)
International Building Code
(2)
National Electrical Code
(3)
International Fuel Gas Code
(4)
International Mechanical Code
(5)
International Plumbing Code
(6)
International Residential Code
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code
(8)
International Fire Code
(9)
International Residential Code, Appendix G
(10)
International Existing Building Code
(11)
Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code
(12)
International Property Maintenance Code
(13)
National Green Building Standards—Voluntary for those applicants seeking green certification
(14)
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
(b)
The codes listed in subsection (a) of this section shall mean such codes as they exist, provided that any such code may hereafter be amended as provided in O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20(9).
(c)
Any matters in any standard code adopted by this section which are contrary to or inconsistent with any existing ordinance of the City of Roswell shall prevail over such ordinance and such ordinance shall stand repealed to the extent of the inconsistency or conflict.
(d)
Unless otherwise specified, when the standard codes refer to the duties of certain officials named therein, the official of the City of Roswell who has duties corresponding to those of the named individual in such standard code shall be deemed to be the responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of such standard code.
( 2017-04-04 , § 1, Amended 04/24/2017; Ord. No. 2013-04-02, § 1, Amended, 4/22/2013; 2012-08-13, § 1, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.2 - Applicability.
(a)
General. Where, in any specific case, different sections of these codes specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
(b)
Building. The provisions of the International Building Code, as amended, shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition, of every building, or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(c)
Electrical. The provisions of the National Electrical Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
(d)
Gas. The provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of consumer's gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as covered in this Code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(e)
Mechanical. The provisions of the International Mechanical Code, as amended, shall apply to the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems, except in one- and two-family dwellings.
(f)
Plumbing. The provisions of the International Plumbing Code, as amended, shall apply to every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and when connected to a water or sewerage system.
(g)
Fire prevention. The provisions of the International Fire Code, as amended, shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
(h)
Energy. The provisions of the International Energy Conservation Code, as amended, shall regulate the design of building envelopes for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage and the design and selection of mechanical, electrical, service water heating, and illumination systems and equipment that will enable the effective use of energy in new building construction.
(i)
One- and two-family dwelling. The provisions of the International Residential Code, as amended, shall apply to the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, of every one- or two-family dwelling or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.
(j)
The Unsafe Building Abatement Code. The provisions of this code provide code enforcement personnel with the necessary tools to have dangerous and unsafe buildings repaired or demolished.
(2012-08-13, § 2, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.3 - Standard Building Code—Appendix.
The City of Roswell hereby adopts Appendix G of the International Residential Code. Such standards and schedules shall be enforced in their entirety unless expressly modified in this chapter.
(2012-08-13, § 3, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.4 - Referenced Standards.
Standards referenced in the text of the technical codes shall be considered an integral part of the codes. If specific portions of a standard are denoted by code text, only those portions of the standard shall be enforced. Where code provisions conflict with a standard, the code provisions shall be enforced. Permissive and advisory provisions in a standard shall not be construed as mandatory.
Section 5.3.5 - Existing Buildings.
(a)
Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation work may be made to any existing, structure, building, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system without requiring the building, structure, plumbing, electrical, mechanical or gas system to comply with all the requirements of the technical codes. Any such alteration, repair or rehabilitation work must conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction. The chief building official shall determine the extent to which the existing system shall be made to conform to the requirements of the technical codes for new construction.
(b)
If the occupancy classification of any existing building or structure is changed, the building, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems shall be made to conform to the intent of the technical codes as required by the chief building official.
(2012-08-13, § 4, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.6 - Historic Structures.
In addition to those provisions contained within the Standard Building Code, the following restrictions shall govern moving, demolition, or alteration of historic structures and shall be considered an amendment to section 101.5 of the Standard Building Code:
No structure of any type may be moved into a historic district until the provisions of Unified Development Code (UDC) Section 13.7, as amended, have been complied with. Further, no structure within an historic Roswell district may be erected, demolished, removed wholly and/or in part nor the exterior architectural character of such structure be altered until referenced Unified Development Code (UDC) Section 13.7 has been complied with. All structures and/or buildings that are moved into the City of Roswell must be inspected and approved by the chief building inspector or his representative before the structure and/or building is moved into the city.
(Ord. No. 2014-02-03, § 1, Amended, 2/24/2014; 2012-08-13, § 5, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Sections 5.3.7, 5.3.8 - Reserved.
Section 5.3.9 - Codes—Administration and Enforcement.
The building code shall be administered and enforced by the chief building official of the City of Roswell and his assistants. The chief building official shall have general charge and supervision of all building construction in the city and the inspector, through himself and his designated representatives, shall require all contractors and builders to conform to such code.
(2012-08-13, § 6, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.10 - Unsafe Buildings or Systems.
All buildings, structures, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems which are unsafe, unsanitary, or do not provide adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use, constitute a hazard to safety or health, are considered unsafe buildings or service systems. All such unsafe buildings, structures or service systems are hereby declared illegal and shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the provisions of the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code.
Section 5.3.11 - Requirements not Covered by Code.
Any requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operation of an existing, or proposed building, structure, electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this or the other technical codes, shall be determined by the chief building official.
(2012-08-13, § 7, Amended, 08/27/2012)
Section 5.3.12 - Alternate Materials and Methods.
The provisions of the technical codes are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by them, provided any such alternate has been reviewed by the chief building official. The chief building official shall approve any such alternate, provided the chief building official finds that the alternate for the purpose intended is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the technical codes, in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The chief building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claim made regarding the alternate.
(2012-08-13, § 8, Amended, 08/27/2012)
