Article 10.6 - Financial Institutions

Section 10.6.1 - Banks—License Tax Levied.
There is hereby levied a license tax upon depository financial institutions located within the city limits at a rate of one-quarter of one percent of the gross receipts of such institutions as defined and allocated in this chapter provided that the minimum annual amount of such levy upon any depository financial institution shall be $1,000.00. As used herein, "depository financial institution" means a "bank" chartered under the laws of this state or under the laws of the United States and domiciled in this state which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a corporate structure authorizing the issuance of capital stock, and a "savings and loan association" meaning any financial institution other than a credit union, chartered under the laws of this state or under the laws of the United States and domiciled in this state which is authorized to receive deposits in this state and which has a mutual corporate form.
State Law reference— O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93 provides that local governments may collect a business license tax from depository financial institutions.
Section 10.6.2 - Calculating Gross Receipts.
In calculating the business license tax levied on banks, "gross receipts" has the same meaning as, and is determined in accordance with, O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
Section 10.6.3 - Allocation of Total Gross Receipts.
The total gross receipts generated in this state by a depository financial institution subject to the tax provided for herein shall be allocated among separate taxing jurisdictions as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93(d).
Section 10.6.4 - Filing Information and Returns; When Payment.
(a)
All banks and financial institutions doing business in the city shall file with the city clerk all the information called for by this article and necessary to arrive at the gross receipts as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93 not later than March 1 of each year. In addition, the tax payable under this article shall be due and payable no later than March 1 of each year.
(b)
In the event that as of March 1 of any year hereafter, no current ad valorem tax digest is available or no current ad valorem tax rate has been set by the mayor and city council, all savings and loan institutions doing business within the city shall be required to file their return and pay the tax called for herein within fifteen (15) days of the date a current ad valorem tax computation is available.
Section 10.6.5 - Enforcement.
(a)
The fees and taxes levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city.
(b)
For a violation of this article the guilty person or company shall be punished as provided in section 1.1.3, and in addition to such punishment, such violation shall be grounds for refusing or revoking a license.
