Chapter 11 - MUNICIPAL COURT
Article 11.1 - In General[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal courts are established, maintained and operated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.

Section 11.1.1 - Court Personnel.
As set forth in Article VI of the Charter of the City of Roswell, the functions of the municipal court shall be carried out by a judge, a clerk of court, a solicitor, court marshals and such other employees as deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the court and the timely administration of justice.
Section 11.1.2 - Solicitor—Qualifications and Compensation.
Upon recommendation of the city administrator, the mayor is authorized, with the approval of the city council, to appoint a solicitor of the municipal court of the City of Roswell. The solicitor is hereby authorized to prosecute all cases coming before Municipal Court of the City of Roswell for the City of Roswell. The city may also appoint qualified assistant solicitors to act in the solicitor's place and stead in case of temporary absences or as necessary. The solicitor and assistant solicitors must be permitted to practice law in all the courts of the State of Georgia and be members in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia.
The compensation of the solicitor shall be fixed by the city council. Before entering upon duties of the office, the solicitor shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this state, that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality.
( Ord. No. 2015-04-07, § 1, 04/13/2015 )
Section 11.1.3 - Court Rules; Internal Operating Procedures.
The municipal court shall be controlled by the rules of the superior courts, as far as they are applicable to municipal courts, and a sound construction of the Constitutions of the state and the United States and the Charter and ordinances of the city. When necessary, the judge or clerk of court may adopt internal operating procedures which shall be formally adopted and made available to the public and members of the bar.
Section 11.1.4 - Continuance of Cases.
Continuances shall be made only for good cause shown. The judge may grant continuations of a case.
Section 11.1.5 - Fines; Enforcement by Levy and Execution; Payment in Advance of Court Date.
For fines that may be due by any defendant, execution may be issued by the court clerk and collected as tax executions are collected.
Persons charged with traffic violations or other offenses as specified by the judge may, prior to the time for their court appearance, plead guilty in writing and pay to the city as their fine the amount set as the appearance bond for the offense charged. Those persons charged with driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs and other serious offenses, as determined by the judge, shall be required in all cases to appear before the court for disposition of the case.
Section 11.1.6 - Judgment and Sentences.
Upon a judgment or plea of guilty the court shall impose sentence. The court may:
(a)
Impose a fine, with or without a commitment for confinement, compulsory work or both;
(b)
Commit the defendant to confinement, compulsory work or both;
(c)
Suspend the execution of the sentence in whole or in part; or
(d)
Defer the execution of the sentence or any portion or portions thereof to one (1) or more fixed dates in the future.
State Law reference— Authority to impose jail term, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-32-1(c) and 36-32-5.
Section 11.1.7 - Contempt of Court.
Any person who, during a sitting of the municipal court, shall be guilty of contempt of court, or refuse to abide by any sentence of such court, shall be punished in accordance with section 1.1.3.
Article 11.2 - Appearance Bonds

Section 11.2.1 - Appearance Bond; Procedure for Accepting.
Offenses against the ordinances of the city shall be bailable as follows:
(a)
The judge or any other officer designated by the judge, may accept bond of the accused conditioned upon the appearance of the accused at the next session or any subsequent session of the municipal court as stated in the bond, to answer the charge.
(b)
The bond shall be in writing in an amount established in a schedule approved by the judge of the municipal court.
(c)
A person cited for violation of a city ordinance may be released on his own recognizance if the arresting officer, police chief or judge makes a determination based on all surrounding circumstances and in his good sound discretion that the person charged will appear at the time set for the court.
(d)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11 any person cited for a traffic offense shall be released in lieu of bail upon showing his or her drivers license.
(e)
All persons arrested or notified by citation or ticket of parking violations shall be released on their own recognizance.
Section 11.2.2 - Forfeiture of Appearance Bonds.
The judge shall call the case in its regular order, and, if the accused is not in court and does not answer the call, and, if no good and sufficient reason is given for non-appearance, the judge shall at the end of the day enter on the docket where the case is stated "Bond forfeited," or similar words.
Upon forfeiture of any bond, the cash deposited as security shall, after 60 days, be paid to the city administration department and it shall become the property of the city provided that the conditions specified in O.C.G.A. § 17-6-72 do not apply.
Upon the forfeiture of any bond signed by a person as surety, the clerk of court shall issue an execution against the principal and surety on the bond for the amount thereof which shall be collected as tax executions are collected.
Section 11.2.3 - Failure or Refusal to Give Bond; Subsequent Confinement.
If the accused or a witness shall fail or refuse to give the bond and security as required under this article, the person so failing or refusing may be confined or kept under guard, so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify as the case may be.
Section 11.2.4 - Professional Bondsman.
No professional bondsman shall be accepted as surety on a bail bond unless he holds a current business license in the city, is approved by the Fulton County Sheriff, and has fully complied with all other City of Roswell requirements for bonding companies.
