ARTICLE XIV. - SIDEWALK CAFÉS[9]

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Cross reference— Streets and sidewalks, ch. 22.

Sec. 8-421. - Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to provide for the authorization and regulation of sidewalk cafés as operated by qualified and licensed businesses on public sidewalks within authorized districts of the City of Villa Rica.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 1, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-422. - Permit.
A licensed business within the downtown overlay zoning districts who desires to utilize public sidewalks for outdoor seating may apply to the director of community development or its designee for a permit to operate a sidewalk café. Permits shall be renewed annually. The permit application shall include the following information:
(1)
Name of applicant;
(2)
A copy of a valid City of Villa Rica occupational license to operate a business in front of which the sidewalk café will be located;
(3)
A copy of the current certificate of insurance in the amounts and categories required by this chapter;
(4)
A diagram identifying the perimeter area, the dimensions of the area, the distance from perimeter to curb or nearest obstacle, number and placement of tables, and the design and materials of the required divider.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 2, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-423. - Application and conditions of issuance.
(a)
Criteria.In reviewing the application for a sidewalk café, the city manager or his/her designee will consider the following criteria in determining whether a permit may be issued:
(1)
Qualifications. Permits may only be issued incidentally with the operation of a properly licensed business.
(2)
Location. The outdoor seating area of the sidewalk café may only extend the width of the storefront and must be partitioned off from the rest of the sidewalk. The sidewalk café may not extend more than 20 feet from the building.
(3)
Arrangement. The permit application shall include a diagram showing the location of the sidewalk café in relation to the surrounding buildings, streets, and sidewalks, along with the location of all furnishings to be placed in the sidewalk café.
(4)
Compliance with regulations. The applicant must acknowledge by signature the regulations provided under this article.
(b)
No property right. The issuance of a permit shall not be construed or interpreted to convey any property rights or any estate in land to any person or business. Sidewalk café permits are nontransferable. Sidewalk café permits will expire upon change in use of the facility, and December 31 of each year.
(c)
Closing of café. Sidewalk cafés may be ordered closed at any time by the city, for any reason including, but not limited to, construction, maintenance, public health, safety or welfare, emergencies, public parades, and special events.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 3, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-424. - Regulations.
(a)
Limitations on area. In no event shall the uses permitted by issuance of permit reduce the portion of any sidewalk customarily used by pedestrians to less than five feet in width. Nothing will be placed within five feet of a fire hydrant, pedestrian crosswalk, or handicapped corner curb cut.
(b)
Divider. The sidewalk café shall be separated from the remaining sidewalk by non-permanent barriers that can be disassembled and removed if necessary. The design of the divider must be included in the permit application and shown on the diagram. All tables, chairs, and other furnishings shall be located within the limits of the divider and shown on the diagram.
(c)
Sanitation. The permittee business shall keep the area covered by the permit clean, neat, and orderly at all times. The business is responsible for removing all debris and trash from the sidewalk café at all times.
(d)
Furnishings. Furnishings shall not be secured to lamp posts, streetlights, trees, or any public fixtures. All furnishing shall be removed from the sidewalk café from time to time as required by the city. Should a severe storm warning be issued, all outdoor furniture shall be removed from the sidewalk café.
(1)
Tables and chairs. Tables and chairs shall match and be made of safe, sturdy, and durable material. All furniture shall be commercial grade and manufactured for outdoor use. White plastic or PVC furniture shall be prohibited.
(2)
Umbrellas. Each table may be equipped with one umbrella and shall be maintained in good, clean, and operable condition. Table umbrellas shall have no signs or advertisements on them, be completely contained within the outdoor seating area, even when fully extended, and the lowest dimension of the umbrella shall maintain a minimum of seven-foot vertical clearance above the sidewalk to allow for patron and server circulation.
(3)
Signs. Any signs must be kept within the sidewalk café and are subject to sign permit approval. All such signs must comply with City Code.
(4)
All kitchen equipment and refuse containers used to service the sidewalk café shall be located inside the primary business.
(e)
Alcohol. Only a properly permitted business with a sidewalk café, which holds a valid alcohol license for consumption on the premises, may serve alcohol to customers in the sidewalk café, subject to the following restrictions:
(1)
Alcohol may only be served in the sidewalk café during the hours allowed under the city's ordinance for service.
(2)
Patrons may not be in possession of more than one alcoholic beverage.
(3)
Patrons may not remove alcohol from the premises of the business or sidewalk café. The area enclosed for the sidewalk café shall be considered part of the premises for the purposes of consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(f)
Smoking. Patrons shall not be allowed to smoke within the sidewalk café.
(g)
Sound. Music, live or recorded, or other amplified sound shall be allowed within the sidewalk café, provided it does not violate the city's ordinances related to noise.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 4, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-425. - Revocation.
Issuance of a sidewalk café permit is conditional. A permit may be suspended or revoked by the city's community development director or its designee if it is found out that:
(1)
Any necessary business or health permit has been suspended, revoked, or cancelled.
(2)
The permit holder is not in compliance with any of the regulations with respect to the sidewalk café.
(3)
The permit holder has failed to correct violations of this chapter or any other ordinance within 48 hours of receipt of the notice of same delivered in writing to the permit holder.
(4)
The permit holder has a history of violations of this chapter of three or more within a two-year period, or immediately upon any violation depending upon the severity of the violation.
(5)
Permits may be suspended for a period up to 12 months depending upon history and severity of the violation.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 5, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-426. - Indemnification.
As a condition of issuance, the approved applicant and any person acting under or pursuant to said approval, agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, release, and defend (even if the allegations are false, fraudulent, or groundless) to the maximum extent allowed by law, the city manager, community development director, the city, its city council, and each member thereof, and its officers, employees, advisory board members and representatives, from and against all liability, loss, suits, claims, damages, costs, judgments, and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs of litigation) which in whole or in part result from, arise out of, or are claimed to result from or arise out of, any acts, negligence, errors or omissions of approved applicant, its employees, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, or agents by reason of or arising out of, or in any matter connected with, any and all acts, operations, privileges authorized, allowed, or undertaken pursuant to the use approval under their ordinance including, without limitation, any condition or property used in operations.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 6, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-427. - Insurance.
The approved applicant shall be required to have general liability insurance providing for the following limits naming the city as an additional insured in the following minimum amounts: $500,000.00 per person; and $1,000,000.00 per occurrence, with an additional $1,000,000.00 umbrella coverage. Not applicable as to private property.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 7, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-428. - Penalties.
In addition to possible suspension or revocation of the permit, the following minimum fines shall be imposed for violations of this chapter:
First citation: $100.00 fine.
Second citation (within one-year period): $250.00 fine.
Third and subsequent citations (within one-year period): $500.00 fine.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 8, 7-5-2016)
Sec. 8-429. - Americans with Disabilities Act.
Any person receiving a permit hereunder agrees to fully comply with all requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act as currently existing or as may be hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 12-16-CCO, § 9, 7-5-2016)
