ARTICLE VIII. - GROWLERS

Sec. 4-237. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ancillary growler license means the document issued by the city which allows under certain conditions, the filling of reusable containers commonly referred to as growlers on the premises of the licensee directly or vicariously through employees (permittees) who have proper permits issued hereunder or under the city alcoholic beverage code.
Approved closure means a cork, stopper or twist-type closure.
Beer or malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other product, or any combination of such products in water containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including but not limited to ale, porter, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. Also included are beverages known as "non-alcoholic" beer, which is made by fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or other products, and containing less than three percent, but more than 0.1 percent alcohol by volume. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Growler means a properly sanitized reusable non-plastic container capable of holding no less than 32 fluid ounces nor no more than 64 fluid ounces and which shall be capable of being sealed with an approved closure type at the time of purchase for off premises consumption of the contents thereof.
License or primary license means the document issued by the city pursuant to section 4-25 which allows under certain conditions, the package sale of beer or wine on the premises of the licensee directly or vicariously through employees.
Licensee means the individual to whom a license for the package sale of beer or wine is issued under section 4-25. In the case of a partnership, limited liability company or corporation, all partners, officers and directors of the partnership or corporation are licensees.
Permittee means any individual to whom a pouring permit is issued for the dispensing of malt beverages or beers in establishments licensed for the filling of reusable containers commonly referred to as growlers on the premises of the licensee.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi- public.
Pouring permit means an authorization granted by the city to fill reusable containers commonly referred to as growlers on the premises of the licensee. Valid pouring permits issued under section 4-154 shall also be valid for the purposes of this article.
Premises means one room or more all contiguous in nature operating under the same trade name and which share a common entrance.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-238. - Ancillary growler license required.
Any applicant for or holder of a valid retail package beer and wine license (primary license) in the city shall also be eligible for an ancillary grower license upon approval of the primary license and payment of an additional regulatory fee in the amount of $200.00 annually. The regulatory fee shall be paid upon original application and upon each renewal application and shall be in addition to any other fees associated with the applicant's mandatory primary license.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Sec. 4-239. - Regulations.
(a)
Growlers may only be filled by individuals possessing valid city pouring permits and may only be filled with malt beverages or craft beers from kegs procured from duly licensed wholesalers.
(b)
It shall be the responsibility of the individual or entity filling the growler to sanitize such growler prior to filling. The licensee must comply with the state department of agriculture's General Rules 40-7-1.40 requiring a "contamination free" transfer process for beverages and the use of washed, rinsed and sanitized growler fill tubes, which must be cleaned between each use and must comply with the state department of agriculture's best management practices for growler refilling.
(c)
Each growler must be securely sealed and removed from the premises in its original sealed condition utilizing an approved closure. At the time of the sale and/or refilling, a paper or plastic adhesive band, strip, or sleeve shall be applied to the container and extend over the top of the approved closure forming a tamper evident seal that must be broken upon opening of the container. The adhesive band, strip, or sleeve shall bear the name and address of the business filling the growler and the container must be displayed prominently on the container.
(d)
The licensee must comply with all federal and state laws and regulations regarding packaging and labeling alcoholic malt beverages. Each growler filled with a malt beverage or craft beer must contain the following warning which may be printed on the paper or plastic adhesive band, strip or sleeve that is applied to the container after filling or which may be affixed separately to the container on a preprinted label as follows:
"GOVERNMENT WARNING: (1) According to the Surgeon General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of birth defects. (2) Consumption of alcoholic beverages impairs your ability to drive a car or operate machinery and may cause health problems."
(e)
Establishments licensed to fill growlers shall be authorized to offer without charge, samples of malt beverage or craft beer to patrons over the age of 21 years. Samples shall not exceed two ounces in volume nor shall any one individual be offered more than four samples within a 24-hour period. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee and any employee of the licensee to comply with the identification requirements of this chapter prior to filling a growler or supplying a sample to a patron to ensure the patron is of legal age to purchase and consume alcohol.
(f)
The filling of growlers by means of a tapped keg when properly dispensed by a permitted employee of a licensed retailer under the provisions of this article shall not constitute the breaking of a package as contemplated by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26 or any other provision of any ordinance regulating the sale of package beer and wine in the city.
(Ord. No. 0-07-2020 , 8-11-2020; Ord. No. 0-33-2022 , 4-12-2022)
Secs. 4-240—4-260. - Reserved.
