Chapter 10 - ANIMALS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to exercise animal control, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3); dogs generally, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-1 et seq.; the state Animal Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 4-11-1 et seq.; rabies control and licensing of animals by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 31-19-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adequate food and water means food and water which is sufficient in amount and appropriate for the particular type of animal to prevent starvation, dehydration, or a significant risk to the animal's health from lack of food or water.
Animal means any wild or domestic animal except members of the rodent family, which are excluded from the provisions of this chapter; except as otherwise expressly provided.
Animal control board means the chief of police of the city police department, or said chief's designee; the president of the Albany Humane Society, or said president's designee; and one other individual to be appointed by the board of commissioners of the city.
Animal control officer means the chief of police of the city police department, or said chief's designee, to carry out the duties of an animal control officer as provided in this division. The animal control officer shall also be designated as the dog control officer for carrying out various duties under this division.
At large means that an animal is off the property of its owner and not under restraint.
Dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
(1)
The term "dangerous dog" means any dog that, according to the records of an appropriate authority:
a.
Inflicts a severe injury on a human being or other animal without provocation on public or private property at any time after adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived; or
b.
Aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or other animals without provocation after the dog has been classified as a potentially dangerous dog and after the owner has been notified of such classification.
(2)
The term "potentially dangerous dog" means any dog that, without provocation, causes injury to or endangers the safety of a human being or another animal on public or private property at any time after adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a dog may be considered potentially dangerous if the dog has been chained as a permanent means of confinement.
(3)
A dog that inflicts an injury upon a person when the dog is being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official duties shall not be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this definition. A dog shall not be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog within the meaning of this definition if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person over the age of five who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or had in the past been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(4)
The term "owner," as used in this definition and as pertinent to dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs, means any natural person or any legal entity, including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership, firm, or trust owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, or having custody or control of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog within the city.
(5)
The term "records of an appropriate authority," as used in this definition means records of any state, county, or municipal law enforcement agency; records of any county or municipal animal control agency; records of any county board of health; records of any federal, state, or local court; or records of an animal control officer provided for in this chapter.
(6)
The term "severe injury," as used in this definition, means any physical injury that results in broken bones or disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or a physical injury that results in death.
Exposed to rabies means that an animal has been bitten by, or exposed to, any animal known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
Free running line means a line which is attached or is secured by a swivel or other device which will prevent the line from being wrapped around some object.
Humane care of animals means, but is not limited to the provision of adequate medical attention, adequate heat, ventilation, sanitary shelter, and wholesome and adequate food and water, consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species, and breed.
Kennel means any person engaged in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding wild or domestic animals or livestock.
Livestock means all animals of the equine or bovine class, including goats, sheep, mules, horses, cattle, and other grazing animals, and all domestic fowl.
Owner means any person owning, keeping or harboring any wild or domestic animal or livestock.
Proper enclosure means an enclosure for keeping a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog while on the owner's property securely confined indoors or in a well ventilated securely enclosed and locked pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to prevent the dog from escaping. Any such pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top, and, if the dog is enclosed within a fence, all sides of the fence shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the fence shall be constructed or secured in such a manner as to prevent the dog's escape either from over or from under the fence. Any such enclosure shall also provide protection from the elements for the dog and shall be at least 200 square feet per dog.
Restraint means an animal is controlled by a leash, at heel or beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands, or on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets, or confined within the property limits of its owner.
Spayed female means any female animal which has been operated upon to prevent conception as evidenced by the certificate of a licensed veterinarian.
Suffering means deprived of adequate food and water and/or humane care.
(Code 1975, §§ 5-1, 5-3; Code 1985, §§ 6-1, 6-21(g)—(i), 6-98; Ord. No. 82-158, § 1, 6-30-1982; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003; Ord. No. 87-137, § 1(1), (2)(g)—(i), 5-12-1987; Ord. No. 10-106, § 1, 1-26-2010; Ord. No. 10-119, §§ 1, 2, 4-27-2010)
Sec. 10-2. - Exemptions.
The vaccination requirements of section 10-126 shall not apply to any dog belonging to a nonresident of the city kept within the city for not longer than 30 days, providing that all such dogs shall at all times while in the city be kept within a building, enclosure, or vehicle or be under restraint by the owner.
(Code 1975, § 5-2; Code 1985, § 6-2)
Sec. 10-3. - Designation of bird sanctuary.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1975, § 5-31; Code 1985, § 6-3)
Sec. 10-4. - Protection of birds.
It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl, or to rob bird nests or wild fowl nests.
(Code 1975, § 5-32; Code 1985, § 6-4)
Sec. 10-5. - Humane treatment.
(a)
Animals shall be fed no less than once daily and shall be fed a diet that meets the basic nutritional needs of the animal according to its species and breed. Food shall be kept in clean containers and shall not be allowed to mold or spoil.
(b)
Clean drinking water of median temperature shall be provided at all times in a secured container; that is, a container that is stationary and cannot be spilled or overturned by the animal.
(c)
All animals shall be provided with shelter to protect them from the elements.
(1)
Winter: shelter for dogs will be a structure with a roof and floor that is small enough to allow the animal's body heat to warm it and large enough that the dog can stand up and turn around. Metal barrels are prohibited. Plastic barrels are allowed so long as they are secured to prevent movement of the barrel.
(2)
Summer: doghouses, barrels, or similar structures must be provided in addition to adequate shade.
(d)
All owners of diseased/injured/malnourished animals shall in a timely manner obtain veterinary care (by a licensed veterinarian) to the extent that the animal is free from excessive pain, suffering, and/or disfigurement.
(e)
Tethering.
(1)
Tethering dogs as a primary means of confinement is prohibited.
(2)
Tethered animals must wear collars.
(3)
Tethered animals must be secured in such a way as to prevent tangling, twisting, or wrapping.
(4)
Animals may not be tethered so that they can reach fences or any other structures by which they can hang themselves.
(5)
Animals may not be tethered so that they can reach any public area, including but not limited to alleys, streets, sidewalks, common areas, etc.
(6)
Each tethered animal must have access to its own shelter, food, and water, separate from other animals.
(7)
Animals may be tethered with cables or chains. Chains must be of minimal weight and thickness to secure the particular animal. Large, heavy chains are prohibited.
(8)
No animal shall be fitted with weights of any kind at any time.
(9)
Cats may not be tethered.
(f)
Any such physical abuse that is unlawful to commit against humans shall also be unlawful to commit against animals, including but not limited to striking, cutting, burning, shaking, throwing, strangling, terrorizing, or depriving of sustenance.
(g)
It shall be unlawful for the fur of long-coated animals to become matted to the point that the animal's skin is pulled, sores develop, and/or vision, hearing, normal walking, urinating, or defecating become impaired.
(h)
It shall be unlawful to incite animals or fowl to fight, or to attend, participate in, or watch any such fight.
(i)
It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed veterinarian to crop or attempt to crop the ears, tail, or any other body part of an animal.
(j)
It shall be unlawful for a motor vehicle owner or operator to place or confine an animal or allow it to be placed or confined or to remain in an unattended motor vehicle without sufficient ventilation or under conditions for such a period of time as may reasonably be expected to endanger the health or well-being of such animal due to heat, lack of water, or such other circumstances as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death of the animal. Officers finding an animal under such conditions may rescue such animal from the vehicle. Any officer who acts in substantial compliance with the requirements of this section shall make the officer and/or the city immune from any criminal or civil liability.
(Code 1975, §§ 5-6, 5-7; Code 1985, § 6-5)
Sec. 10-6. - Confinement of animals.
Every owner of animals shall confine such animals in secure confinement to prevent their being at large. When animals are off the owner's premises, they must be at all times under the direct control of such owner or other competent person by means of a secure leash not over ten feet in length, or at heel or beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands, or by some other equivalent means of positive physical control. No dog shall be confined on the owner's premises by a leash of less than ten feet in length except by a leash which is a free running line.
(Code 1975, § 5-8; Code 1985, § 6-6)
Sec. 10-7. - Facilities for keeping animals.
(a)
Every person desiring to keep animals within the city limits shall provide and maintain adequate and sanitary facilities for the keeping of such animals in accordance with the standards required by the provisions of this article.
(b)
Enclosures for the confinement of animals shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(Code 1975, §§ 5-41, 5-45; Code 1985, § 6-7)
Sec. 10-8. - Tying animals to trees, poles, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tie any animal to any shade tree growing in any street or to any box around any tree planted or growing in any street or other public place or to any fire hydrant, lamppost or telephone, telegraph, electric light or electric railway pole in any street or public place within the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-10; Code 1985, § 6-8)
Secs. 10-9—10-34. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 10-35. - Investigation; seizure; disposition.
(a)
For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this article and of enforcing its provisions, police officers are hereby empowered to lawfully enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept or harbored and demand the exhibition by the owner of any such dog and the license for such dog.
(b)
Police officers may lawfully enter any premises for the purpose of impounding a dog or making a case against an owner after the dog has been seen in violation of any section of this Code.
(c)
In the event an animal control officer finds any dog, cat, horse, mule, hog or other animal to be suffering, as herein defined, the officer may forthwith seize any such animal and remove it to the animal shelter. All expenses incurred in seizing, transporting and maintaining any such animal shall be for the account of the owner and shall be paid in full before the owner is allowed to reclaim any such animal.
(d)
Where the condition of any seized animal is, in the opinion of the health officer or any licensed veterinarian, such as to justify it, such animal may be disposed of by euthanasia.
(e)
In the event that the owner of any animal seized for violation of or held as evidence in connection with an alleged violation of O.C.G.A. §§ 16-12-4 or 4-11-10, or any ordinance of the city requiring humane treatment of animals, pleads guilty or nolo contendere to any such offense, or is found guilty thereof, the owner shall forfeit all rights to the animal, and the city may, in its discretion, offer the animal for adoption or retain the same for its use. No animal may be reclaimed by an owner while any such charges are pending.
(f)
When any animal has been impounded pursuant to the provisions of this Code because the owner has allegedly not provided humane care, the city may notify said owner to deposit an amount fixed and determined by the city to pay for the expense of the maintenance of the animal by the city until the question of forfeiture of ownership has been legally determined. If the deposit is depleted prior to such determination, additional deposits may be required from time to time. If the owner cannot be located after reasonable diligence, notification may be given by a notice published one time in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements are published. If the owner shall fail to make such deposit within three days after such notification or publication, the owner shall forfeit all rights to the animal, and the city may, in its discretion, offer the animal for adoption, or retain it for the use of the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-3; Code 1985, § 6-21; Ord. No. 87-137, § 1(1), (2), 5-12-1987)
Sec. 10-36. - Interference.
No person shall resist, interfere with, hinder, or molest any animal control officer in the performance of the duties imposed upon them by this chapter, or seek to release any animal in the custody of an animal control officer except as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1975, § 5-4; Code 1985, § 6-22)
Secs. 10-37—10-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RABIES CONTROL

Sec. 10-61. - Quarantine of suspected animal.
Every animal which bites a person or another animal shall be promptly reported to the county rabies control officer, and shall thereafter be securely quarantined at the direction of the officer for a period of ten days and shall not be released from such quarantine except by written permission of the officer. In the discretion of the county rabies control officer such quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the animal control shelter, or, at the owner's option and expense, in a veterinary hospital of the owner's choice. In the case of stray animals whose ownership is not known, quarantine shall be at the animal control shelter.
(Code 1975, § 5-101; Code 1985, § 6-36)
Sec. 10-62. - Surrender of animal; redemption.
The owner, upon demand by the county rabies control officer, shall forthwith surrender any animal which has bitten a human or which is suspected of having been exposed to rabies for supervised quarantine, the expense of which shall be borne by the owner. Such animal may be reclaimed by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of the impoundment and board fees therefor and upon compliance with the licensing provisions of this article.
(Code 1975, § 5-102; Code 1985, § 6-37)
Sec. 10-63. - Disposition of dead rabid animal.
When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid, or is suspected by a licensed veterinarian of being rabid, dies while under observation, the county rabies control officer shall immediately send the head of such animal to the state health department for pathological examination.
(Code 1975, § 5-103; Code 1985, § 6-38)
Sec. 10-64. - Area-wide quarantine authorized.
When one or both reports provided for by this article give a positive diagnosis of rabies, the county rabies control officer shall recommend a city-wide quarantine for such period of time as the rabies control officer shall deem proper, and while such quarantine is in effect no animal shall be taken or allowed upon the streets or off the property of the owner, nor shall any animal be taken or shipped from the city without written permission of such officer.
(Code 1975, § 5-104; Code 1985, § 6-39)
Sec. 10-65. - Extension of quarantine.
If there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended at the discretion of the county rabies control officer.
(Code 1975, § 5-105; Code 1985, § 6-40)
Sec. 10-66. - Destruction, isolation of bitten animals.
(a)
Unvaccinated dogs and cats that are bitten by a proven rabid animal shall be destroyed immediately. If the owner is unwilling to have this done, such animals must be confined and quarantined for six months by the owner or at the owner's expense. One month before release, i.e., five months after being bitten, the animal shall be vaccinated against rabies. If the animal was vaccinated at least one month before the exposure, it shall be revaccinated immediately and placed in strict confinement for at least 30 days by the owner or at the owner's expense.
(b)
Any cattle or livestock known to have been bitten by rabid animals shall be destroyed immediately. If the owner is unwilling to have this done, the animal shall be vaccinated and placed in strict confinement for six months, by the owner or at the owner's expense.
(c)
Where quarantine or confinement is carried out pursuant to the foregoing provisions, such quarantine or confinement shall conform to the requirements of section 10-61.
(Code 1975, § 5-106; Code 1985, § 6-41; Ord. No. 85-240, § 1, 11-12-1985)
Sec. 10-67. - Killing, removal of rabid animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, or cause to be killed any rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal which has bitten a human, except as provided in this article, nor shall any person remove such animal from the city limits without the written permission of the county rabies control officer.
(Code 1975, § 5-107; Code 1985, § 6-42)
Sec. 10-68. - Disposition of rabid animals.
The county rabies control officer shall direct the disposition of any animal found to be infected with rabies.
(Code 1975, § 5-108; Code 1985, § 6-43)
Sec. 10-69. - Surrender of carcass.
The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall, upon demand, be surrendered to the county rabies control officer.
(Code 1975, § 5-109; Code 1985, § 6-44)
Sec. 10-70. - Reports of bite cases.
It shall be the duty of every physician or other practitioner to report to the county rabies control officer the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with such other information as may be required by such officer for the purpose of rabies control.
(Code 1975, § 5-110; Code 1985, § 6-45)
Sec. 10-71. - Responsibilities of veterinarians.
It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the county rabies control officer his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her as a rabies suspect. The county rabies control officer shall furnish full information for each suspect to all licensed veterinarians.
(Code 1975, § 5-111; Code 1985, § 6-46)
Secs. 10-72—10-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - LIVESTOCK

Sec. 10-101. - Swine prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the city any live pigs or hogs at any time.
(Code 1975, § 5-42; Code 1985, § 6-61)
Sec. 10-102. - Keeping of certain animals restricted.
No livestock, shall be kept, fed or used within the city limits. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the riding of saddle horses on private property, or the riding of saddle horses and the drawing of horse or mule drawn vehicles on the public streets and ways of the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-43; Code 1985, § 6-62)
Sec. 10-103. - Keeping of domestic fowl restricted.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any persons to have, store, keep, pen or possess, for commercial purposes, trade purposes or resale, any chickens, geese, turkeys, ducks or other domestic fowl in the city within 25 feet, in any direction, of any dwelling house or place or building occupied as a residence or office by any person. The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply in the city limits when domestic fowl are kept on a constructed and graded-to-drain concrete or other impervious flooring and the same is maintained uncracked in a sanitary condition.
(b)
When any chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys or other domestic fowl are enclosed in pens, coops, or the like in the city, for commercial purposes or trade purposes or for resale, such coop or pen shall be built at least 25 inches from the ground with a hardware cloth floor and a mesh of not less than one-half inch. Underneath the hardware floor and mesh shall be placed, of equal length and width with such coop or pen, a removable pan or metal vessel or a pan or vessel of tongue and groove flooring, which shall be kept and maintained at all times in a sanitary and clean condition.
(Code 1975, § 5-44; Code 1985, § 6-63)
Sec. 10-104. - Driving animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or assist in driving any horse, mule or cow or any number of either or all through, on or in any of the streets or alleys of the city without having the same securely haltered, roped or otherwise fastened together and held by one or more persons.
(Code 1975, § 5-11; Code 1985, § 6-64)
Sec. 10-105. - Storage of feed.
It shall be unlawful for any person to store anywhere within the city any feed for chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, or other domestic fowl or horses or cows unless the same shall be stored or kept in a ratproof container or a container not accessible to rats. This section shall not apply to wholesale and retail dealers of such feed for sale or resale.
(Code 1975, § 5-46; Code 1985, § 6-65)
Sec. 10-106. - Manure pits; hauling manure through streets, etc.
(a)
Every person owning, operating or controlling the use of any building or part of a building or any place within the city who keeps one or more head of livestock shall maintain in connection therewith a bin or pit in which manure shall be placed pending removal. Such bin or pit shall be located at a point most remote from any dwelling or other structure owned or occupied by others than the owner of the premises mentioned and shall likewise be placed at a point most remote on the premises from any street or avenue.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any such person to hold manure on such person's premises in bins or pits after two days from date of written notice from the city to remove the same. Any person may use manure upon his or her premises for the purpose of enriching his or her own ground or for any other use to which manure can properly be put when the same is not offensive or unsanitary. Any person may remove manure from bins, pits or other places where deposited as required by this section for any purpose where such manure has not become offensive or unsanitary.
(c)
All equipment used for the removal of manure shall be so constructed as to prevent the same from being dropped or spilled along the streets or otherwise being dropped, spilled or scattered along the streets or public places within the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-47; Code 1985, § 6-66)
Secs. 10-107—10-125. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - DOGS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-126. - Inoculation of dogs required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog over the age of three months within the city unless such dog has been inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian.
(Code 1975, § 5-61; Code 1985, § 6-91)
Sec. 10-127. - Time, proof of inoculation.
It shall be the duty of every owner to ensure that dogs are inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian prior to March 31 of each year and that the current county rabies tag is securely fastened around the dog's neck and worn by the dog at all times.
(Code 1975, § 5-62; Code 1985, § 6-92)
Sec. 10-128. - Unlawful use of tag.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog a rabies tag issued for another dog.
(Code 1975, § 5-63; Code 1985, § 6-93)
Sec. 10-129. - Duplicate tags.
It shall be the duty of every owner to obtain duplicate rabies tags from veterinarians to replace lost tags.
(Code 1975, § 5-64; Code 1985, § 6-94)
Sec. 10-130. - Female dogs in heat to be confined.
No unspayed female dog, while such dog is in season, shall be allowed to remain upon the premises of the owner unless kept in adequate enclosure, nor shall any such dog be allowed to be upon the streets or other public or private places of the city.
(Code 1975, § 5-9; Code 1985, § 6-95)
Secs. 10-131—10-159. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - DANGEROUS DOG CONTROL

Sec. 10-160. - Short title.
This division may also be known as the "Dangerous Dog Ordinance."
(Code 1985, § 6-96; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-161. - Intent.
This article shall clearly define local government responsibility, as well as limit the administrative and liability burdens upon the city with regard to potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs. This article is authorized by O.C.G.A. § 4-8-20 et seq.
(Code 1985, § 6-97; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-162. - Designation of a dog control officer.
The chief of police of the city police department shall be designated the dog control officer for purposes of this Dangerous Dog Control Ordinance. It shall be the dog control officer's duty to investigate and classify as appropriate suspected, dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs. However, the dog control officer's duty of investigation and classification rises only when a report of an occurrence warranting such classification occurs in the corporate limits of the city from any law enforcement agency, rabies control office, county or state board of health, Albany Humane Society, or a written report by a citizen of the city.
(Code 1985, § 6-99; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-163. - Responsibilities of dog control officer.
(a)
Upon receiving a report that a dog has acted in a dangerous, or potentially dangerous manner, the dog control officer shall investigate the allegations and make a determination as to the truthfulness of said allegations. After concluding the investigation, the dog control officer shall:
(1)
Decide the dog should not be classified as dangerous or potentially dangerous;
(2)
Classify the dog as potentially dangerous; or
(3)
Classify the dog as dangerous.
(b)
In the event that the dog control officer classifies the dog under investigation as "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous," the dog control officer must notify the owner by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall include a summary of the reason for which the animal has been classified and provide the owners with a form to request a hearing to contest the classification within 15 days of the notice date. If no hearing is requested, the dog's classification goes into effect on the 15th day.
(c)
When the animal control board receives a request for a hearing it shall schedule such hearing within 30 days after receiving the request. The animal control board shall notify the owner in writing, certified mail, return receipt requested, of the date, time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the owner at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner shall be given the opportunity to testify and present evidence. In addition thereto, the animal control board shall receive such other evidence and testimony as it may find reasonably necessary to make a determination either to sustain, modify or overrule the dog control officer's classification of the dog. Within ten days after the date of the hearing, the animal control board shall notify the owner in writing by certified mail of its determination. In the event that the animal control board pursuant to the foregoing hearing classifies the dog as "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous," the effective date of such classification shall be the date of the notice.
(Code 1985, § 6-100; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-164. - Animal owner responsibilities.
(a)
The owner of any dog which has been classified as "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous" must register said dog with the dog control officer of the city on an annual basis. Failure to register a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog on an annual basis shall be grounds for confiscation of the dog by the dog control officer. In order to obtain registration or re-registration of such an animal, owners must present or provide evidence to the dog control officer of the following requirements:
(1)
Proof of proper enclosure adequate to confine the dog, i.e., a well ventilated pen, fence, or structure that prevents the dog from escaping and prevents children from coming into contact with the dog. The enclosure must also protect the dog from the elements and be at least 200 square feet per dog;
(2)
Proof that a uniform warning sign is present on the owner's premises. The warning sign may be obtained from the department of natural resources and shall be available through the dog control officer. Dog owner signs must conform to the department of natural resources uniform design;
(3)
For dangerous dogs only, a policy of insurance in an amount equal to the minimum required under state law, issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in the state insuring the owner of the dangerous dog against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog; and
(4)
For dangerous dog only, a surety bond in an amount equal to the minimum required under state law, issued by a surety company authorized to transact business in the state, payable to any person or persons injured by the dangerous dog.
(5)
In the event an owner fails to comply with the provision of section 10-164(a)(1), (2), (3) or (4) within 15 days of the date upon which the dog(s) was deemed a dangerous dog by the animal control board, the dog(s) shall be released to an animal shelter or euthanized in an expeditious and humane manner. The owner(s) shall be required to pay the cost of housing and euthanasia.
(b)
A person applying for registration or re-registration of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall pay an annual registration fee. Any such dog that has been spayed/neutered may be registered or re-registered for an annual registration fee. The amounts of the annual registration and re-registration fees for dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs and dogs that have been spayed/neutered shall be established by ordinance or resolution of the board of city commissioners, from time to time, and made available for public examination in the office of the city clerk.
(c)
Owners of classified dogs must notify the dog control officer within eight hours if the dog is on the loose, unconfined, has attacked a person, has died, or been sold or donated. If the dog has been sold or donated, the owner shall also provide the dog control officer and Albany Humane Society with the name, address, and telephone number of the new owner of the dog. Failure to so notify the dog control officer and Albany Humane Society shall be grounds for confiscation of said dog.
(d)
An owner of a classified dog shall keep the dog in a proper enclosure unless the dog is on a secure leash, is walked or taken to or from the pen by a responsible individual. Nothing contained herein shall permit an owner to use a chain or muzzle as a permanent means of confinement. Violation of this provision, in addition to constituting a misdemeanor, shall be grounds for confiscation of the dog.
(e)
An owner of a classified dog shall notify the dog control officer when moving from the jurisdiction of the city. This notice must be in writing. Failure of the owner to comply with this provision, in addition to being a misdemeanor hereunder shall be grounds for confiscation of the dog.
(f)
Any owner of a dog which has been classified as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, or similarly classified in another jurisdiction within this state, must notify the dog control officer of the city within ten days of residency. Violation of this provision, in addition to being a misdemeanor, shall be grounds for confiscation of the dog.
(g)
Any owner of a dog meeting the classification requirements hereunder moving into the city from outside the state must notify the dog control officer within 30 days of residency. Violation of this provision, in addition to being a misdemeanor, shall be grounds for confiscation of the dog.
(h)
The dog control officer is authorized to make whatever inquiry is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this division.
(i)
Issuance of a certificate of registration or the renewal of a certificate of registration by the dog control officer does not warrant or guarantee that the requirements specified in this division are maintained by the owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog on a continuous basis following the date of the issuance of the initial certificate of registration or following the date of any annual renewal of such certificate.
(Code 1985, § 6-101; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003; Ord. No. 21-135, § 1, 11-4-2021)
State Law reference— Owners of dogs designated as "dangerous dogs" required to have a surety bond of at least $15,000.00 or a policy of insurance of at least $15,000.00 against liability for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog, O.C.G.A. § 4-8-25(c).
Sec. 10-165. - Confiscation of dogs; grounds; disposition.
(a)
A dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by the dog control officer or by a law enforcement officer if the:
(1)
Owner of the dog does not secure the liability insurance or bond required by this division;
(2)
Dog is not validly registered as required by this division;
(3)
Dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
(4)
Dog is outside a proper enclosure in violation of this division.
(b)
A potentially dangerous dog shall be confiscated in the same manner as a dangerous dog if the dog is:
(1)
Not validly registered as required by this division;
(2)
Not maintained in a proper enclosure; or
(3)
Outside a proper enclosure in violation of this division.
(c)
Any dog that has been confiscated under the provisions of this section shall be returned to its owner upon proper proof to the animal control board that the owner has complied with the provisions of this division and upon the payment of the costs to the city for confiscating and boarding the dog. In the event the owner has not complied with the provisions of this division within four days of the date the dog was confiscated, said dog shall be placed into custody of the Albany Humane Society for disposition as it deems proper. The costs for confiscating, boarding, and disposal of said dog shall remain the responsibility of the owner of the dog.
(Code 1985, § 6-102; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-166. - Limits of city liability.
It is the intent of this division that the owner of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog shall be solely liable for any injury to or death of a person caused by such dog. Under no circumstances shall the city or any of its employees or officials which enforce or fail to enforce the provisions of this division be held liable for any damages to any person who suffers an injury inflicted by a dog that has been identified as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog that has been reported to the proper authorities as being a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog that a dog control officer has failed to identify as a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or by a dog which has been identified as being a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog but has not been kept or restrained in the manner described in this division, or by a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog whose owner has not maintained insurance coverage or a surety bond as required in this division.
(Code 1985, § 6-103; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Sec. 10-167. - Violations; penalty.
(a)
The owner of a dangerous dog who violates this division or whose dog is subject to confiscation under this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition to any confinement that might be imposed for a conviction under this division, for the second conviction a fine of not less than $750.00 shall be imposed and for a third or subsequent conviction a fine of not less than $1,000.00 shall be imposed.
(b)
The owner of a potentially dangerous dog who violates this division or whose potentially dangerous dog is subject to confiscation under this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition to any confinement that might be imposed for a conviction under this division, for a second conviction a fine of not less than $300.00 shall be imposed and for a third or subsequent conviction a fine of not less than $500.00 shall be imposed.
(c)
In addition to the penalties for violations as hereinabove set out, the dangerous dog involved shall be immediately confiscated by the dog control officer or by a law enforcement officer and placed in quarantine for the property length of time as determined by the dog control board, and thereafter, the dangerous dog shall be destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(d)
In lieu of the fines in subsections (a) or (b) of this section, the owner may surrender the dog to the Albany Humane Society; or if the dog has been spayed or neutered, the animal control board may reduce the fine as it deems appropriate.
(e)
No owner of a dangerous dog shall be held criminally liable under this division for injuries inflicted by said owner's dog to any human being over the age of five while both the dog and victim are on the dog owner's property.
(Code 1985, § 6-104; Ord. No. 03-137, § 1, 11-25-2003)
Secs. 10-168—10-179. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - IMPOUNDMENT

Sec. 10-180. - Authority.
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to seize and impound all animals found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter within this city, whether such animal shall be in the immediate presence of its owner or custodian or otherwise.
(Code 1975, § 5-81; Code 1985, § 6-106; Ord. No. 82-158, § 3, 6-30-1982)
Sec. 10-181. - Election of enforcement procedure.
When an animal is impounded and its ownership is known, the animal control officer may either deliver the animal into the custody of the Albany Area Humane Society for impoundment, or cite the owner to appear in the municipal court to answer to charges of the violation of this chapter, or both.
(Code 1975, § 5-82; Code 1985, § 6-107; Ord. No. 82-158, § 4, 6-30-1982)
Sec. 10-182. - Custody of impounded animals.
The city manager is authorized to contract with the Albany Area Humane Society or other organization having an interest in the humane treatment and disposition of animals for the care, custody, adoption and disposition of all animals impounded under this chapter. It shall be unlawful for anyone to interfere with the operation of any facility maintained for the impoundment of animals under contract with the city, or to remove from such facility without the consent of the operator of the facility any animal kept there, or to resist, hinder, interfere with or molest any agent or employee or member of any organization operating such facility in the performance of his or her duty.
(Code 1985, § 6-108; Ord. No. 82-158, § 5(5-21), 6-30-1982)
