Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
ARTICLE A. - PENSIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 1154. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets. Certain sections of the 1943 Act began with the prefatory language "[b]e it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same," or "[b]e it further enacted that." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from this printing.

Sec. A-1. - Authority to grant.
The City of Albany, Georgia, shall have the power and authority to grant a pension to employees in any, each, and all departments of the City of Albany.
All employees of Artesian City Federal Credit Union or its successors, and all employees of Albany Metropolitan Planning commission or its successors, shall be eligible to participate in the City of Albany pension trust upon the same terms and conditions as employees of the City of Albany, upon the condition that Artesian City Federal Credit Union or its successors and Albany Metropolitan Planning commission or its successors pay into the pension trust on behalf of each of its respective employees participating in the pension trust an amount equal to the amount which the City of Albany from time to time pays on behalf of its own employees. Persons who are employees of Artesian City Federal Credit Union on September 1, 1974, shall be eligible for participation as if they were first employed on September 1, 1974, and their rights, benefits and obligations shall be measured and determined from that date. Employees of Albany Metropolitan Planning commission are eligible for participation from the date of employment, as in the case of regular city employees.
(1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4762, § 1; 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 5176, § 1; Ord. No. 2080, § I, 8-13-1974; Ord. No. 81-104, § 1, 1-12-1981)
Sec. A-2. - Persons entitled to pension.
The City of Albany, Georgia, shall have the power to grant pensions or other compensation to employees and/or to the dependents of any employee in any, each, and all departments thereof, where and when such employees loses his life or health or becomes totally and permanently disabled as the result of injuries incurred while actually engaged in the performance of his duties in the employ of said City of Albany, Georgia.
Employees of the City of Albany, who, while qualified and participating in the City of Albany Pension Fund, are transferred to and become employees of Dougherty County or a political subdivision within Dougherty County pursuant to a plan of cooperation, division and/or sharing of functions and responsibilities between the City of Albany and Dougherty County or such political subdivision, shall remain fully "qualified to participate in the Pension Fund of the City of Albany, Georgia, for the duration of such employment, subject to the laws, rules and regulations governing the Pension Fund, and subject to the condition that Dougherty County and/or the political subdivision in Dougherty County employing such transferred employee of the City of Albany, shall pay into the Pension Fund, on behalf of any such employee electing to continue participation in the Pension Fund, an amount equal to the amount which the City of Albany from time to time pays on behalf of its own employees.
(1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4765, § 1; Ord. No. 1998, § I, 3-12-1974)
Sec. A-3. - Power to determine amount, time of payment, etc.
The City of Albany, Georgia, by proper Ordinance or Ordinances, passed by the governing authority of said City, except as otherwise provided in this Act, is hereby vested with full and complete power, authority, and discretion to determine when and to what amount of pension is to be paid, and to determine any and all facts relating to the granting, refusal, suspension, or revocation of pensions, compensation, or other gratuities under this Act.
Sec. A-4. - Board of trustees; rules and regulations.
The City of Albany, Georgia, is empowered to establish, to serve without pay, a board of Trustees whose duty it shall be to manage the pension fund. This board shall make all rules and regulations for the payment of said funds to those entitled to receive them, not in conflict with this Act or any lawful ordinances passed in pursuance thereof.
The board shall, on or before December 31 of each year hereafter, commencing December 31, 1972, file with the Clerk of the City of Albany a financial report on the condition of the pension fund, which report shall remain on file available to all of the employees of the City of Albany and other interested persons.
The board shall cause an actuarial survey, examination, and report of the condition of said fund to be made from time to time as often as said board shall deem necessary, but in no event no less often than every two (2) years.
(1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 47), p. 2027, § 1; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 964), p. 2469, § 1)
Sec. A-5. - Tax levy; refunds.
The City of Albany is authorized and empowered to levy a tax on all taxable property in said City ad valorem, and to use the proceeds from said tax and all other available funds of the City for the purpose of paying pensions and other benefits under the pension system, and for making the payments and contributions into the pension fund as hereinafter provided. The City of Albany is authorized to contribute to the pension fund an amount equal to 8.9% of the gross earnings of those employees participating in the pension plan, and in addition is authorized and empowered to make a contribution each year to said pension fund not to exceed $50,000.00 in any calendar year, the amount within said limits to be determined by the board of city commissioners of the said City; but if no such contribution is made in any year, the amount which said City may contribute to said fund may be, in the discretion of the board of commissioners, accumulated. All of said funds shall be turned over to the City Treasurer, and shall be kept in a separate fund and disbursed under the terms of this Chapter, and all valid ordinances passed and adopted pursuant thereto; provided, however, that said funds and investments may also be from time to time turned over to and placed in the custody of any bank or trust company which is, at that time, serving as fiscal agent or expert for the City.
The City of Albany shall also be authorized to refund to all persons who are employed and eligible to participate in the pension plan on the effective date of this Act, and to all retired employees who are living on the effective date of this Act, all contributions made by said employees and retired living employees to the pension fund, together with such interest thereon as shall be fixed and determined by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany.
(1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 27), p. 2098, § 1; 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 47), p. 2027, § 3; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 795), p. 2455, § 1; 1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. 6), p. 2016, § 1; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 376), p. 2942, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4765, § 1(2); 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 5189, § 1; Ord. No. 1998, § I, 3-12-1974; Ord. No. 81-174, § 1, 7-14-1981)
Sec. A-6. - Relation between city and employee.
This Act, or any Ordinance passed in pursuance thereof, shall not create a contractual relation between the City of Albany, Georgia, and any employee thereof. In case there shall at any time be less funds on hand than are needed to carry out the terms of this Act, the Actual funds on hand shall be prorated among the beneficiaries.
Sec. A-7. - Funds not subject to attachment, etc.
None of the funds herein mentioned shall be subject to attachment, garnishment, judgment, or other legal process; nor shall be assignable, but shall be paid to the beneficiary.
Sec. A-8. - Investment of excess funds.
Money in the pension fund which in the judgment of the board of Trustees is not needed for immediate use may be invested and reinvested in such properties, bonds, stocks, contracts, or other securities as shall from time to time be deemed advisable by the board, without regard to any law now or hereafter in force limiting investments by trustees. All such properties, bonds, stocks, contracts or other securities may, at the discretion of the board, be placed in the hands of a custodian for safekeeping and accounting. The board of Trustees may from time to time change said investments of said funds, and to this end may make sales of any investment privately, without advertisement and without the necessity of any order of court, and upon such terms as the board deems proper.
The board of Trustees may employ from time to time investment counselors, money managers, financial advisors, and/or other agents to assist in the performance of the duties of the board of Trustees. The fees of any such investment counselors, money managers, financial advisors, and/or other agents shall be charged to the fund. The board may give such investment counselors, money managers, financial advisors, and/or other agents discretionary or non-discretionary powers, and may give to them, subject to such limitations and restrictions as the board shall establish, full power and authority to make the same investments as said board is authorized by this section to make.
The board of Trustees shall be authorized to employ from time to time agents to assist in the performance of the duties of the board of Trustees. The board of Trustees shall have the power to authorize any such agent to transfer all or part of the Pension Fund to any group trust or pooled fund maintained by such agent for the purpose of pooling the funds of pension and profit sharing plans managed by such agent and such portion of the Pension Fund so transferred shall be held subject to all the terms and conditions of the Declaration of Trust or other instrument creating such group trust. The board of Trustees shall have the power to direct the agent from time to time to withdraw from any such group trust or pooled fund all or such part of the Pension Fund as the board of Trustees may deem advisable. The board of Trustees is authorized to execute, in connection with the transfer of the Pension Fund to any group trust any Declaration of Trust, agency agreement, or other agreement or instrument necessary to accomplish that purpose consistent with the provisions of this section.
(1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 47), p. 2027, § 2; 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 964), p. 2469, § 2; 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4758, § 1; 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4765, § 1(3); Ord. No. 2038, § I, 5-14-1974; Ord. No. 1998, § I, 3-12-1974)
Editor's note— 1975 Ga. Laws, p. 4765, § 1(3) (Ord. No. 1998, § I, 3-12-1974) enacted a new paragraph to be placed at the end of section 8 of the original Act as amended. However, due to the general repealing provision in the amending ordinance the amending provision operated to repeal and replace the last paragraph of section 8.
Sec. A-9. - Definition of "employee."
The term "employee" as used in this Act shall be deemed to embrace and include all persons performing regular service in the employ of the City of Albany, Georgia, in any, each, and all departments thereof, but the term "employee" as used in this Act shall not apply to any member of the board of city commissioners nor to any officer elected by the people, nor to the City Physician, City Attorney, City Recorder, members of the board of City Registrars, members of the board of Tax Assessors, members of the board of Water, Gas and Light commission, nor to any casual or part time employees.
Sec. A-10. - Intention of Act.
The intention of this Act is to authorize and empower the City of Albany, Georgia, through its governing authority to provide a pension system for employees of such City, and to prescribe by Ordinance or Ordinances the conditions and methods by which the pension system shall be handled, and to prescribe all of the regulations with respect to same not in conflict with the provisions of this Act.
Sec. A-11. - Insurance of pension payments.
Said City of Albany may, in its discretion, in providing said pension system, insure such pension payments by purchasing group annuity and disability insurance.
Sec. A-12. - Substitution of Federal Social Security Act in lieu of pension plan.
In the event the present Federal Society Security Act is amended to include municipal employees, then the said City of Albany may, in its discretion, substitute, in whole or in part, said Social Security payments by the City and employees, and the benefits accruing therefrom, in lieu of said pension plan as outlined herein.
Sec. A-13. - Constitutionality.
Should any section, paragraph, or clause of this Act be declared unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder of this Act shall not be affected thereby.
Sec. A-14. - Act of 1939 repealed.
From and after the passage of this Act that the Act of the General Assembly approved March 23, 1939, (Georgia Laws 1939, pages 814, et seq.) known as an Act to authorize the City of Albany, Georgia, to furnish pensions, etc., be and the same is hereby specifically repealed.
Editor's note— Section 15 of this Act provided for the repeal of all conflicting laws.
Sec. A-15. - Transfer of interests of newly employed city managers to city pension fund; authority of board of commissioners to give credit for prior service.
The board of commissioners of the City of Albany may from time to time by ordinance provide for the transfer to the City of Albany Pension Fund of the interest or equity of any newly employed city manager in any and all other employee pension trusts or funds, public or private, upon such terms and conditions as said board shall determine to be appropriate. Said board shall also have the power to vest in such newly elected city manager credit for prior years of public service equal to the total number of years of such service, or any part thereof, either upon such transfer, or upon such other terms and conditions as the board shall determine to be appropriate.
(1981 Ga. Laws, p. 5048, § 1; Ord. No. 80-117, § 1, 2-26-1980)
Editor's note— 1981 Ga. Laws, pp. 5048, 5049, § 1, (Ord. No. 80-117, § 1, 2-26-1980) purported to amend the Charter and 1943 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), p. 1154, by adding an amendatory provision. Placement of the provision at this location and designation of it as Section A-15, was at the discretion of the editor.
ARTICLE B. - BONDED DEBT INCREASE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 363), page 7. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the ballot provision, jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets. Certain sections of the 1937 Act began with the prefatory language "[b]e it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same," or "[b]e it further enacted that." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from this printing.

Sec. B-1. - Amending Constitution.
Paragraph 1, of Section 7, of Article 7, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, as now amended, is hereby further amended by adding at the end of said paragraph the following, to-wit:
Except that the City of Albany, Georgia, from time to time as necessary for the purpose of purchasing, erecting, building, repairing, constructing and/or maintaining (either, any or all of them) a water-works system, including all necessary pipe-lines, pumping-stations, reservoirs, or anything else that may be necessary, convenient or proper for the building, constructing, repairing, maintaining and/or operating a water-works system for the City of Albany, may incur a bonded indebtedness, in addition to and separate from the amount of debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding the sum of four hundred thousand ($400,000.00) dollars, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of said city voting at an election or elections to be held as may now or may hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City of Albany. Provided said two-thirds so voting shall be a majority of the registered voters.
So that said paragraph of the Constitution, when amended, shall read as follows, to-wit:
Paragraph 1. The debt hereafter incurred by any county, municipal corporation or political division of this State except as in this Constitution provided for, shall never exceed seven per centum of the assessed value of all the taxable property therein and no such county, municipality or division shall incur any new debt except for a temporary loan or loans, to supply casual deficiencies of revenue, not to exceed one fifth of one per centum of the assessed value of the taxable property therein, without the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters thereof, voting at an election for that purpose to be held as prescribed by law: Provided, said two-thirds so voting shall be a majority of the registered voters, and provided further that all laws, charter provisions and ordinances heretofore passed or enacted providing special registration of the voters of counties, municipal corporations and other political divisions of this State to pass upon the issuance of bonds by such counties, municipal corporations and other political divisions are hereby declared to be null and void; and the General Assembly shall hereafter have no power to pass or enact any law providing for such special registration, but the validity of any all bond issues by such counties, municipal corporations or other political divisions made prior to January 1st, 1918, shall not be affected hereby. But any city the debt of which does not exceed seven per centum of the assessed value of the taxable property at the time of the adoption of this Constitution may be authorized by law to increase at any time the amount of said debt three per centum upon such assessed valuation; except that the City of Augusta, from time to time, as necessary for the purpose of protection against flood, may incur a bonded indebtedness upon its power-producing canal and municipal water works, in addition to the debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding fifty per centum of the combined value of such properties to be fixed as may be prescribed by law, but said valuation not to exceed a figure five percent on which shall represent the net revenue per annum produced by the two such properties together at the time of said valuation, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of said city at an election or elections for that purpose to be held as may now or may hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City Council of Augusta. Except that the City of West Point, from time to time as may be necessary for the purpose of protection against floods, may incur a bonded indebtedness in addition to and separate from the amount of debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding the sum of seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of such city at an election or elections to be held as may now or hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City of West Point. Except that the City of LaGrange, from time to time as necessary for the purpose of repairing, purchasing or constructing waterworks system, including all necessary pipe-line, pumping-stations, reservoirs, or anything else that may be necessary for the building, or constructing or operating a waterworks system for the City of LaGrange, may incur a bonded indebtedness, in addition to and separate from the amount of debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding the sum of five hundred thousand ($500,000.00) dollars, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of such city at an election or elections to be held as may be now or may hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City of LaGrange. Except that the City of Cornelia, from time to time as necessary for the purpose of repairing, purchasing, or constructing a water-works system for the City of Cornelia, may incur a bonded indebtedness, in addition to and separate from the amount of debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand ($250,000.00) dollars, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of said city at an election or elections to be held as may now or hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City of Cornelia. The city authorities of the City of Cornelia shall set aside and designate each year all of the net revenue derived from the operation of its water-works system, when constructed under the provisions of this Act, for the purpose of paying the interest and retiring its bonded indebtedness incurred under this Act. Except that the City of Albany, Georgia, from time to time as necessary for the purpose of purchasing, erecting, building, repairing, constructing and/or maintaining (either, any or all of them) a water-works system, including all necessary pipe-lines, pumping-stations, reservoirs, or anything else that may be necessary, convenient or proper for the building, constructing, repairing, maintaining and/or operating a water-works system for the City of Albany, may incur a bonded indebtedness, in addition to and separate from the amount of debts hereinbefore in this paragraph allowed to be incurred, to an amount in the aggregate not exceeding the sum of four hundred thousand ($400,000.00) dollars, and such indebtedness not to be incurred except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of said city voting at an election or elections to be held as may now or may hereafter be prescribed by law for the incurring of new debts by said City of Albany. Provided said two-thirds so voting shall be a majority of the registered voters.
Editor's note— Local Constitutional amendment 1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 363), p. 7 was specifically continued in force and effect by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 157), p. 3837.
ARTICLE C. - POLICE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1963 Ga. Laws (Act No. 292), p. 2981. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the ballot provision, jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. The same system of capitalization and expression of numbers in text has been used as it appears in the Code of Ordinances. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets. Certain sections of the 1963 Act began with the prefatory language "[t]hat from and after the passage of this Act," or "[b]e it further enacted that." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from this printing.

Sec. C-1. - Blanket bond.
The board of commissioners of the City of Albany may at their option accept a blanket official bond covering the marshal or chief of police and all of the other officers and personnel of the police department. Said bond shall be in an amount acceptable to said board, payable to the mayor and his successors in office, for the benefit of the city and for the use and benefit of the public, to secure and indemnify the city and public for any loss or damage occasioned by reason of their default, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance or negligent conduct. Such bond shall be filed with the city clerk, safely kept by her and subject to inspection at all times during office hours, by the public.
Sec. C-2. - Additional bonds.
The amount of said bond may be fixed and determined upon the basis of the rank of such members of the personnel of the city police department as are covered by said bond. An individual bond may be required of the marshal or chief of police, with the remainder of the personnel of the department being covered by the blanket bond. The premium for the issuance of said bond or bonds, shall be paid by the City of Albany out of the general funds of said city.
Sec. C-3. - Intent.
The provisions of this Act are intended to be cumulative of the existing provisions for bonds of the police officers and to provide an optional method for the bonding of such officers to be utilized at the pleasure of the board of city commissioners.
ARTICLE D. - JOINT BOARD OF REGISTRARS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1986 Ga. Laws (Act No. 846), p. 3831. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, or publication date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. D-1. - Creation.
Pursuant to the authority of Code Section 21-2-45 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-45], there is created and established in and for Dougherty County, Georgia, and the City of Albany, Georgia, the Joint County-Municipal board of Registration and Elections for Dougherty County and the City of Albany, in this Act called the "joint board."
Sec. D-2. - Members.
The joint board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of Dougherty County, and who shall be selected in the following manner:
(a)
One member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidates at the immediately preceding November general election received the largest number of votes in this state for members of the General Assembly, and one member shall be appointed by the chairperson of the county executive committee of the political party whose candidates at such election received the next largest number of such votes. Each of such appointments shall have been ratified by a majority of the members of each of such respective executive committees voting at a meeting duly called and held for such purposes. In the event any appointment is not ratified by the vote of a majority of the members of such executive committee at least 60 days immediately preceding the date on which such members are to take office, the members of the respective executive committees may elect such members by a two-thirds' majority of the membership of such executive committee at least 45 days immediately preceding the date on which such members are to take office; otherwise, such members shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this Act.
(b)
One member shall be appointed by the governing authority of Dougherty County, Georgia, and one member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the City of Albany and shall be a resident of the city.
(c)
The fifth member shall be selected by the other four members of the joint board immediately after they take office as members of the joint board. The five members of the joint board shall select a chairperson from among their membership, and the person selected as chairperson shall have a term as such of two years.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 1)
Sec. D-3. - Eligibility.
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the joint board during the term of such elective office, and the position of any such member shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
Sec. D-4. - Certification.
Except for the fifth member of the joint board who is to be selected by the other four members, no person shall take office as a member of the joint board unless the respective appointing or electing authority files an affidavit with the clerk of the Superior Court of Dougherty County no later than 30 days immediately preceding the date on which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed or elected and certifying that such member has been duly appointed or elected as provided in this Act. The four members, immediately after selecting the fifth member, shall file such an affidavit with the clerk stating the name and residential address of the fifth member. The clerk of the superior court shall record each such certification on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each appointed or elected member and shall provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by state general law for registrars. In the event any appointing or electing authority fails to make a regular appointment or election within the time specified in this section or in Section 2 of this Act or fails to make an interim appointment or election to fill a vacancy in the joint board within 90 days after the creation of such vacancy, such regular member or the member to fill such vacancy shall be appointed forthwith by the concurrence of the governing authorities of Dougherty County and the City of Albany.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 2)
Sec. D-5. - Terms.
The appointees of Dougherty County and of the City of Albany in office on January 1, 1999, shall serve for a term of office beginning January 1, 1999, and expiring at the end of December 31, 2000, and until the selection and qualification of their respective successors. The appointees of the political party executive committees who are in office on January 1, 1999, shall serve for a term of three years, with the appointment expiring at the end of December 31, 2001, and until the selection and qualification of their respective successors. The fifth member, selected by the other four members of the joint board immediately after they take office as members of the board in January of 1999, shall serve for a term of two years, with the appointment expiring at the end of December 31, 2000. Thereafter, all appointees shall serve for a term of two years beginning on the first day of January immediately following the expiration of the respective member's term of office and until a successor is appointed or selected and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as hereinafter provided. Successors shall be appointed in the manner specified in Section 2 of this Act for the appointment of the member who is being succeeded. Members shall be eligible to succeed themselves and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the respective appointing or selecting authority and to the clerk of the Superior Court of Dougherty County. Members shall also be subject to removal from the joint board at any time, for cause, after notice and hearing, by the appointing or selecting authority but otherwise in the same manner provided by general state law."
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 3; 1999 Ga. Laws (Act No. 165), p. 4234, § 1)
Sec. D-6. - Compensation.
The compensation of the members of the joint board shall be fixed and paid by the governing authority of Dougherty County.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 4)
Sec. D-7. - Vacancies.
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of that member's term of office, whether by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the respective appointing or electing authority shall appoint or elect a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is regularly appointed or elected.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 5)
Sec. D-8. - First appointments; oath.
The first members of the joint board shall take office on July 1, 1987. Before entering upon a member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by general state law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. D-9. - Duties and powers.
(a)
The joint board shall exercise all of the duties and powers with regard to the preparation, conduct, and administration of primaries and elections granted to and exercised by the Dougherty County board of Elections pursuant to the constitutional amendment proposed as Resolution No. 222 of the 1970 session of the General Assembly of Georgia (Ga. L. 1970, p. 1127) [1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 222), p. 1127], notwithstanding the repeal of said constitutional amendment, and to county and municipal election superintendents by general law and to municipal election superintendents by the charter of the City of Albany, Georgia. The joint board shall also exercise all of the powers, duties, and responsibilities granted to and incumbent upon a board of registrars by general law and to the Joint board of Registrars for Dougherty County and the City of Albany created by an Act approved April 10, 1971 (Ga. L. 1971, p. 3543) [1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), p. 3543]. It is the purpose and intention of this Act to grant to the joint board all powers, duties, and responsibilities relating to the registration of voters and to the preparation, conduct, and administration of primaries and elections in and for Dougherty County and the City of Albany.
(b)
With regard to the preparation for and conduct of primaries, in addition to the powers hereinbefore granted, the joint board shall have the power, duty, and responsibility of formulating, adopting, and promulgating rules and regulations, consistent with general state law and with rules and regulations of the state executive committee of each political party, governing the conduct of primaries, to the end that, insofar as practicable, all primaries shall be uniformly conducted by the joint board. Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county or municipal executive committee under the authority of general law, with regard to the conducting of primaries, shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the joint board.
(c)
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require or prohibit joint primaries or to require or prohibit the governing authority or any other public agency bearing any expense of conducting primaries not otherwise required by law.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 6)
Sec. D-10. - Poll workers.
The joint board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections, and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided the joint board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Sec. D-11. - Expenditures.
With the consent of the governing authorities of Dougherty County and the City of Albany, the joint board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets, and other material designed to inform adequately and instruct electors of the county with regard to elections.
Sec. D-12. - Transition.
Effective July 1, 1987, the Joint board of Registrars for Dougherty County and the City of Albany, created by an Act approved April 10, 1971 (Ga. L. 1971, p. 3543) [1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), p. 3543], and the Dougherty County board of Elections, created by constitutional amendment proposed by Resolution No. 222 at the 1970 session of the General Assembly of Georgia (Ga. L. 1970, p. 1127) [1970 Ga. Laws (Act No. 222), p. 1127], shall be abolished and prior thereto shall deliver to the joint board's supervisor of registration and elections, upon written request, custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, registrations, and facilities of every kind pertaining to the powers, duties, and responsibilities those abolished boards had immediately prior to their abolition.
Sec. D-13. - Directives entered on minutes.
The joint board shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
(1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 123), p. 4079, § 7)
Sec. D-14. - Offices; clerical assistants and other employees.
The governing authority of the county shall provide the joint board with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Sec. D-15. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by Chapters 2 and 3 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. unless otherwise clearly apparent.
Sec. D-16. - Effective dates.
Only for purposes of selecting the initial members of the joint board under this Act, this Act shall become effective January 1, 1987. For all other purposes, this Act shall become effective July 1, 1987.
Sec. D-17. - 1971 Act repealed.
An Act creating the Joint board of Registrars for Dougherty County and the City of Albany, approved April 10, 1971 (Ga. L. 1971, p. 3543) [1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 630), p. 3543], is repealed in its entirety.
ARTICLE E. - ALBANY-DOUGHERTY PAYROLL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 81), page 444. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the ballot provision, jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets. Certain sections of the 1958 Act began with the prefatory language "[t]hat from and after the passage of this Act," or "[b]e it further enacted that." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from this printing.

Sec. E-1. - Title.
This Act may be cited as the Albany Dougherty Payroll Development Authority.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 1)
Sec. E-2. - Created; members.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Albany Dougherty Payroll Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The Authority shall consist of five (5) members who shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Dougherty County, the mayor of the City of Albany, the president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce and two (2) appointed members who shall be residents of Dougherty County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Albany, and not less than thirty (30) years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations of members of the Authority not more than one (1) member shall be nominated from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the effective date of this Act the directors of the Albany Chamber of Commerce shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit four (4) or more names to the city and county. From such lists of nominees the commission of the City of Albany and the commissioners of Dougherty County each shall appoint one (1) member of the Authority. For the first appointments, the county shall appoint one (1) person for three (3) years, and the city shall appoint one (1) person for two (2) years. Thereafter all such terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for three (3) years. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city appointment, the city shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the county appointment, the county shall fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term, the city and the county shall make such appointments from four (4) nominations for each member to be appointed, which nominations are to be made by the directors of said Chamber of Commerce. The Authority shall elect a chairman, and a treasurer. The executive vice-president of the Albany Chamber of Commerce shall serve as secretary of the Authority without compensation. The members of this Authority shall be entitled to no compensation.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 2)
Sec. E-3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Albany Dougherty Payroll Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article V, Section IX, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of jobs and payrolls in industry, commerce, agriculture, and natural resources; the construction of buildings and plants or the acquisition of equipment for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures or equipment to private persons, firms or corporations.
The word 'Project' shall also include the acquisition, construction, improvement or modification of any property, real or personal used as air or water pollution control facilities which any federal, state, or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified as necessary for the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare. For purposes hereof, the term 'air pollution control facility' means any property used primarily to abate or control atmospheric pollution or contamination by removing, containing, altering, disposing or storing of atmospheric pollutants or contaminants if such facility is in furtherance of federal, state, or local standards for control of atmospheric pollution or contaminants. For the purpose hereof, the term `water pollution control facility' means any property used primarily to control water pollution by removing, storing, altering, or disposing of pollutants, contaminants, wastes or heat, including the necessary intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, pumping, power and other equipment, holding ponds, lagoons and their appurtenances, if such facility is in the furtherance of federal, state, or local standards for the control of water pollution."
The word `Project' shall also include the acquisition, construction, leasing, and equipping of new industrial facilities, and the improvement, modification, acquisition, expansion, modernization, leasing, equipping, and remodeling of existing industrial facilities located or to be located within the area of operation of the Authority.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expenses, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation; provided, however, that in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered a part of the cost of any project.
It is the intention here that funds the Authority may borrow and the interest paid thereon, for interim or temporary financing for any of the above-named items properly included in "cost of project" for the use of a designated project, pending the issue and validation of revenue anticipation bonds for such project, shall be considered a "cost of project" which may be paid or repaid from the proceeds of the revenue anticipation bonds authorized herein in section 6(l).
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 3; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 800), p. 2778, § 1)
Editor's note— 1975 Ga. Laws (Act No. 211), p. 3172, § 1, purported to enact a new paragraph at the end of subsection (b) of section 2 of the 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870. However, the editor has determined that a scrivener's error occurred regarding which section of the 1958 Act the new paragraph should be added, because section 2 of the 1958 Act does not contain any subsections while section 3 of the 1958 Act contains subsections (a)—(c). Therefore, the new paragraph added by the 1975 Act was placed at the end of subsection (c) of section 3, at the discretion of the editor. Moreover, 1979 Ga. Laws (Act No. 182), p. 3639, § 1, purported to enact a new paragraph at the end of subsection (b) of section 2 of the 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870. However, the editor has determined that a scrivener's error occurred regarding which section of the 1958 Act the new paragraph should be added, because section 2 of the 1958 Act does not contain any subsections while section 3 of the 1958 Act contains subsections (a)—(c). Therefore, the new paragraph added by the 1979 Act was placed at the end of subsection (c) of section 3, at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. E-4. - Contracts.
The County of Dougherty and the City of Albany are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the Authority as a public corporation.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 4)
Sec. E-5. - Quorum.
Any three (3) members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the Authority must be approved by not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 5)
Sec. E-6. - Powers.
The Authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold, and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts for periods of time not in excess of fifty (50) years.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of same or to dispose of same in any manner the Authority deems to its best advantage. If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Dougherty or the City of Albany; the governing authorities of Dougherty County and the City of Albany are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the Authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees, including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rental and sale of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand add to operate and manage projects and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue-anticipation certificates or bonds or any other income of the Authority, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing. It being the intention here that in addition to the pledge of revenue from any project for the payment of revenue anticipation bonds and for the benefit of the bondholders, the Authority is authorized to execute mortgages, deeds to secure debts, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient covering the property of any particular project as additional security for the bondholders of such project.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue-anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue-anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937, (Ga. L. 1937, pp. 761—774) [1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 513), p. 761], and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue-anticipation certificates.
(m)
To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the Authority. Such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the `Revenue Bond Law,' approved March 31, 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761) [1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 74), p. 3133], as now or hereafter amended. However, the interest rates of any such revenue bonds shall be fixed by the board of directors of the Authority and any limitations with respect to interest rates contained in said `Revenue Bond Law' shall not apply to revenue bonds issued under this subsection. The usury laws of the State of Georgia shall not apply to revenue bonds issued under this subsection. This authority shall be in addition to any other power of the Authority.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 6; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 800), p. 2778, § 2; 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 74), p. 3133, § 1)
Sec. E-7. - Additional powers.
The Authority is hereby specifically authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire land and to improve and develop same so as to make said land more desirable for industrial purposes. Such land acquisition and development may be undertaken by the Authority at any time whether or not there is at such time a prospective industry considering the purchase or lease of an industrial site in Dougherty County. Such land and improvements may be held by the Authority for any length of time it deems desirable, but any sale, lease or other disposition of same when made, shall be subject to the provisions of section 9 hereof.
The purposes of this Act are to develop and promote for the public good and general welfare trade, commerce, industry and employment opportunities and to promote the general welfare of the State. No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued by an Authority hereunder unless its board of directors shall adopt a resolution finding that the Project for which the bonds are to be issued will promote the foregoing objectives and will increase employment in such area, or will prevent a decrease in employment in such area. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirement, bonds may be issued to finance projects for air and water pollution control facilities by industry as hereinabove provided without a finding that the Project will increase employment or prevent a decrease in employment so long as any federal, state or local agency having jurisdiction in the premises shall have certified that the Project is necessary for the continued operation of the industry or industries which the same is to serve and is necessary for the public welfare.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 7)
Sec. E-8. - Gifts.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 8)
Sec. E-9. - Prohibited gifts.
All projects of the Authority shall be on a self-liquidating basis, and the Authority shall not make gifts, directly or indirectly, to any person, firm or corporation.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 9)
Sec. E-10. - Reverter clause.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Dougherty County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 10)
Sec. E-11. - Taxation.
All lands and improvements and personal property the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue-anticipation certificates issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 11)
Sec. E-12. - Debts.
The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Dougherty or the City of Albany.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 12)
Sec. E-13. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent auditor. The Authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Dougherty and the City of Albany, and shall publish same one time in all newspapers printed in Dougherty County.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 13)
Sec. E-14. - Construction.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Dougherty and the City of Albany and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 260), p. 2870, § 14)
ARTICLE F. - ALBANY-DOUGHERTY HOSPITAL AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 343), p. 3067. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. F-1. - Title.
The board of commissioners of Dougherty County may, by resolution, establish and change from time to time the number of members of the Albany-Dougherty Hospital Authority, their terms of office, the manner of appointment, the method of filling vacancies, and all other matters relative to the membership of the Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1013), p. 2573, § 1; 1978 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1130), p. 4136, § 1)
ARTICLE G. - ALBANY-DOUGHERTY INNER CITY AUTHORITY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 663), p. 4220. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the ballot provision, jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets. Certain sections of the 1977 Act began with the prefatory language "[t]hat from and after the passage of this Act," or "[b]e it further enacted that." At the editor's discretion, this prefatory language has been omitted from this printing.

Sec. G-1. - Creation of Authority.
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority which shall be an instrumentality and a public corporation of the State of Georgia. By that name, style, and title said Authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
Sec. G-2. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth herein below:
(a)
The term `Act' shall mean the Act of the General Assembly approved March 30, 1977 (Ga. Laws 1977, p. 4220), creating the Authority (as defined below), as now or hereafter amended.
(b)
The term `Authority' shall mean the Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority.
(c)
The terms `cost of the project' or `cost of any project' shall mean and shall include: All costs of acquisition (by purchase or otherwise), construction, installation, modification, renovation or rehabilitation of any project or any part of any project; all costs of real or personal property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project or for any facilities related thereto, including the cost of all land, estates for years, easements, rights, improvements, water rights, connections for utility services, fees, franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates, the cost of securing any such franchises, permits, approvals, licenses, or certificates and the cost of preparation of any application therefor and the cost of all fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, and other property used in or in connection with or necessary for any project; all financing charges and loan fees and all interest which accrues or is paid prior to and during the period of construction of a project and for one year after the completion of construction thereof; all costs of engineering, architectural and legal services and all expenses incurred by engineers, architects, and attorneys in connection with any project; all inspection expenses; all fees of fiscal agents, paying agents, trustees for bondholders under any trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument, all expenses incurred by any such fiscal agents, paying agents, and trustees, and all other costs and expenses incurred relative to the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project; all costs permitted under Section 6 of this Act; all expenses incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of any project; all costs of plans and specifications for any project; all costs of title insurance and examinations of title; repayment of any loans made for the advance payment of any part of any of the foregoing costs, including interest thereon and other expenses of such loans; administrative expenses of the Authority and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to any project or the financing thereof or the placing of any project in operation; and a fund or funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, or such other funds or reserves as the Authority may approve with respect to the financing and operation of any project and as may be authorized by any bond resolution, trust agreement, indenture of trust, or similar instrument pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the Authority may be authorized. Any cost, obligation, or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the Authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall entertainment or promotional expense be considered part of the cost of any project.
(d)
The term `project' shall mean and shall include the acquisition, construction, installation, modification, renovation, or rehabilitation of buildings, structures, facilities, and other improvements located or to be located within a project area, and the acquisition, installation, modification, renovation, rehabilitation, or furnishing of fixtures, machinery, equipment, furniture, and other property of any nature whatsoever used in or in connection with any such building, structure, or other improvement, all for the essential public purpose of the redevelopment of any project area. A project may be for any industrial, commercial, business, office, public, or other use, provided that a majority of the members of the Authority determine, by a resolution duly adopted, that the project and such use thereof would further the redevelopment of the project areas and the public purpose of this Act.
(e)
The terms `project area' or `project areas' shall mean any slum or blighted area or areas within those urban, central city, or downtown portions of Dougherty County, Georgia, selected by the Authority for redevelopment or improvement pursuant to the authority and provisions of this Act.
(f)
The terms `revenue bonds' and `bonds' shall mean any bonds of the Authority which are authorized to be issued under the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia, including refunding bonds.
(g)
The term `slum or blighted area' shall mean any area in which there is a predominance of buildings or improvements, whether residential or nonresidential, which by reason of dilapidation, deterioration, age or obsolescence, inadequate provision for ventilation, light, air, sanitation, or open spaces, high density of population and overcrowding, or existence of conditions which endanger life or property by fire and other causes, or any combination of such factors, is conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant mortality, juvenile delinquency, or crime and is detrimental to the public health, safety, morals, or welfare, or any area which by reason of the presence of:
(i)
A substantial number of slum, deteriorated, or deteriorating structures;
(ii)
Predominance of defective or inadequate street layout;
(iii)
Faulty lot layout in relation to size, adequacy, accessibility, or usefulness;
(iv)
Unsanitary or unsafe conditions;
(v)
Deterioration of site or other improvements;
(vi)
Tax or special assessment delinquency exceeding the fair value of land;
(vii)
The existence of conditions which endanger life or property by fire and other causes;
(viii)
Diversity of ownership or defective or unusual conditions of title which prevents the free alienability of land within the deteriorated or hazardous area; or
(ix)
Any combination of such factors, substantially impairs or arrests the sound growth of a municipality, retards the provisions of housing accommodations, or constitutes an economic or social liability and is a menace to the public health, safety, morals, or welfare in its present condition and use.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 707), p. 4688, § 1)
Sec. G-3. - Purposes of Authority.
(a)
The Authority has been created for the purpose of eliminating and improving slum or blighted areas by the revitalization and redevelopment of the project areas for any commercial, business, office, public, or other use determined by the members of the Authority to further the redevelopment of the project areas. In pursuit of such purpose, the Authority may engage in any one or more of the following redevelopment activities:
(i)
The acquisition and clearance of project areas which are predominantly slum or blighted areas, the preparation of such areas for reuse, and the sale or other disposition of such areas to private enterprise for private uses or to public bodies for public uses;
(ii)
The renovation and rehabilitation of existing buildings, structures, and improvements located in the project areas;
(iii)
The acquisition and construction of new buildings, structures, and improvements to be located in the project areas;
(iv)
The improvement of the public facilities of said areas including the construction of streets, roadways, parks, malls, and transportation systems, the acquisition, construction, adding to, extending, improving, equipping, maintaining and operating parking lots, parking garages, parking decks, and other parking structures and any and all other facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property; and
(v)
Such other activities as determined by the members of the Authority to further the redevelopment of the project areas. The purpose of the Authority is hereby found and declared to be an essential and public purpose, the pursuit of which will promote the public good and welfare and benefit the citizens of Dougherty County, Georgia, in general, and the project areas, in particular, by (1) redeveloping and revitalizing the project areas and (2) fostering the development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities within the project areas.
(b)
It is hereby further found and declared that all property of the Authority held pursuant to the terms of this Act, whether real or personal, tangible, or intangible, or of any kind and nature, and any income or revenue therefrom is held for an essential public purpose, and all such property is deemed to be public property and tax exempt, and that all bonds of the Authority issued under the provisions of this Act are declared to be issued for an essential public purpose and all such bonds and the income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within the State.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 707), p. 4688, § 2)
Sec. G-4. - Composition and Organization of Authority.
(a)
The Authority shall consist of the mayor of the City of Albany, who shall be a nonvoting ex officio member, six (6) members to be appointed by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany for terms of two (2) years each, and a seventh member to be appointed by the six (6) so appointed. All members shall be eligible to succeed themselves and shall continue to serve until their successors have been appointed and have accepted, except that the mayor's term shall be coextensive with his term of office as mayor.
(b)
The initial Authority to serve under this amendment shall consist of the present mayor of the City of Albany, three (3) members appointed by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany for terms of two (2) years each, three (3) members to be appointed by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany for terms of one (1) year each, and a seventh member to be appointed by those so appointed for a term of one (1) year. All vacancies which shall occur prior to the end of a term shall be filled by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany for the unexpired portion of the term.
(c)
The members of the Authority shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties immediately after the effective date of this Act.
(d)
The Authority shall elect one of its members as Chairman and one as Vice-Chairman, and shall elect a Secretary-Treasurer who may but need not necessarily hold membership on the Authority.
(e)
Four members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the Authority; however, any resolution of the Authority authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations for any project of the Authority must be approved by a majority vote of the members of the Authority.
(f)
The members of the Authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services, but may be reimbursed by the Authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. Each member of the Authority shall hold office until his successor shall have been elected. The Authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government and may retain, employ, and engage professional and technical supervisors, assistants, and experts and other agents and employees, temporary or permanent, as it may require. The members of the Authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the Authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions and undertakings, and of all income and receipts of every nature and all expenditures of every kind.
(1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 759), p. 3184, § 1-2; 1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 707), p. 4688, § 3)
Sec. G-5. - Powers of the Authority.
The Authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions set forth in this Act, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(a)
To sue and be sued;
(b)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal;
(c)
To make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or convenient to the exercise of the powers of the Authority, including, but not limited to, contracts for construction of projects, leases of projects, contracts for sale of projects, and contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to contract with any departments, institutions, agencies, counties, municipalities, or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, public corporations, and with private legal entities and others upon such terms and for such purposes as the members of the Authority may deem advisable; and such political subdivision shall have and hereby is given the right and power to make such contracts, and the rentals contracted to be paid by the lessee or tenants to the Authority under such contract or contracts entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall constitute general obligations of the political subdivision for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such political subdivision shall be and the same hereby is pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract; and any such political subdivision which shall have entered into such a contract pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of such contract include in a general revenue or appropriation measure, whether or not any other items are included, sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract until all payments required under such contract have been paid in full, and such revenues shall be and hereby are unconditionally obligated to the payment of such sums. In the event for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such political subdivision are hereby authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations called for under any such contract. The amount of the appropriation in each fiscal year to meet the obligations of such contract as authorized and required hereby shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting political subdivision had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure, and such fiscal officers shall make such payment to the Authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made; and said political subdivision be and the same is hereby specifically authorized to levy taxes, without limitation as to rate or amount, and to expend tax monies of said political subdivision and any other available funds thereof, and to obligate said political subdivision to make payment thereof to the Authority upon such terms as may be provided in any such contract entered into by and between the Authority and said political subdivision, in order to enable the Authority to pay the principal of and interest on any of its bonds as the same mature and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose and also to enable the Authority to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the property so furnished by said Authority;
(d)
To finance (by loan, grant, or lease), construct or erect, purchase, acquire, own, repair, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, maintain, extend, improve, sell, equip, expand, add to, operate, or manage projects and to pay the cost of any project from the proceeds of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the Authority or any other funds of the Authority, or from any contributions or loans by persons, corporations, partnerships (limited or general), or other entities, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(e)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may require;
(f)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(g)
To acquire by purchase, gift or donation any real or personal property desired to be acquired as a part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(h)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage or dispose of, or grant options for any such purposes, any real or personal property or interest therein;
(i)
To mortgage, convey, pledge or assign any properties, revenues, income, tolls, charges or fees owned or received by the Authority;
(j)
To issue revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the Authority and use the proceeds thereof for the purpose of paying, or lending the proceeds thereof to pay, all or any part of the cost of any project or otherwise to further or carry out the public purpose of the Authority and to pay all costs of the Authority incident to, or necessary and appropriate to, furthering or carrying out such purposes;
(k)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants and employees and to provide their compensation and duties;
(l)
To acquire by purchase, gift or lease any property owned by a political subdivision which has been acquired or damaged through the exercise of the right of eminent domain by said political subdivision;
(m)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the Authority, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the Authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, or any other contribution, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(n)
To borrow money to further or carry out its public purpose and to execute revenue bonds, notes, other obligations, leases, trust indentures, trust agreements, agreements for the sale of its revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreements, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other instruments as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the Authority, to evidence and secure such borrowing;
(o)
To make or cause to be made studies and analyses of economic changes taking place in project areas and of the impact of metropolitan growth upon those areas;
(p)
To prepare a plan or plans for the development and redevelopment of such project areas; such plan or plans may be coordinated with governmental planning boards and agencies but the Authority shall have the ultimate responsibility for preparation of such plan or plans;
(q)
To implement any general plan of development in the project areas which have been approved by the political subdivision in which said development is located;
(r)
To have and to exercise any and all of the usual powers of private and public corporations which are not in conflict with the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, including the power to adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(s)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(t)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(u)
To extend credit or make loans to any person, corporation, partnership (limited or general), or other entity for the costs of any project or any part of the costs of any project, which credit or loans shall be evidenced or secured by loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds, security agreements, assignments, and such other instruments, or by rentals, revenues, fees or charges, upon such terms and conditions as the Authority shall determine to be reasonable in connection with such extension of credit or loans, including provision for the establishment and maintenance of reserves and insurance funds, and, in the exercise of powers granted by this paragraph in connection with any project, the Authority shall have the right and power to require the inclusion in any such loan agreement, note, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument of such provisions for guaranty, insurance, construction, use, operation, maintenance and financing of a project, and such other terms and conditions as the Authority may deem necessary or desirable;
(v)
As security for repayment of any revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the Authority, to pledge, mortgage, convey, assign, hypothecate, or otherwise encumber any property, real or personal, of the Authority and to execute any lease, trust indenture, trust agreement, agreement for the sale of the Authority's revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, assignment, or other instrument as may be necessary or desirable, in the judgment of the Authority, to secure any such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations, which instrument may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default in any obligation of the Authority, either in payment of principal or interest or in the performance of any term or condition contained in any such instrument; provided, however, the Authority may not mortgage any of its property if such transaction would constitute a violation of any of the provisions of the Constitution or laws of the State of Georgia;
(w)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish or to complement the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 707), p. 4688, §§ 4—6)
Sec. G-6. - Revenue Bonds.
(a)
The Authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable and may be secured by a pledge of rents, fees, charges, and other revenues of, and by the mortgage of, all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds or with the proceeds of bonds called and refunded or to be called and refunded by such bond issue. The bond of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. The Authority in determining the cost of any project for which revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations are to be issued may include all costs relative to the issuance thereof, including, without limitation, architectural, engineering, inspection, fiscal agents' and legal expenses estimated to accrue from the date of any such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations through the period of construction and for six months after the completion thereof.
(b)
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the Authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
(c)
All such bonds shall be executed with the engraved, imprinted, stamped, or otherwise reproduced facsimile of the signature of the Chairman of the Authority and the corporate seal of the Authority shall be thereunto impressed or a facsimile thereof imprinted or otherwise reproduced and attested by the manually executed signature of the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of said Secretary-Treasurer. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on the bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until delivery, and such bonds may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person who signed or sealed such bonds had not ceased to be such officer, and any of such bonds may be executed and sealed on behalf of said Authority by such officers who may, at the time of the execution of such bonds, hold the proper offices of said Authority although on the date of such bonds or on the date of any lawful proceedings taken in connection therewith such persons may not have held such offices.
(d)
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall be and are hereby declared to be negotiable under the laws of the State of Georgia, subject to provisions for registration.
(e)
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(f)
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(g)
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds and coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(h)
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified required hereunder. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions hereof shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the Authority.
(i)
The revenue bonds or obligations herein authorized to be issued shall not be deemed to constitute a debt (within the meaning of Article IX, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976) of the State of Georgia, the City of Albany, the County of Dougherty, or the Authority, or a pledge of the faith and credit of said State, City, County, nor shall said State, City, or County be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon.
(j)
In the discretion of the Authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds; and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State or of the United States to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. Any resolution adopted by the Authority or any indenture of trust, trust agreement, or other instrument executed by the Authority may contain such terms and provisions as the Authority shall approve. Such approval of the Authority shall be conclusively established by the execution of any such resolution, indenture of trust, trust agreement, or other instrument by the chairman or vice chairman of the Authority and the attestation of such execution by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Authority. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1981 Ga. Laws (Act No. 707), p. 4688, §§ 7—9)
Sec. G-7. - To Whom Proceeds of Bonds Shall be Paid.
The Authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as such resolutions or trust indentures may provided.
Sec. G-8. - Sinking Fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds, so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
Sec. G-9. - Remedies of Bondholders.
Any holders of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting or revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
Sec. G-10. - Funding and Refunding Bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the Authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Sec. G-11. - Venue and Jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Dougherty County, Georgia, and and [an] action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
Sec. G-12. - Validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia, as heretofore or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and any such political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the Authority issuing the same, and any political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Authority.
Sec. G-13. - Interest of Bondholders Protected.
The Authority shall have perpetual existence, and, while any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds.
Sec. G-14. - Rates, Charges and Revenues; Use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished; and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of its undertakings or projects; and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds, and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
Sec. G-15. - Legal Investments.
The bonds herein authorized are hereby made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this State and all political subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations, and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks, and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees, and other fiduciaries and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the State may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also hereby made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this State and all political subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this State is now or may hereafter be authorized.
Sec. G-16. - Property Not Subject to Levy and Sale.
The property of the Authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, revenue, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the Authority, and any such property, revenue, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the Authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
Sec. G-17. - Construction.
This Act and all provisions, rights, powers and authority granted hereunder, being for the welfare of the State and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
Sec. G-18. - Powers Declared Supplementary.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
Editor's note— Sections 19—21 of 1977 Ga. Laws (Act No. 663), p. 4220 consisted of provisions regarding the severability (sec. 19), effective date (sec. 20), and repealing clauses (sec. 21). They have been omitted from this printing, at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. G-22. - [Transition.]
All contractual obligations, assets, liabilities, debts, and property of the Central Albany Development Authority are hereby transferred in full to the Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority created herein. The Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority is hereby authorized and empowered to receive and accept all of said contractual obligations, assets, liabilities, debts, and property.
(1980 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1290), p. 4340, § 1)
ARTICLE H. - ALBANY AND DOUGHERTY COUNTY SEWAGE SYSTEM[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 83), p. 424. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the ballot provision, jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. H-1. - Established; financing.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: The governing body of the City of Albany is hereby authorized to create indebtedness, and to issue revenue anticipation certificates and/or direct obligation bonds for the construction, maintenance and operation of sanitary and storm sewers and of a sewerage disposal plant, but the amount of such bonds outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $2,500,000 in addition to the limitation now imposed upon said municipality. The governing body of said municipality is hereby given full authority to determine the aggregate amount of bonds to be issued from time to time, maturity dates, not to exceed 30 years from date of issue, the interest rates, the date of issuance and other details incident to the issuance and sale of said bonds. Such bonds may be issued after submitting the question of such issuance to the voters of the municipality and upon the approval of such issuance by a majority vote of those actually voting on such question. In the event such bonds are issued, the governing body shall provide for the assessment and collection of an annual tax on all the property in said city subject to taxation for bond purposes, sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on said bonds as the same mature. The aforesaid governing body is hereby authorized to levy a tax, fee or charge, in addition to taxes now authorized to said municipality, as necessary to assure the acquisition; construction, equipping and, thereafter, the operation, maintenance, and extension of such sewage disposal plant and sewage system, and, in its discretion, to levy a sewer charge for the use of sewers, and to contract with the governing body of the County of Dougherty relative to the establishment, construction, maintenance, operation, financing, administration and use of such sewerage system and sewerage disposal, including the aforesaid sewage disposal plant, and such contract may include provisions relative to the joining of the aforesaid system to any system now or hereafter created in or by the County of Dougherty.
Sec. H-2. - Same; authority of city to contract with county; financing.
Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following: The governing body of Dougherty County is hereby authorized to establish, construct, maintain, operate and administer a system of sewerage, including sanitary and storm sewers and a sewage disposal plant, in said county. In order to accomplish the foregoing, the governing authority is hereby authorized to assess the cost of sanitary sewers against the property owners served thereby, to acquire rights-of-way for such sewers by contract of purchase or by the power of eminent domain, and to create indebtedness, and to issue revenue anticipation certificates and/or general obligation bonds but the amount of such bonds outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $2,500,000, in addition to the seven percent (7%) limitation now imposed by the Constitution. The governing body of said county is hereby given full authority to determine the aggregate amount of bonds to be issued from time to time, the maturity dates not to exceed 30 years from date of issue, the date of issuance and other details incident to the issuance and sale of said bonds. Such bonds may be issued after submitting the question of such issuance to the voters of the county and the approval of such issuance by a majority of the qualified voters of said county voting on such question. In the event such bonds are issued, the governing body shall provide for the assessment and collection of an annual tax on all the property in said county subject to taxation for bond purposes sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on said bonds as the same mature. The aforesaid governing body is further authorized to levy a tax, fee or charge as necessary, to assure the acquisition, construction, equipping, and, thereafter, operating, maintaining and extending such system, and, in their discretion, to levy a sewer charge for the use of sewers constructed hereunder for such purposes, and to contract with the governing authority of the City of Albany relative to the establishment, construction, maintenance, financing, administration, operation and use of such sewerage system and sewage disposal, including the aforesaid sewage disposal plant, and such contract may include provisions relative to the joining of the aforesaid system to any system now or hereafter created in or by the City of Albany.
(1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 109), p. 467, § 1)
Editor's note— Local Constitutional amendment 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 83), p. 424, § 1 was specifically continued in force and effect by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 158), p. 3839. Furthermore, local Constitutional amendment 1956 Ga. Laws (Act No. 109), p. 467, § 1 was specifically continued in force and effect by 1987 Ga. Laws (Act No. 159), p. 3841.
ARTICLE I. - ALBANY REDEVELOPMENT AREA[9]
WHEREAS, the Georgia Legislature has enacted the Redevelopment Powers Law (Ga. Laws 1985, p. 1360); and
WHEREAS, the General Assembly on May 16, 2007, adopted H.B. 796 authorizing the City of Albany to exercise redevelopment powers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-44-22; and
WHEREAS, a majority of the qualified voters of the City of Albany approved such local law in a referendum of November 6, 2007.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany, Georgia and it is hereby ordained by authority of same:

Footnotes:
--- (9) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is Ordinance No. 08-101, which was approved by the qualified voters of the city in a referendum on November 6, 2007, and adopted by the board of commissioners of the City of Albany, GA on January 22, 2008. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Any provisions regarding the title, the adoption date, and the repealing clause of the ordinance have been omitted. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. The style used for headings and catchlines has been made uniform and consistent with those appearing in the Code. Additions made for clarity, such as consistent state statute citations and catchline modifications, are indicated by brackets.

Sec. [I-]1. - [Area established].
The following area is designated a Redevelopment Area:
Bounded by and including properties along both sides of the following demarcation lines or streets: Radium Springs Road/Broadway to the east, Mercer Alley to the south, Jefferson Street to the west and Residence Alley to north.
Sec. [I-]2. - [Agency designated].
The City of Albany hereby designates the Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority as the Redevelopment Agency for such Redevelopment Area.
Sec. [I-]3. - [Powers].
The City of Albany hereby delegates to the Albany-Dougherty Inner City Authority (ADICA) the following redevelopment powers:
1.
Cause a Redevelopment Plan to be prepared.
2.
Implement the provisions and effectuate the purposes of the Redevelopment Plan once it has been approved by resolution of the mayor and board of commissioners.
3.
Recommend to the mayor and board of commissioners the boundaries of any tax allocation districts in the Redevelopment Area or recommend to the mayor and board of commissioners that the entire Redevelopment Area be designated as a tax allocation district.
4.
Recommend to the mayor and board of commissioners the boundaries of any portion(s) of the Redevelopment Area that should be part of a Redevelopment Plan other than through creation of a tax allocation district, or recommend to the mayor and board of commissioners the entire Redevelopment Area itself is suitable for implementation of Redevelopment Plans other than plans calling for the creation of tax allocation districts.
5.
Recommend to the mayor and board of commissioners whether tax allocation bonds should issue for any tax allocation district.
6.
Deposit money into and disburse monies from the special fund of any tax allocation district as provided for in O.C.G.A. § 36-44-11.
7.
Enter into and execute such contracts, leases, mortgages, or other agreements, including agreements with bond holders or lenders as determined appropriate by the mayor and board of commissioners which may be necessary or convenient to implement the provisions and effectuate the purposes of Redevelopment Plans. Such contracts or agreements may include conditions, restrictions or covenants which either run with the land or otherwise regulate the use of the land.
8.
Acquire and retain or acquire and dispose of property or interests therein for redevelopment purposes or use or dispose of property or interests therein; any disposition of such property or interest therein may be by public or private sale or lease.
Except the following powers are reserved unto the City of Albany:
1.
No Redevelopment Plan may be implemented until it has been approved by resolution of the mayor and board of commissioners.
2.
Any tax allocation district must be created by resolution of the mayor and board of commissioners.
3.
Any tax allocation bonds may be issued only by resolution of the mayor and board of commissioners.
4.
The power of eminent domain may be exercised only by the mayor and board of commissioners.
