ARTICLE VIII. - TAXICABS[8]

Footnotes:
--- (8) ---
State Law reference— Authority of cities and counties to require certificate of public necessity and convenience as prerequisite to operation of taxicab within local government's geographical boundaries, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-25.

Sec. 12-352. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Driver means any person in charge of or operating a cab or taxicab whether as owner, agent, employee or otherwise.
Highway means any of the public streets, boulevards, avenues, drives or alleys in the city.
Owner means any person having control of the operation, maintenance, or collection of the revenue derived from cabs and taxicabs.
Permit means the written authority granted by the city council to engage in the cab or taxicab business in the city.
Taxicab, taxi or cab means a motor-driven vehicle of distinctive color or design, with a seating capacity of not less than five nor more than seven persons, including the driver, operated for hire from a fixed stand in the street, or from garages, the destination of which is under the direction of the passenger or passengers transported therein.
Taximeter means a meter instrument or device attached to a taxicab which measures mechanically the distance driven and the waiting time upon which the fare is based.
Sec. 12-353. - Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating cabs or taxicabs on the highways of the city until he has complied with the provisions of this article.
Sec. 12-354. - Application for permit.
Any person desiring to engage in the business of operating cabs or taxicabs shall first make application to the city council for a permit to operate such vehicle on the highways of the city. The application shall be in writing, addressed to the council, and shall be filed with the city clerk. It shall contain the full name and address of the applicant and, if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of its officers. It shall also state the business to be engaged in, the location from which the business is to be operated, the type of equipment to be used, the maximum number of passengers each vehicle is manufactured to carry, the number of vehicles to be operated, and any other information required by the city council. The application shall be submitted with a nonrefundable administrative fee and an annual permit fee in the amount established by the city council.
Sec. 12-355. - Hearing and report.
Upon the filing of the application, the city council shall fix a time and place for a public hearing thereon. At the hearing, testimony shall be heard for or against the granting of the permit. If the application is approved, a permit shall be issued. No person shall operate any such vehicle upon the highways of the city until a permit has been granted and issued after such application and hearing.
Sec. 12-356. - Transfer of permit.
Any permit granted under this article to any person may be sold, assigned, transferred, leased, or mortgaged by the holder with the approval and consent of the city council.
Sec. 12-357. - Suspensions.
The chief of police may suspend from operation any cab or taxicab found to be unsafe; and any vehicle so suspended shall not be operated again until repaired and put in proper condition for use, and then only after its condition has been approved by the chief of police.
Sec. 12-358. - Display of name, address and telephone number of owner.
Every cab or taxicab shall display inside the cab, at a convenient place visible to passengers, a card not less than two inches in width by four inches in length which shall have printed thereon the name, business address and telephone number of the owner of such vehicle. Every car shall have displayed on each side thereof the name and telephone number of the owner in letters and numerals of such size as to be readily visible to the public.
Sec. 12-359. - Inspections.
(a)
No taxicab shall be permitted to be used or operated in this municipality until such vehicle has been thoroughly and carefully inspected and examined under the supervision of the chief of police and has been found to comply with such reasonable rules and regulations respecting safety and sanitation as may be prescribed by said chief of police. These rules and regulations shall be promulgated to assure safe and sanitary transportation and shall specify such equipment and regulatory devices as the chief of police shall deem necessary therefor.
(b)
When it has been determined that a vehicle has met the standards established by the chief of police, a certificate to that effect shall be issued, which certificate shall also state the authorized seating capacity of said vehicle. Such certificate may be withdrawn and the vehicle relating thereto suspended from operation at any time by the chief of police if such vehicle is found to be unsafe or not in compliance with any regulations promulgated by such officer or imposed by this section.
(c)
Periodic inspections of taxicabs shall be made at such intervals as shall be established by the chief of police to ensure that such vehicles are kept in a condition of continued fitness for public use.
Sec. 12-360. - Taximeters.
(a)
All taxicabs operating in this municipality shall be equipped with taximeters fastened in front of the passengers, visible to them at all times of day and night; and, after sundown, the face of the taximeter shall be illuminated. Said taximeter shall be operated mechanically by a mechanism of standard design and construction, driven either from the transmission or from one of the front wheels by a flexible and permanently attached driving mechanism and each shall be sealed at all points and connections which, if manipulated, would affect a correct reading and recording.
(b)
Each taximeter shall have thereon a flag to denote when the vehicle is employed and when it is not employed; and it shall be the duty of the driver to throw the flag of such taximeter into a non-recording position at the termination of each trip.
(c)
The said taximeters shall be subject to inspection from time to time by the police department. Any inspector or other officer of said department is authorized either on complaint of any person, or without such complaint, to inspect any meter and, upon discovery of any inaccuracy therein, to notify the person operating said taxicab to cease operation. Thereupon, said taxicab shall be kept off the public roads until the taximeter is repaired.
Sec. 12-361. - Receipts.
The driver of any taxicab shall upon request by the passenger render to such passenger a receipt for the amount charged, either by a mechanically printed receipt or by a specially prepared receipt, on which shall be the name of the owner, license number of motor number, amount of the meter reading or charges, and the date of the transaction.
Sec. 12-362. - Solicitation, acceptance, and discharge of passenger.
(a)
No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab except when sitting in the driver's compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately adjacent to the curbside thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the driver's compartment or immediately adjacent to his vehicle at all times when such vehicle is upon the public street, except that, when necessary, a driver may be absent from his taxicab for not more than ten consecutive minutes, and provided further that nothing herein shall be held to prohibit any driver from alighting to the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting passengers into or out of such vehicle.
(b)
No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice or by sign, or in any manner annoy any person or obstruct the movement of any person, or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting patronage.
(c)
Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the roadway but shall pull up to the right-hand sidewalk as nearly as possible, or, in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right-hand side of the road and there receive or discharge passengers, except upon one-way streets where passengers may be discharged at either the right or left-hand sidewalk or side of the roadway in the absence of a sidewalk.
(d)
No driver shall cruise in search of passengers except in such areas and at such times as shall be designated by the chief of police. Such areas and times shall only be designated when said officer finds that taxicab cruising would not congest traffic or be dangerous to pedestrians and other vehicles.
(e)
Solicitation of other common carrier passengers is prohibited. No driver, owner, or operator shall solicit passengers at the terminal of any other common carrier, nor at any intermediate points along any established route of any other common carrier.
(f)
No driver shall permit any other person to occupy or ride in said taxicab, unless the person first employing the taxicab shall consent to the acceptance of additional passenger or passengers. No charge shall be made for an additional passenger except when the said additional passenger rides beyond the previous passenger's destination, and then only for the additional distance so traveled.
Sec. 12-363. - Regulation of rates.
The city council reserves the right, at any time, and from time to time, to regulate the rates and fares to be charged by taxicabs in the city.
Sec. 12-364. - Vehicles to be operated from fixed points.
All vehicles operated as cabs or taxicabs shall be operated only from public or private garages or from fixed stands in the streets. Before using the streets for stands or parking places, the owner or operator of such vehicle must first make known to the city clerk the stand or parking place selected and receive a permit for the use thereof, which permit shall state the place to be used. No such parking permit shall be granted except by and with the consent of the property owners abutting on such space. The space or area reserved for such stand shall be designated and marked by the police department. No cab or taxicab shall run along the streets advertising themselves as taxicabs or solicit passengers along said streets, provided this shall not prevent any taxicab from answering a call to any person at any place in said city.
Secs. 12-365—12-386. - Reserved.
