DIVISION 6. - PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

Sec. 46-206. - Purpose and intent.
The planned unit development district is intended to provide flexibility in the application of area, height, bulk, placement, and other zoning controls; provide for mixing a wide variety of residential housing types and arrangements; provide for the mixing of compatible residential, office, commercial and industrial land uses; encourage imaginative and innovative design for the unified development of tracts of land; provide an alternative for more efficient use of land, resulting in smaller networks of utilities and streets, thereby resulting in lower construction and maintenance costs to the public; preserve the natural amenities of the land by encouraging scenic and functional open areas within the development; and to promote land development in proper relation to the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1201)
Sec. 46-207. - Permitted uses.
In planned unit development districts, any land uses and combinations thereof, including signs and accessory buildings and uses, that have been specifically proposed by the applicant and approved by the city council as a part of a planned unit development site plan, report, or other supporting information are permitted uses.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1202)
Sec. 46-208. - Development summary report required.
Applications for rezoning to, or development within, a planned unit development district shall require a written report which explains the type, nature, size, intent and characteristics of the proposed development. As a minimum, the report shall include the following:
(1)
A complete listing of every land use proposed within the development, including total acreage and the amount of acreage devoted to each use. All uses not specifically included in the report or site plan and approved by the city council are prohibited unless subsequently the application is amended in accordance with applicable procedures.
(2)
Proposed development standards including minimum lot sizes, minimum lot widths, minimum lot frontages, minimum floor areas or residential dwelling unit sizes, maximum number of dwelling units, maximum square footage figures for nonresidential developments, minimum yards/building setbacks, landscape strips and buffers, height limitations, restrictive covenants, and any other such applicable standard or requirement. The report should also indicate any proposed exceptions or variations from the size, setback, frontage, density or other standards which are required in other conventional zoning districts, along with justification for such proposed exceptions or variations.
(3)
Time frame of development and provisions for ownership and management of the development.
(4)
Intended plans for the provision of utilities, including water, sewer and drainage facilities.
(5)
All streets and common open spaces not proposed for dedication to the public shall have the proposed maintenance and ownership agreements explained in detail.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1203)
Sec. 46-209. - Site plan approval required.
Applications for rezoning to, or development within, a planned unit development district shall require a site plan approved by the planning commission. Site plans shall be prepared by a professional engineer, architect, land surveyor, land planner or landscape architect, and his seal of registration or professional initials shall be indicated on such plans.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1204)
Sec. 46-210. - Report and site plan are minimum requirements.
The approved development summary report, site plan, and all other information, studies, plats, plans or architectural elevations submitted in the application, or required to be submitted by the city council, shall establish the standards and minimum requirements for the subject property and shall become the zoning regulations that apply to the subject property, regardless of changes in property ownership.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1205)
Sec. 46-211. - Revisions to approved PUD application.
Any additions in the types of land uses, increases in square footage or density, decreases in lot sizes, changes in the location or dimensions of streets, decreases in dwelling unit floor areas, major alterations in the land use patterns, or other substantial changes that, in the opinion of the zoning administrator, result in a development of such intent and character which has not been conceptually approved by the city council shall require additional approval in accordance with procedures established in accordance with the city's zoning regulations. Otherwise, minor changes may be approved by the zoning administrator prior to issuance of building permits.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1206)
Sec. 46-212. - Minimum site area and frontage required.
The minimum site area for a planned unit development district shall be ten contiguous acres, a minimum lot width of 100 feet and the site must have a minimum of 100 feet of frontage on a public street, which shall provide access to such public street.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1207)
Sec. 46-213. - Suggested site planning guidelines.
The following specifications are not regulations, but recommended guidelines to be utilized in preparation of site plans for planned unit developments:
(1)
Land uses which have traditionally been viewed as incompatible (e.g., single-family subdivision and a manufacturing plant) should not be proposed in the same planned unit development unless considerable screening and physical separation is provided.
(2)
Office, commercial or industrial uses should be located adjacent to major thoroughfares or in other areas with suitable access that will not result in traffic through residential areas.
(3)
Lot sizes, lot widths, unit sizes and other characteristics of residential development within the planned unit development should be similar to those characteristics of adjacent or nearby residential subdivisions or provide a suitable transition from such adjacent uses.
(4)
Location of land uses should conform substantially to land use plan goals, policies and suggested types of uses.
(5)
Street lengths, alignments, patterns and other characteristics should conform to city subdivision regulations or standard planning principles.
(6)
Proposed developments should make maximum use of natural features of the land.
(7)
For developments that are predominantly residential, only limited commercial uses (up to 10,000 square feet, or ten percent of the total development site area) of a convenience retail nature, internally oriented and intended to serve the needs of the residents of the development, should be proposed.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1208)
Secs. 46-214—46-234. - Reserved.
