DIVISION 11. - A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT

Sec. 46-354. - Purpose and intent.
The A-1 agricultural district is established to maintain those areas with land characteristics such as soil moisture, temperature and content suitable for farming, dairying, forestry operations and other agricultural activities; to protect land used or needed for food production and other agricultural uses from encroachment by untimely and unplanned residential, commercial or industrial development; to permit the continuation of agricultural uses in areas where development is anticipated, but where the present application of zoning controls for future, more intensive uses would be unreasonable and premature; prevent the subdivision of land for residential development that requires public services such as paved roads, water and sanitary sewer. In certain instances the A-1 district may be appropriate for preserving the very low density character and rural characteristics of areas in the city.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1701)
Sec. 46-355. - Permitted uses.
In A-1 agricultural districts, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Agricultural uses, including and production of field crops, fruits, nuts and vegetables; the raising of livestock and poultry; dairying; horticulture; forestry and fisheries; and other uses involving agricultural operations.
(2)
Animal hospitals.
(3)
Antique shops.
(4)
Cemeteries.
(5)
Churches, temples, synagogues and places of worship.
(6)
Dwellings, single-family, provided each dwelling is located on a lot that is a minimum of one acre and a minimum lot width of 150 feet.
(7)
Farm buildings, including barns, chicken houses, grain storage facilities, implement sheds, and structures accessory to agricultural use.
(8)
Home occupations.
(9)
Horse stables.
(10)
Kennels.
(11)
Marinas and boat storage yards.
(12)
Mobile and manufactured modular homes, provided each home is located on a lot that is a minimum of three acres and a minimum lot width of 200 feet.
(13)
Nurseries and greenhouses; plants, trees and shrubs.
(14)
Produce stands, provided products sold are those grown or produced on the premises.
(15)
Public and semi-public buildings and uses.
(16)
Schools, public elementary and secondary, and public and private colleges and universities.
(17)
Schools, parochial, private and others offering courses in general education not operated for profit.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1702)
Sec. 46-356. - Conditional uses.
In A-1 agricultural districts, the following conditional uses are authorized:
(1)
Farm supply stores and agricultural-related businesses, such as agricultural implement sales and service, auction facilities, feed and grain stores and other businesses not involving sales or services to the general public, provided such business is located on property a minimum of two acres that fronts on a state or federal highway, and provided such buildings or uses are not located within 200 feet of abutting property zoned or utilized for single-family or mobile home use.
(2)
Boarding homes, dormitories and lodginghouses for agricultural workers, provided that such dwellings are located on a farm with a minimum size of 20 acres, provision is made to meet all applicable public health requirements, land provided such lodging is intended only for the temporary or seasonal housing of farm workers.
(3)
Clubs, lodges, fraternal institutions and other places of assembly for nonprofit membership groups, provided such use is located on property a minimum of two acres that fronts on a state or federal highway.
(4)
Radio and television broadcasting towers, including studios or offices, provided such use is not located within 500 feet of abutting property zoned or utilized for a residence, and provided the height of such tower does not exceed 150 feet without specific authorization from the Federal Aviation Administration and Federal Communications Commission.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1703)
Sec. 46-357. - Area, height, density and placement requirements.
Area, height, density and placement requirements are as specified in sections 46-30 and 46-31.
(Ord. of 1993, § 1704)
Secs. 46-358—46-387. - Reserved.
