Chapter 40 - SUBDIVISIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Purpose and intent.
This chapter and its rules and regulations are intended to serve the following purposes, among others:
(1)
To protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the city;
(2)
To encourage economically sound and stable land development;
(3)
To ensure the provision of required streets, utilities, and other facilities and services to new land developments in conformance with public improvement plans of the city;
(4)
To ensure adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in new land developments, especially for the purposes of ensuring that all building lots will be accessible to firefighting equipment and other emergency and service vehicles;
(5)
To ensure the provision of needed open spaces and building sites in new land developments through the dedication or reservation of land for recreational, educational, and other public purposes;
(6)
To ensure the adequate provision of water supply, stormwater drainage, sanitation, lighting, and other necessary improvements;
(7)
To ensure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform procedures and standards for the subdivider and land developer;
(8)
To ensure, in general, the wise development of new land areas, in harmony with the comprehensive plan of the community;
(9)
To ensure the accurate description of property and adequate and proper identification of property in public records;
(10)
To help conserve and protect the natural, economic and scenic resources of the community;
(11)
To help eliminate the costly maintenance problems which develop when streets and lots are laid out without proper consideration given to various public purposes; and
(12)
To protect lot purchasers who generally lack the specialized knowledge to evaluate subdivision improvements and design.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 102)
Sec. 40-2. - Authority.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to powers vested in cities by the state constitution, home rule powers, state administrative rules for the adoption and implementation of comprehensive plans, and the protection of vital areas of the state.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 103)
Sec. 40-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrative officer means the zoning administrator of the city, or his authorized representative.
Alley means a private or public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to a building or abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
Appeal means a request for a review of an administrative official's interpretation of any provision of this chapter, or an action taken by an administrative official in the application or enforcement of this chapter.
Block means a piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public streets.
Comprehensive plan means those coordinated plans or portions thereof which have been prepared by or for the city council for the physical development of the jurisdiction; or any plans that designate plans or programs to encourage the most appropriate use of the land in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.
Conservation areas, primary, means any property qualifying as conservation use property under O.C.G.A. § 48-5-7.4 and any steep slopes, floodplains, wetlands, water bodies, upland buffers around wetlands and water bodies, critical wildlife habitat, and sites of historic, cultural, or archaeological significance, located outside of building envelopes and lots established for building purposes.
Conservation areas, secondary, means prime farmland, natural meadows, mature woodlands, farm fields, localized aquifer recharge areas, and lands containing scenic views and sites, located outside of building envelopes and lots established for building purposes.
Conservation easement means a legally enforceable agreement between a property owner and the holder of the easement, with content meeting requirements of state law and in a form acceptable to the city attorney of a participating municipality with jurisdiction and recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county. A conservation easement restricts the existing and future use of the defined tract or lot to conservation use, agriculture, passive recreation, or other use approved by the city council of a participating municipality with jurisdiction and prohibits further subdivision or development. Such agreement also provides for the maintenance of open spaces and any improvements on the tract or lot. Such agreement cannot be altered except with the express written permission of the easement holder and any other co-signers. A conservation easement may also establish other provisions and contain standards that safeguard the tract or lot's special resources from negative changes.
Conservation (open space) subdivision means a subdivision, as defined by this chapter, where open space is the central organizing element of the subdivision design and that identifies and permanently protects all primary and all or some of the secondary conservation areas within the boundaries of the subdivision.
Corridor map means a map adopted by a city council which designates land to be reserved for the construction of future or improvement of existing transportation facilities. The corridor map establishes the width and termini of corridors as necessary to allow flexibility in planning the design of a transportation facility.
Cul-de-sac means a street having one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular turn-around.
Cul-de-sac, temporary, means a non-permanent vehicular turn-around located at the termination of a street.
Curb cut means a provision for vehicular ingress or egress between property and an abutting public street.
Deceleration lane means an added roadway lane, of a specified distance and which may include a taper, as approved by the city engineer, that permits vehicles to slow down and leave the main vehicle stream.
Dedication means the deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use or purpose, reserving to himself no other rights than such as are compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property has been devoted.
Dedication plat means a plat that indicates property to be dedicated for public right-of-way or land for public use.
Development means any manmade change of improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or permanent storage of materials or equipment.
Easement means a non-possessory interest in land; a grant by a property owner for the use by the public, a corporation or persons, of a portion of land for a specified purpose or purposes.
Escrow account means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee where the subdivider deposits cash, a note, a bond, or some other instrument readily convertible to cash for specific face value specified by the city engineer to cover the costs of required improvements.
Habitat for endangered or threatened species means an area verified by the state department of natural resources as actually containing naturally occurring individuals of a species that has been listed as endangered or threatened under the federal Endangered Species Act, 16 USC 1531 et seq., and being likely to support the continued existence of that species by providing for a significant portion of that species' biological requirements, and that meets the definition of "natural conditions" as defined by this chapter.
Homeowners' association means an organization formed for the maintenance and operation of the common areas of a development, where membership in the association is automatic with the purchase of a dwelling unit or lot within the development, with the ability to legally assess each owner of a dwelling unit or lot and which has authority to place a lien against all dwelling units and lots within the development.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands of the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, scraping, excavating, transporting, or filling of land; and any construction, rebuilding or alteration of a structure, but specifically excluding agricultural and gardening practices.
Lane means a street designed for primary access to no more than ten residential dwelling units, where the residential environment is dominant and traffic is completely subservient to residential use.
Letter of credit means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee whereby a subdivider secures an instrument from a bank or other institution or from a person with resources sufficient to cover the cost of improvements required by the city. The instrument pledges the creditor to pay the cost of improvements in case of default by the subdivider.
Lot means a portion or parcel of land intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development, or both, intended to be devoted to a common use or occupied by a building or group of buildings devoted to a common use, and having principal frontage on a public street or an approved private street. In determining the area and dimension of a lot, no part of the right-of-way may be included.
Lot area means the total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, exclusive of public street rights-of-way.
Lot, corner, means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Lot depth means the average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
Lot, double frontage, means a lot other than a corner lot which has frontage upon two or more streets that do not intersect at a point abutting the property.
Lot, flag, means a tract or lot of land of uneven dimensions in which the portion fronting on a public street is less than the required minimum width for construction of a building or structure on that lot.
Lot frontage means the width in linear feet of a lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any public street.
Lot of record means a parcel of land within the city limits which was properly platted and recorded in the clerk of superior court of the county's plat and deed records which existed prior to the adoption of zoning regulations in the city, or which has been lawfully subdivided in accordance with the city zoning regulations and subdivision regulations since their adoption or amendment, or which was lawfully subdivided prior to annexation into the city limits.
Lot width means the distance between side lot lines measured at the regulatory/required building line.
Metes and bounds means a system of describing and identifying land by distances or measures (metes) and bearings or direction (bounds) from an identifiable point of reference, such as a monument or other marker or the corner of intersecting streets.
Open space means any combination of primary conservation areas and secondary conservation areas, as defined in this chapter, that together form a permanent, undivided or relatively undivided, undeveloped area. As much as 25 percent of the open space may be devoted to active recreational facilities, as defined. Easements for electric transmission lines or any other above-ground improvement shall not be considered open space except as may be otherwise provided by this chapter. Stormwater management features such as lakes, ponds, and ways may be considered open space at the discretion of the administrative officer, provided that such areas are designed and maintained in a manner that contributes to open space and the aesthetics of the subdivision or land development.
Performance bond means a type of subdivision improvement guarantee in the form of a bond, secured by the subdivider from a bonding company, in an amount specified by the city engineer to cover the costs of required improvements, and payable to the city. The city may call in the performance bond in the event the subdivider defaults on required improvements.
Plat, final, means a finished drawing of a subdivision showing completely and accurately all legal and engineering information, certification, and all other elements and requirements set forth in this chapter, prepared for filing for record with the clerk of the county superior court.
Plat, preliminary, means a drawing which shows the proposed layout of a subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate its general design.
Professional engineer means an engineer duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of civil engineering.
Professional surveyor means a surveyor duly registered or otherwise authorized by the state to practice in the field of land surveying.
Protective covenants means contracts made between private parties as to the manner in which land may be used, with the view toward protecting and preserving the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
Recreation, active, means leisure activities that are facility oriented, such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and ball fields.
Recreation, passive, means leisure activities that are natural resource oriented, such as hiking trails, conservation areas, and nature preserves.
Reservation means a method of holding land for future public use by showing proposed public areas on a subdivision plat.
Reserved land means land shown on the corridor map as "reserved."
Right-of-way means that area, distinguished from an easement, which is owned in fee-simple title by the city council or other government for the present or future use of roads, streets and highways, together with its drainage facilities and other supporting uses and structures.
Scenic views and sites means those geographic areas containing visually significant or unique natural features, as identified in a comprehensive plan of a participating municipality, or by other reasonable means.
Sensitive natural areas means any area, as identified now or hereafter by the state department of natural resources, which contains one or more of the following: habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered species; rare or exemplary natural communities; significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; or other areas so designated by the department of natural resources; and which is sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Shade tree means a tree in a public place, street right-of-way, or special easement, planted to provide canopy that will obscure the sun and heat from the ground.
Sidewalk means a hard-surfaced pedestrian access area adjacent to or within the right-of-way of a public road.
Street means a public or private thoroughfare which is open to the general public and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
Street, arterial, unless otherwise defined by the comprehensive plan of the city, means a major street connecting two or more towns or communities, connecting two highways of equal or greater capacity, or serving as the primary access to a large land area. A major arterial may also serve a large traffic generator (e.g., an industrial area) and perform a secondary function of providing local access.
Street, collector, unless otherwise defined by the comprehensive plan of the city, means a public street whose function is to collect traffic from neighborhoods and local streets and which connects to another public street of equal of greater classification. A collector street also may provide direct access to adjacent properties.
Street, half, means a portion of the ultimate width of a road or street where the remaining portion of the road or street shall be provided at a future date.
Street, private, means a road or street that has not been accepted for maintenance by the city and that is not owned and maintained by a state, county, city, or another public entity.
Street, public, means a dedicated and accepted public right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to abutting properties.
Subdivision means the division of a parcel or tract of land into two or more lots for the purposes of creation of lots for development, the rearrangement of existing lot lines, or for the purpose of transfer of ownership.
Subdivision, minor, means the subdivision of a tract of land into not more than five lots in which there are no street, drainage, or other requirements, and where each lot has minimum required frontage on a public street, and where there is adequate provision for potable water supply and wastewater management for each lot, and where all lots comply with the city zoning regulations.
Transportation facilities means streets, highways, bikeways, sidewalks, and trails.
Variance means a minimal relaxation or modification of the strict terms of these regulations as applied to specific property when, because of particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical condition of the property, compliance would result in a particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or a desire to make a profit.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, §§ 302, 1002, 1102)
Sec. 40-4. - Zoning regulations applicable.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with chapter 46, the zoning regulations of the city.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 201)
Sec. 40-5. - Soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations applicable.
No land shall be platted and no land shall be developed except in accordance with the soil erosion and sedimentation control regulations of the city. Compliance with those regulations shall be coordinated by the applicant for subdivision or land development approval and the city with the development permitting requirements of the city zoning regulations and with the land development and improvement requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 202)
Sec. 40-6. - Utility connections.
No connections to city water and sewer shall be permitted except in compliance with applicable provisions of this Code.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 203)
Sec. 40-7. - Reference to state and federal land subdivision laws.
The subdivision of land within the city shall comply, as applicable, with the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, 15 USC 1701 et seq., and with the state Land Sales Act, O.C.G.A. § 44-3-1 et seq. All subdivision plats shall also comply with applicable state laws regarding accuracy and content of all such subdivision plats.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 204)
Sec. 40-8. - Special review of subdivisions along state routes.
No subdivision plat containing land which abuts a state route shall be approved until such plat has been submitted for review and comment by the state department of transportation.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 205)
Sec. 40-9. - Delegation of authority to administrative officer.
The mayor and city council hereby delegates to the administrative officer the authority to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove exemption plats, preliminary plats, final plats, lot combination plats, boundary line adjustments, and dedication plats; provided, however, that such delegation does not authorize the administrative officer to accept public improvements for the city council. The administrative officer is vested with the authority to review, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove land development and construction plans.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 401)
Sec. 40-10. - Delegation of authority to city engineer.
The city engineer is vested with the authority to require and approve, conditionally approve, or deny approval of preliminary plats, final plats, land development applications, and subdivision and land development improvements. The city engineer shall require improvement guarantees for public improvements as specified in this chapter. The city engineer is further authorized to promulgate additional technical standards and construction specifications for land development improvements not already specified by this chapter or the city's zoning ordinance, including, but not limited to, water systems, sanitary sewer systems, streets, storm drainage systems, utilities, driveways, curb cuts, and parking lots.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 402)
Sec. 40-11. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter shall apply to all lands within the corporate limits of the city, as they existed at the time the ordinance from which this chapter is derived was adopted, and all lands subsequently annexed into the corporate limits.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 403)
Sec. 40-12. - Land is one tract until subdivided.
Until property proposed for subdivision has received final plat approval and been properly recorded, the land involving the subdivision shall be considered as one tract, or as otherwise legally recorded.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 404)
Sec. 40-13. - Subdivision of land.
No person shall subdivide land except in accordance with this chapter. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent or subdivider, by deed or map, to sell, transfer, or subdivide any land until a preliminary plat, if required, and final plat have been approved by the administrative officer and final plat recorded in accordance with this chapter. The restriction applies to lands subdivided for nonresidential as well as residential uses. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt the transaction from this chapter or from the penalties established herein. The city through its attorney or other designated official may enjoin such transfer of, sale, or agreement by appropriate action.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 405)
Sec. 40-14. - Development of land.
No person shall disturb or develop land except in accordance with this chapter. It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, owner, agent or subdivider, by deed or map, to disturb or develop any land until a land development plans have been approved by the administrative officer in accordance with this chapter and chapter 46. No person shall commence construction of any improvements on any lot, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat if required by this chapter, nor prior to approval of construction plans and engineering plans for the improvements as required by this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 406)
Sec. 40-15. - Building and other permits.
No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a building, structure, or use, nor shall any excavation, grading, or land disturbance applications be approved, on any parcel of land regulated by this chapter that has not been approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 407)
Sec. 40-16. - Public streets and lands.
No land dedicated as a public street or for other public purpose shall be opened, extended or accepted as a public street or for any other public purpose unless required improvements are constructed in accordance with the specifications of this chapter and accepted by the city council.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 408)
Sec. 40-17. - Lots must comply with the zoning regulations.
No person shall subdivide land, and the administrative officer shall not approve any subdivision of land, unless the lots created pursuant to the subdivision meet or exceed all applicable requirements of chapter 46, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 409)
Sec. 40-18. - Preliminary plat, development plans and development permit required.
No person shall commence development, land disturbing activity, or construction of any improvements on any lot or land except in compliance with this chapter. No development permit shall be issued for land disturbance or the installation of improvements, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat of such land, if required by this chapter, and the approval of a development permit if required by chapter 46, nor prior to approval by the administrative officer and the city engineer of engineered plans for land disturbance and installation of improvements.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 410)
Sec. 40-19. - Recording of subdivision plats.
No subdivision plat, nor part thereof, shall be recorded in the superior court of the county, unless such plat has been approved for recording by the administrative officer. The clerk of the superior court of the county shall not record a plat of a subdivision, whether evidenced as a plat or as an attachment to a deed, unless such plat is a final plat approved by the administrative officer or designated representative and contains the administrative officer's signature thereon.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 411)
Sec. 40-20. - Exemptions from plat approval.
The following types of land subdivisions, transfers, and sales are specifically exempted from the plat approval requirements of this chapter; provided, however, that such exemptions shall not apply to land development requirements and improvement requirements of this chapter:
(1)
The creation and sale of cemetery plots.
(2)
The sale of lots consistent with previously approved and recorded plats or deeds.
(3)
The creation of leaseholds for space within a multiple-occupancy building or the division of property into leaseholds (but not for sale) for commercial, industrial, or institutional use.
(4)
The creation of leaseholds (but not for sale) for the agricultural use of property where the use does not involve the construction of a building to be used as a residence or for other purposes not directly related to agricultural use of the land or crops or livestock raised thereon.
(5)
Any division of land to heirs through a judicial estate proceeding, or any division of land pursuant to a judicial partition, or any division of land occurring from the foreclosure of a deed of trust; provided, however, that such exemption shall not require the city to issue permits if the resulting lots or parcels fail to meet any applicable zoning ordinance provisions in chapter 46 regarding lot size, lot width, and other dimensional requirements.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 412)
Sec. 40-21. - Exemption from plan approval.
The land development plan requirements specified in this chapter shall not apply to any individual lot which was platted in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and is to be used for a detached, single-family, fee-simple residence or two-family dwelling (duplex). Nor shall such land development plan requirements apply to any individual lot that lawfully existed (see definition of lot of record) that is (or is to be) developed for a detached, single-family, fee-simple residence or a two-family dwelling (duplex). A development permit, as required by the city zoning regulations, and the submission of land development plans pursuant to this chapter shall not be required for detached, single-family, fee-simple residences or two-family dwellings.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 413)
Sec. 40-22. - Pre-application conference.
Whenever the subdivision of a tract of land, or a land development, is proposed to be made, the subdivider or land developer is encouraged (but not required) to consult early and informally with the administrative officer. The subdivider or land developer may submit sketch plans and data showing existing conditions within the site and its vicinity, and the proposed layout and development of the subdivision or land development. This preapplication conference is intended to permit an early evaluation of the subdivider's or land developer's intentions and coordination with the comprehensive plan of the city, and to provide the subdivider or land developer with the necessary regulations in order to properly accomplish the proposed project. No fee shall be charged for the preapplication review, and no formal application shall be required.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 501)
Sec. 40-23. - Application for preliminary plat approval.
The purpose of this section is to ensure compliance with the basic design concepts and improvement requirements of subdivisions through the submittal of a preliminary plat. Any subdivision involving the dedication of a public street or public land, and any subdivision involving a new private street, shall require the submission of a preliminary plat to the administrative officer for review by the administrative officer, city engineer, and design review board, and approval by the city council. Applications for preliminary plat approval shall meet the requirements of table 40.1.
TABLE 40.1. APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
EXPAND
Requirement Preliminary Plat Land Development Plans Final Plat
Pre-application review with staff Encouraged Encouraged
Application form completed Required Required Required
Letter requesting approval with name, address, and phone of applicant Required
Number of copies of plat/plans Eight Three Ten
Filing fee per resolution/schedule Required Required Required
Description of type of water supply and sewerage system and utilities to be provided Required Required Required
Soil test for each lot proposed for on-site septic tank and drainfield Required Required Required
Data on existing conditions Required
Hydrological or other engineering study May be required
Warranty deed for the dedication of streets and other public places Required
Written approval from electric utility company regarding installation of service points and street lights Required
As-built drawings of public improvements Required
Subdivision improvement guarantee Required
Certificate of title Required
Plat certificates Required
  (Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 502)
Sec. 40-24. - Plat and plan specifications.
Preliminary plats, land development plans, and final plats shall meet the following specifications as shown in table 40.2.
TABLE 40.2. PLAT AND PLAN SPECIFICATIONS
EXPAND
Information required Preliminary plat Land development plans Final plat
Scale (minimum) One inch = 100 feet One inch = 100 feet One inch = 100 feet
Sheet size (maximum) 24 inches × 36 inches 24 inches × 36 inches 17 inches × 22 inches
North arrow and graphic engineering scale Required Required Required
Reference to north point (magnetic, true north, or grid north) Required
Proposed name of subdivision or project and phases, if any Required Required Required
Vicinity map Required Required Required
Total acreage of the property being subdivided or developed Required Required Required
Name, address, and telephone of owner of record Required Required Required
Name, address and telephone of subdivider or land developer Required Required Required
Name, address and telephone of preparer of plat or plans Required Required Required
Date of plat or plan drawing and revision dates if any Required Required Required
Exact boundaries of the tract to be subdivided or developed by bearings and distances, tied to one or more benchmarks Required Required Required
Names of owners of record of all abutting land Required Required
Municipal, county and land lot lines inside the property or within 500 feet Required Required Required
Existing buildings and structures on or encroaching on the tract to be subdivided or developed Required Required Required
Existing streets, utilities and easements on and adjacent to the tract Required Required Required
Environmental conditions (streams, wetlands, watershed protection districts, flood hazard areas, river corridor boundaries, etc.) Required Required Required
Block boundaries lettered and each lot numbered consecutively counterclockwise without repetition Required Required
Dimensions and acreage of all lots Approximate Approximate Exact
Locations of streets, alleys, lots, open spaces, and any public use reservations or common areas Required Required Required
Right-of-way widths and pavement widths for existing and proposed streets Required Required
Locations, widths and purposes of easements Required Required
Street centerlines showing angles of deflection, angles of intersection, radii, and lengths of tangents and arcs, and degree of curvature and curve data Required Required
Acreage to be dedicated to the public Required Required
Street names Required Required
Topography at no less than five-foot contours Required Required Not Shown
Minimum front building setback lines for all lots Required Required Required
Location and description of all monuments Required
Certificate of ownership and dedication Required
Plat recording and signature block Required
Land surveyor's stamp, certificate, signature, including field survey and closure statement Required Required
Statement of and reference to private covenants, if any Required Required
Schedule of construction for all proposed projects with particular attention to development planned for the first year Required Required
  (Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 503)
Sec. 40-25. - Transmittal of preliminary plat to review agencies.
The administrative officer shall transmit for review and comment a copy of the preliminary plat to the city engineer and, when involving property abutting a state route, to the state department of transportation. At his discretion, the administrative officer may transmit for review and comment a copy of the plat to applicable internal and external review agencies, such as but not limited to: the city attorney, the city fire chief, the city building inspector, the county health department, the state department of natural resources, and any other agency that may have an interest in or jurisdiction over the proposed subdivision. The administrative officer shall consider such comments and may recommend conditions of preliminary plat approval to be consistent with the comments.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 504)
Sec. 40-26. - Review by the design review board.
Upon receipt of a completed preliminary plat application, the administrative officer shall schedule the application for the next public meeting before the design review board and forward all pertinent materials in the application to the design review board for review. An application for preliminary plat approval must be submitted at least 30 days before the regular meeting date of the design review board to be considered on that agenda. The design review board shall have 30 days from the date it is first considered at a public meeting of the commission to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat application. The basis of the design review board's review of and action on a preliminary plat shall be whether the preliminary plat meets the purposes and requirements of this chapter and chapter 46.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 505)
Sec. 40-27. - Approval by the city council.
As soon as practicable after the design review board has made a recommendation, the preliminary plat application shall be scheduled for consideration by the city council. The city council may deny, approve, approve with conditions, or postpone action for a definite period on the preliminary plat. Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a period of two years, after which time a complete application for development plan approval must be submitted. If a completed application for development plan approval is not submitted during that time, preliminary plat approval shall expire and be null and void.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 506)
Sec. 40-28. - Amendments to preliminary plat approval.
The administrative officer, in consultation with the city engineer when engineering considerations are involved, is authorized to approve minor amendments to preliminary plats (i.e., those that do not affect the public or private street configuration or that reconfigure lots and which do not increase the number of lots). The application requirements and procedures for amending preliminary plats, unless minor in nature, shall be the same as for preliminary plat applications.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 507)
Sec. 40-29. - Submittal of land development plans.
Following approval of the preliminary plat for a land subdivision, or if subdivision is not proposed, upon proposing a land development, the subdivider or land developer shall submit an application for land development approval per the requirements of table 5.1 for land development plans. The land development plans shall at minimum include information specified in table 5.2 for land development plans. The plans shall consist of the following:
(1)
Utility plans providing information regarding the location, size, length and type of all water, sanitary sewer and storm drainage improvements showing their minor structures, appendages and connections with existing systems, and the approximate location of service lines from the lots to the proposed utility lines.
(2)
Street plans providing information as follows: street profiles and cross sections as required by the city engineer, type of sub-base, type of paving base, type curb and gutter; type street paving and type improvements within the street right-of-way outside of the paved area.
(3)
Grading plans and soil sedimentation and erosion control plans.
(4)
In addition to utility, street, grading and erosion control plans, the administrative officer or city engineer may require a hydrological study or other engineering studies as may be necessary, depending upon the scope and extent of the development project.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 508)
Sec. 40-30. - Review and approval of plans.
(a)
Upon receipt of the completed land development plans by the administrative officer, he shall review them for compliance with this chapter, the zoning regulations in chapter 46, and any other applicable local regulations. The administrative officer shall have ten working days to certify compliance with planning and zoning requirements and non-engineering aspects of the land development plans. The only basis upon which the administrative officer may deny a development plan is the failure of the application to meet the requirements of this chapter or the city zoning regulations, or any other applicable local regulations or the failure of the development plans to be consistent with preliminary plat approval, if required.
(b)
Upon such certification of compliance, the administrative officer shall stamp them with the date approved and forward all three sets of plans to the city engineer. The city engineer shall have ten working days to review and approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the plans. If approved or conditionally approved, the city engineer shall provide his signature on the approved plans indicating the approval, retain one copy of the plans for records, return one copy to the applicant, and submit one copy to the administrative officer. If disapproved, the city engineer shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the disapproval. If the city engineer requires changes, they shall be rerouted to the administrative officer for review.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 509)
Sec. 40-31. - Issuance of development permit.
Upon approval or conditional approval of development plans, the administrative officer shall issue a development permit as required by chapter 46. Issuance of a development permit shall constitute authorization for the applicant to begin land disturbing activities and the construction of improvements, subject to any grading permits, soil erosion permits, or other permits and permissions as may be required by the city engineer.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 510)
Sec. 40-32. - Application for final plat approval.
In the case of a subdivision, after approval of a preliminary plat and upon completion of required improvements, the subdivider may then submit an application for final plat approval. The application shall meet the requirements for final plat applications as specified in table 5.1, and the final plat shall meet the specifications for final plats shown in table 5.2. In addition, the applicant for final plat shall submit to the administrative office the following:
(1)
One time-stable reproducible film copy or original of the plat;
(2)
A letter from the city engineer certifying that all required improvements have been constructed and meet the specifications of the city. The subdivider shall, upon completion of the required improvements outlined in this chapter, request in writing that the city engineer report by letter that all improvements required by this chapter have been completed according to city specifications. When such improvements comply, the city engineer shall write a letter of compliance addressed to the subdivider with a copy to the administrative officer stating the subdivision complies with the provisions of this chapter. Prior to writing such letter, the administrative officer or building inspector shall inspect all underground installations, sub-grades, bases or courses of asphalt, and such improvements shall not be covered or hidden before they are inspected and accepted by the administrative officer or building inspector;
(3)
A letter from the applicable electricity service company may be required indicating that service points for individual lots and street lights, if required, have been installed;
(4)
A performance bond for those required improvements not yet completed (e.g., pavement topping), if such delay in completion of required improvements is permitted by the administrative officer. The performance bond shall be:
a.
Conditioned upon the faithful performance by the subdivider or developer of all work required within a specified time;
b.
Payable to, and for the indemnification of, the city;
c.
In an amount equal to the cost of construction of the required improvements not yet completed, plus an additional ten percent of the costs, as calculated by the city engineer;
d.
With surety by a company entered and licensed to do business in the state; and
e.
Approved as to form and content by the city attorney;
(5)
A maintenance bond, cash deposit, escrow account or other guarantee/instrument of financial security as approved by the city attorney to ensure maintenance of required improvements in the subdivision for a period of one year, payable to the city and in the amount of ten percent of the city engineer's estimate of actual construction cost. If, upon being notified of failure of required improvements, the subdivider does not correct the deficiency or commence work within 30 days of notice, it shall be deemed to be a failure on the bond, and the city shall have the right to make the necessary repairs, either by public work or by private contract, and the bond or instrument of financial security shall be liable for the full amount of the cost of the repairs, as determined by the city engineer;
(6)
As-built drawings acceptable to the city engineer of all streets showing the planned and actual location of all utility lines; centerline profile of all streets with final grades; and horizontal and vertical alignment including profiles and invert elevations of all storm and sanitary sewer lines; provided, however, the administrative officer may waive this final plat submittal requirement for a set period of time if improvements or as-built drawings are not complete, subject to subsequent denial of building permits should the drawings not be submitted.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 511)
Sec. 40-33. - Final plat specifications and certificates.
The final plat shall be drawn to comply with the specifications in table 5.2 for final plats. Certificates shall be included on the final plat, as follows:
(1)
Final surveyor's certificate.
It is hereby certified that this plat is true and correct and was prepared from an actual survey of the property made by me or under my supervision; that all monuments shown hereon actually exist and their location, size, type and material are correctly shown; and that this plat meets all requirements of the city subdivision and land development regulations and zoning regulations.
EXPAND
By:  _____ Surveryor No. ___________
_____
Date
  (2)
Certificate of ownership and dedication.
(State)
(City)
The owner of record of the land shown on this plat and whose name is subscribed thereto, and in person or through a duly authorized agent, certifies that he owns the land shown on this plat to be subdivided and hereby dedicates to the public forever, subject to formal acceptance by the city council, the following:
EXPAND
Public Streets _____ acres
Public Drains _____ acres
Public Easements _____ acres
Public Parks/Open Space _____ acres
  EXPAND
_____
Typed Name of Subdivider _____
Typed Name of Owner of Record
_____
Signature of Subdivider _____
Signature of Owner of Record
_____
Date
  (3)
Certificate of approval.
FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
The administrative officer and city engineer of the city certify that this plat complies with the city zoning regulations, conditions of zoning, and the subdivision and land development regulations of the city, and that this plat is hereby approved and released for recording purposes.
EXPAND
_____
City engineer, city
_____
Date
_____
Administrative officer, city
_____
Date
  (4)
Certification of health department approval.
This is to certify that this plat and proposed water and sewerage facilities are acceptable.
EXPAND
_____
Rabun County Health Department
_____
Date
  (5)
Certificate of recording.
This plat has been recorded in plat book ___, page ___, in the records of the Clerk of Superior Court, Rabun County, Georgia.
EXPAND
_____
Clerk, Rabun County Superior Court
_____
Date
  (Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 512)
Sec. 40-34. - Action on the final plat.
(a)
Upon receipt of the completed final plat application, the administrative officer may transmit for review and comment a copy of the plat to applicable review agencies. The administrative officer shall have ten working days to approve or disapprove of the plat. The administrative officer may grant final plat approval if the following conditions, as applicable, are met:
(1)
A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, if required, has been previously approved by the city council.
(2)
Where new improvements are involved in the subdivision, development plans have been approved by the administrative officer and the city engineer, all improvements have been installed, improvements have been inspected by the city engineer, and subdivision improvement guarantees as required by this chapter have been submitted.
(3)
The final plat meets all applicable requirements of this chapter.
(4)
A complete final plat application has been submitted, including all supporting materials required by this chapter for final plats.
(b)
Final plats and applications that meet the above-referenced conditions shall be considered a ministerial action by the administrator. Denial of a final plat shall be permitted only upon specific findings that one or more of the above-referenced conditions have not been met.
(c)
If the plat is in conformance with the preliminary plat and is approved by the administrative officer and the city engineer, the signatures of the administrative officer and city engineer shall be placed on the reproducible film copy or original of the plat.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 513)
Sec. 40-35. - Recording of final plats.
Upon approval and without undue delay, the administrative officer shall have approved final plats recorded in the records of the clerk of the superior court of the county, and a time-stable reproducible film copy or original filed in the office of the administrative officer. The copy of the original shall not require an engineer or surveyor's stamp to protect the liability of the professionals involved. Recording fees shall be included in the fee charged for final plats and therefore paid by the city. The clerk of the superior court shall indicate on the filed copy, as well as the time-stable reproducible film copy or original, the book and page number in the county records where the final plat is recorded. Recordation of a final plat constitutes approval to begin the sale or transfer of subdivision lots.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 514)
Sec. 40-36. - Assignment of street addresses.
At the time a building permit is proposed, the administrative officer shall ensure that the property has been assigned a street address. Addresses shall be as assigned or approved by the county 911 staff.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 515)
Sec. 40-37. - Dedications of public streets and acceptance of improvements.
(a)
At any date after one year has passed since the date of final plat approval, the subdivider may petition in writing to the administrative officer for the city council by resolution to accept public streets and other dedications, in whole or in part, within the subdivision. The improvements shall not be accepted for maintenance until approved by resolution by the city council. Any instrument of financial guarantee shall be returned to the subdivider upon acceptance of public streets and improvements by the city council.
(b)
Subdivision streets and rights-of-way and other lands to be dedicated to the public shall be accepted by the city only upon the delivery to the city council of a general warranty deed conveying fee-simple title of such rights-of-way and lands. The warranty deed shall be accompanied by an attorney's certificate of title and a tax transfer form addressed to the city council certifying that the grantor in such deed is vested with marketable fee-simple title to the property conveyed thereby, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, and further that the individual executing such deed has full authority to do so.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 516)
Sec. 40-38. - Minor subdivisions.
The administrative officer is authorized to review and approve or deny applications for minor subdivisions as defined by this chapter, as a final plat, provided that application is made for minor subdivision approval in accordance with all specifications for final plats as required by this chapter. The county health department shall also review and approve the plat. The administrative officer shall not approve a minor subdivision if any portion of the land to be subdivided was part of a minor subdivision approved by the city within the last three years prior to application.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 517)
Sec. 40-39. - Lot combinations and boundary line adjustments.
(a)
An existing lot line forming the boundary between two conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or a lot line between lots or parcels that have merged to form one building lot may be removed or eliminated through a final plat revision process which conforms to the final plat requirements of this chapter. Where separate lots of land are proposed to be combined, they shall be submitted to the administrative officer as a final plat for review, approval and recording. In the case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat depicting all lots involved in the lot combination shall be required to be approved by the administrative officer and recorded as a final plat. Such combination plat shall be titled with the same name as that of the original subdivision, if applicable, and shall indicate thereon that the replat is for the purpose of removing the lot lines between specific lots.
(b)
One or more existing lot lines forming boundaries between conforming platted lots located within the same subdivision or one or more lot lines between abutting lots or parcels may be adjusted through a final plat revision process that requires the approval of the administrative officer and recording of a plat meeting the specifications of a final plat. In case no final plat applies to the subject lots or parcels, a boundary survey and plat of the entire lots involved in the boundary line adjustment shall be required to be approved by the administrative officer and recorded.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 518)
Sec. 40-40. - Distribution of recorded final plat.
(a)
The final plat is a source of essential information to tax officials, public safety officials, and utility officials, among others. The administrative officer shall be responsible for ensuring that each agency listed in this section receives a copy of the final recorded plat with assigned addresses:
(1)
The county tax commissioner.
(2)
The county tax assessor.
(3)
The county health department.
(4)
The city police department.
(5)
The city fire department.
(6)
The city building inspector.
(7)
The city engineer.
(8)
The Unites States Postal Service (local postmaster).
(b)
At the discretion of the administrative officer, additional agencies or persons may be added to the list in subsection (a) of this section.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 519)
Secs. 40-41—40-68. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STORM DRAINAGE AND UTILITIES

Sec. 40-69. - Easements.
Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage easement of minimum 20 feet in width. Easements for storm pipes shall be at least ten feet wide, and all easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city engineer. Where easements are needed for utility locations, they shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer to the appropriate utility provider. Easements having a minimum width of 15 feet shall be provided where required for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where easements are needed for public water or sanitary sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the city engineer but shall be no less than 20 feet wide. All easements required pursuant to this section shall be shown on the preliminary plat if required, final plat if required, and land development plans.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 901)
Sec. 40-70. - Storm drainage system.
Storm drainage is handled by meeting the state environmental protection division's requirements for soil erosion and sediment control.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 902)
Sec. 40-71. - Water system.
All water mains shall be installed along with a service connection for each lot or land development and be in operating condition prior to final plat approval if required and paving installation. The water system shall be connected to the city water system unless another source approved by the county health department is accepted by the city council. All pipes, valves, and other components shall conform to city and county health department specifications and regulations and city engineer.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 903)
Sec. 40-72. - Fire hydrants.
(a)
Fire hydrants shall be located and set in accordance with city specifications. Fire hydrants shall be required for all nonresidential land developments and all subdivisions. Fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer as required by the city fire department. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 500 feet apart and within 250 feet of any principal dwelling. Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the fire department.
(b)
Fire department connections shall be not less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving. The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the fire department. To eliminate the repavement of streets, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 904)
Sec. 40-73. - Sanitary sewerage system.
(a)
When, in the written opinion of the city engineer, public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the subdivision or land development, the subdivider or land developer shall provide sanitary sewer services to each lot within the bounds of the subdivision or land development. All street sewers serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the city engineer to provide for a sharing of the costs of other sewer facilities needed to serve the subdivision or land development when certain of the required sewer facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions or land developments in the same drainage basin.
(b)
When, in the written opinion of the city engineer, a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot or the land development may be used when in compliance with the standards of the county health department, if accepted by the city council.
(c)
If public sewerage is not available but is expected to be available within a six-month time period after completion of the subdivision or land development, an alternate method for sewage disposal for individual lots or the land development will be required on an interim basis. In this instance, unless otherwise determined by the city council, the developer will be required to construct a complete sanitary sewer system for the subdivision or land development, including outfall lines, street sewers, and service stubs to individual lots. All sewers will be plugged and otherwise protected to ensure serviceability at the time of connection to the public system, and will conform to the specifications of the city.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 905)
Sec. 40-74. - Utilities.
The gas and electric systems and any other underground utility system, when it is provided in a subdivision or land development, shall be installed along with service connections before any paving of streets. All utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas, electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 906)
Secs. 40-75—40-91. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CORRIDOR MAP

Sec. 40-92. - Purpose and intent.
The purposes of a corridor map are to implement local comprehensive plans, especially transportation and thoroughfare plans, by reserving land needed for future transportation facilities designated by a plan. The corridor map is intended to provide a basis for coordinating the provision of transportation facilities with new development by designating corridors where the construction and improvement of transportation facilities is expected, to restrict the construction or expansion of permanent structures in the intended right-of-way of planned transportation facilities as indicated on a corridor map, and to protect the rights of landowners whose land is reserved on a corridor map.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1001)
Sec. 40-93. - Findings and corridor map adoption.
The city council reserves the right individually or collectively to adopt a corridor map that is consistent in all respects with the comprehensive plan or plans of participating municipalities. Prior to adoption of a corridor map, the following actions shall be taken to ensure procedural due process:
(1)
Prior to public hearing, if the proposed corridor map includes land intended for transportation facilities to be constructed or improved by governmental units other than the participating municipalities, a copy of the proposed corridor map shall be submitted to the chief executive officer of each such governmental unit who shall be allowed 30 days to indicate in writing any reserved land for transportation facilities for which they are responsible that they want removed from the corridor map, in which case such reserved land shall be removed from the corridor map.
(2)
At least 15 days before the public hearing, the administrative officer shall notify the public of the date, time, place, and nature of the public hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the territory of the local government or governments with jurisdiction.
(3)
The administrative officer shall notify all owners of parcels of land that include proposed reserved land of the date, time, place, and nature of the public hearing by mail at least 15 days before the public hearing.
(4)
The city council shall hold a public hearing at the date, time, and place advertised, and afford all interested individuals the opportunity to be heard concerning the proposed corridor map.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1003)
Sec. 40-94. - General provisions.
The administrative officer shall not issue any permit pertaining to zoning or development on land regulated by this article except pursuant to the procedures and in compliance with this article. This article does not forbid or restrict the use of any reserved land that does not constitute the development of that land, nor does this article forbid or restrict development on the unreserved portion of any reserved land.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1004)
Sec. 40-95. - Development permit required to develop reserved land.
An owner of reserved land who proposes to develop reserved land shall apply to the administrative officer for a development permit. It is unlawful to carry out development upon land shown as reserved on the corridor map without securing a development permit as required by chapter 46.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1005)
Sec. 40-96. - Public hearing and notice on development permit.
Upon receiving an application for a development permit involving reserved land as shown on an adopted corridor map, the administrative officer shall arrange for the application to be scheduled for public hearing before the city council. The applicant (and the governmental unit, if land is reserved for a public use by a governmental unit other than the local government) shall be notified in writing of the date, time, and place of the hearing, by written mail, personal service, or facsimile, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. The public shall be given notice of the date, time, place, and nature of the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 15 days prior to the public hearing. The applicant shall, at the hearing, have an opportunity, personally or through counsel, to present evidence and argument in support of his application, as shall any governmental unit or interested individual that has an interest in the application.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1006)
Sec. 40-97. - Action.
Following the public hearing, the city council may take one of the following actions:
(1)
Approve the development permit as proposed, with or without conditions, modify the mapped corridor to remove all or part of the reserved land from the mapped corridor, and issue with or without conditions the development permit authorizing development on the land removed from the mapped corridor.
(2)
Modify the proposed development permit application and issue it for development as modified, with or without conditions, if the development can reasonably be accomplished on the subject parcel without encroaching on the reserved land.
(3)
Delay action on the development permit for a defined period of time not to exceed three months for the purpose of any of the following: negotiating with the property owner for the purchase of all or a part of the reserved land by the governmental agency responsible for the transportation facilities; acquiring the reserved land voluntarily; acquiring a negative easement over the reserved land that prevents the property owner from building on the reserved land; taking the reserved land through eminent domain and the payment of just compensation.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1007)
Sec. 40-98. - Authority to acquire reserved land for public use.
After consideration of the development permit by the city council, the city council or other governmental unit responsible for the transportation facilities may, but shall not be obligated to, negotiate for the voluntary dedication of the land, enter into option to purchase, or it may initiate condemnation proceedings subject to applicable state laws and use its powers of eminent domain.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1008)
Sec. 40-99. - Final action on the development permit.
If the city council delays action on the development permit as provided by this article and the governmental agency responsible for transportation facilities on the reserved land fails to arrange for the legal acquisition of all or a part of the reserved land within the specified time period which shall not exceed three months, then the city council shall approve the development permit, with or without conditions, or in the absence of such approval, the development permit shall be deemed approved as submitted.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1009)
Secs. 40-100—40-126. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS

Sec. 40-127. - Purpose and intent.
This article is intended to provide for residential subdivisions that are designed based first and foremost on the preservation of open space, but that accommodate the full extent of development that would otherwise be legally possible under conventional subdivision designs, and that:
(1)
Minimize the environmental and visual impacts of new development on critical resources and historically and culturally significant sites and structures.
(2)
Contribute to an interconnected network of permanent open space in the community and provide for undivided or relatively undivided open spaces within new developments.
(3)
Create a greater diversity of living environments than is possible with conventional residential subdivision developments.
(4)
Foster informal social interaction among neighborhood residents in common open spaces.
(5)
Reduce the demand on public expenditures for open space, parkland, play fields, and other areas for active and passive recreation.
(6)
Encourage compact patterns that reduce capital costs by requiring less linear footage distances of roads and utilities than conventional subdivision development.
(7)
Offer greater opportunities to implement environmentally sensitive sewage treatment and disposal systems.
(8)
Meet design requirements and guidelines established in this article for the protection of conservation areas, the subdivision of land, the location and orientation of homes and structures, and the installation of improvements.
(9)
Permit open space conservation subdivisions by right so that they are no more difficult to gain approval from the city council than are conventional subdivisions.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1101)
Sec. 40-128. - Relationship to other regulations.
(a)
Zoning districts and permitted uses. Conservation subdivisions as described and regulated in this article are permitted as a by-right permitted use in all residential zoning districts. They are considered appropriate in exurban, rural, suburban, and urban areas. Use restrictions of the zoning district shall continue to apply.
(b)
Zoning district densities. Conservation subdivisions shall not exceed the residential density in units per acre as established for the residential zoning district in which it is located.
(c)
Lot size and width. Minimum lot sizes, minimum lot widths, and building setbacks of the residential zoning district in which the conservation subdivision is located may be reduced to no less than 50 percent of the required lot size or lot width for the zoning district in which it is located.
(d)
Building setbacks. Building setbacks shall be proposed on the preliminary plat and shall be subject to the approval of the city council.
(e)
Subdivision regulations. Conservation subdivisions shall be considered and processed in accordance with preliminary and final plats requirements as specified in this article, except that in addition, the criteria for approval and grounds for disapproval as provided in this article shall also apply to decisions on preliminary plats.
(f)
Improvement requirements. Open space conservation subdivisions shall meet the improvement requirements of this article. Where design considerations for lots and blocks as more specifically recommended in this article, they shall be considered applicable recommendations in lieu of those found in other articles of this article which would otherwise be applied.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1103)
Sec. 40-129. - Primary conservation areas.
Primary conservation areas on lands in conventional subdivisions are permitted to be platted and included in adjacent residential lots. In contrast, a conservation subdivision incorporates and shall include all primary conservation areas into undivided or relatively undivided, permanent, open space. Primary conservation areas, as defined by this article, include the following: habitats for endangered or threatened species, wetlands, aquifer recharge areas, floodplains, water bodies, shorelines, and adjacent riparian zones or upland buffers, historic, cultural, and archaeological sites, and steep slopes.
Primary Conservation Areas
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1104)
Sec. 40-130. - Secondary conservation areas.
Secondary conservation areas on lands in conventional subdivisions are rarely identified and conserved. In contrast, a conservation subdivision identifies and shall identify secondary conservation areas and shall integrate all or a portion of them into undivided or relatively undivided, permanent, open spaces.
Secondary Conservation Areas
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1105)
Sec. 40-131. - Required open space specifications.
(a)
Minimum percent of site area. Each open space conservation subdivision shall provide a minimum of 40 percent of its total land area as open space, as defined by this article. Areas of aboveground utility right-of-way and impervious surfaces must be excluded from the minimum 40 percent.
(b)
Minimum size. The minimum amount of open space required to qualify for an open space conservation subdivision shall be 1½ contiguous acres. The purpose of this minimum open space acreage is to avoid development proposals where minor subdivisions are used simply to reduce lot sizes and development costs or that provide only small, scattered open spaces that would not functionally contribute to the overall open space network of the surrounding area.
(c)
Permitted uses. In the case of farmland conversion, part of the open space within a conservation subdivision may be permitted to be retained in the hands of the original farmer/landowner or leased to a farmer for agricultural, pasture, or horticulture uses, so long as the activity is undertaken using best management practices to reduce environmental impacts to the extent possible. Open space may not be used for golf courses, roadways, or water impoundments. No more than 25 percent of the open space may by used for active recreation spaces. Uses not expressly authorized via the preliminary plat process are prohibited.
(d)
Open spaces shall be named. Each open space shall be given a name appropriate to its purpose and design. Acceptable identifying types of names for open spaces include, but are not limited to, "Common," "Park," "Green," "Meadow," "Woods," "Farm," and "Historic Site."
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1106)
Sec. 40-132. - Conservation easement required.
All primary conservation areas, and all secondary conservation areas shown on the preliminary plat and required to be retained as open space, shall be permanently protected from further subdivision, development, and unauthorized use by a conservation easement. A conservation easement, as defined, shall be approved by the city and co-signed by the city and donated to a conservation organization or land trust; or co-signed by the city, donated to a homeowners' association and co-signed by a conservation organization or land trust; or donated to the city if accepted by the city and co-signed by a conservation organization or land trust. In the case of farmland conversion, part of the open space within a conservation subdivision may be permitted to be retained in the hands of the original farmer/landowner if subject to a conservation easement meeting the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1107)
Sec. 40-133. - Guidelines for drafting conservation easements.
The following guidelines are offered for drafting conservation easements and may be required by the city council:
(1)
The easement recognizes and describes in a statement of purpose the special qualities of the property subject to the easement. The easement must include a map of the tract noting all significant features within the area. The easement clearly identifies the owner of the property subject to the easement, the holder of the easement, and co-signer, and the responsibilities of the property owner, easement holder, and co-signer.
(2)
The easement specifically and clearly identifies the boundaries of the property subject to the easement, preferably by metes and bounds legal description and survey plat.
(3)
The easement contains restrictions as to what the owner may do with the property and specifically delineates what may not be done with the property. Limitations may include, but may not be confined to, prohibitions against subdivision, earthmoving, dumping, signs, utility lines, construction, changes to existing structures, and uses made of the property.
(4)
The easement provides for the right of the easement holder and co-signer to inspect the property to ensure observance of restrictions. It also provides for enforcement procedures.
(5)
The easement provides for the maintenance of property.
(6)
The easement contains provisions governing its amendment, including provisions that the easement shall not be altered except with the express written permission of the easement holder, property owner, and any co-signers.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1108)
Sec. 40-134. - Homeowners' association.
Open spaces may be owned and managed in common by a homeowners' association, subject to compliance with the provisions of this article and the following requirements:
(1)
The developer of the conservation subdivision shall provide to the administrative official for approval, prior to the approval of a preliminary plat, a description of the homeowners' association, including bylaws and methods for maintaining open space. The developer of the open space conservation subdivision shall provide a property management plan or an estimate of the costs and staff requirements for the maintenance, operation, and insurance of the open space and any facilities it includes in the description of methods for maintaining the subdivision's open space.
(2)
The homeowners' association shall be established by the conservation subdivision developer and endowed with a financial subsidy from the developer prior to the approval of a final plat on the property involving an open space conservation subdivision.
(3)
Homeowners' association membership of each non-open space lot owner in the open space conservation subdivision shall be mandatory (required) and automatic.
(4)
Unless maintenance is assigned to a conservation organization or land trust, the homeowners' association shall be responsible for maintenance, insurance, and taxes on the open space within the open space conservation subdivision. In such cases, the association shall be required to assess dues for the maintenance of open space, purchase of insurance, and payment of taxes, unless another income source is proven to be available. Members of the association shall share equitably the costs of open space maintenance as indicated in bylaws. The association shall be empowered with the legal ability to place liens on non-open space lot owners for failure to pay association dues.
(5)
The homeowners' association shall not be dissolved without the consent of the city council. If common ownership of open spaces by a homeowners' association is proposed and approved, then open spaces shall be subject to permanent deed and final plat restrictions or covenants on the future use, development, and subdivision of open spaces, in addition to the requirement of a conservation easement.
(6)
The city council may, upon recommendation of the administrative officer, require that the homeowners' association establish a minimum amount of funds to be initially deposited and maintained in a maintenance account.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1109)
Sec. 40-135. - Fee simple dedication to the city.
(a)
Dedication in fee-simple ownership to the public for recreational or open space use is a possible mechanism for the permanent retention and maintenance of open spaces within the conservation subdivision, at the sole discretion of the city council, and subject to the following in addition to other applicable provisions of this article:
(1)
Dedication to the city shall only be approved if the city council finds that the size, shape, location, type of open space, or cost of development or maintenance of such open space or the availability of open space would make public ownership desirable or necessary.
(2)
The decision to accept open spaces for fee-simple public ownership shall be at the sole discretion of the city council but guided by recommendations of the administrative officer, design review board, and the comprehensive plan as it pertains to open space acquisition.
(3)
The city council generally will require dedication of all open space or park and recreation areas indicated for acquisition in the comprehensive plan or capital improvement program.
(b)
The city council may require a maintenance bond or other financial security with duration of 12 months following public acceptance in an amount sufficient to ensure that such lands do not cause unwarranted public expenditures because of faulty conditions or construction. The city council shall have authority to cash the bond in the event substandard conditions are evident. Otherwise, following the one-year period following public dedication, with satisfactory performance, the city council shall return the performance bond to the subdivider.
(c)
In addition to the required conservation easement, a deed for open space lands in a form acceptable to the city attorney in favor of the city shall be signed and recorded prior to the approval of any final plat pertaining to land within the conservation subdivision.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1110)
Sec. 40-136. - Application.
As a part of the preliminary plat application, the applicant for a conservation subdivision shall, in addition to the requirements for preliminary plats specified in this article, submit an analysis of existing features on the site, which shall, at a minimum, include the following:
(1)
Significant wildlife habitats, if any. If information on habitats is not available, the wildlife potential of various soil types on the site shall be identified and examined.
(2)
Soils, including analysis of suitability for septic tanks, erosion potential, prime farmland, and identification of hydric soils.
(3)
Wetlands.
(4)
Floodplains. Areas of 100-year floodplains as identified on flood hazard boundary maps or flood insurance rate maps developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(5)
Steep slopes.
(6)
Historic, archaeological, and cultural features.
(7)
Tree cover/woodlands.
(8)
Views into and out from the site, and any scenic qualities.
(9)
Groundwater recharge areas.
(10)
Property boundaries.
(11)
Existing roads and structures.
(12)
Greenspaces and trails traversing or adjacent to the site.
(13)
Planned boundaries of open space.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1111)
Sec. 40-137. - Consideration.
Approval or denial of a preliminary plat for a conservation subdivision shall, in addition to criteria specified elsewhere in this article for consideration of preliminary plats, be based on the extent to which the plat meets the following criteria:
(1)
All primary conservation areas are protected as permanent open space.
(2)
A sufficient amount of secondary conservation areas are protected as permanent open space, as opposed to being devoted to lots and other uses.
(3)
The configuration of the open space tract is contiguous and undivided, or open space is provided in relatively undivided tracts that cannot reasonably be reconfigured into one contiguous, undivided tract.
(4)
The open space conservation subdivision meets the regulations specified in this article.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1112)
Sec. 40-138. - Justifiable grounds for denial.
Reasons for the denial of a preliminary plat of a conservation subdivision include but are not limited to the following:
(1)
The application fails to fully identify primary and secondary conservation areas.
(2)
The proposed method of sewage treatment is inappropriate for the site or found to be potentially dangerous to public health.
(3)
One or more of the lots within the open space conservation subdivision are too small to meet the minimum lot size established by this article or even if compliant are out of character with residences on adjoining or nearby properties.
(4)
One or more of the lots are significantly large or wide, such that their design contributes to an unnecessary decrease in the amount of open space retained on site.
(5)
The street configuration does not provide for connectivity, or preserve natural features, or it is found to be inconsistent with the open space character of the subject property and its surroundings.
(6)
The proposed open space network is divided, not functional, inconsistent with open space plans of the city with jurisdiction, or does not provide for the protection of the most valuable secondary conservation areas on the site given the natural and scenic properties inherent on the site.
(7)
The proposed open space network fails to maximize the length of the common boundary between conservation areas on site and conservation areas or parkland abutting the open space conservation subdivision site.
(8)
The preliminary plat appears to be submitted for the major purpose of circumventing minimum lot size or minimum lot width requirements or improvement requirements that would otherwise be required for conventional subdivisions pursuant to the city zoning regulations.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1113)
Secs. 40-139—40-159. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 40-160. - Administration and interpretation.
The administrative officer shall administer and interpret the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1201)
Sec. 40-161. - Additional specifications.
The city engineer is hereby authorized to prepare and adopt standard drawings and constructions specifications for private and public improvements not specified in this article. Upon their adoption by the city council, they shall become mandatory.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1202)
Sec. 40-162. - Variances.
The city council shall be authorized to, upon application by the subdivider or land developer, grant a variance or variances upon a showing that each of the following criteria have been met which support the granting of a variance to the requirements of this article. The process of varying this article is distinguished from variances to zoning provisions as authorized by the city zoning regulations.
(1)
There are unusual, exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions applying to the property that do not apply generally to other property in the same vicinity or use district, and such conditions are not the result of the owner's or occupant's own actions. Such conditions may include topography, unique natural conditions, surroundings of the subject property, or the size or peculiar shape of the lot.
(2)
As a result of such unusual circumstance or conditions, there is an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulties that render it difficult to carry out the provisions of this article.
(3)
The authorization of such variance will not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property in the vicinity or district in which the property is located, and the variance will be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the provisions of this article.
(4)
The variance approved is the minimum variance that will make possible the legal use of the lots, land, building or structure.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1203)
Sec. 40-163. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by an interpretation or decision of the administrative official or city engineer in the administration or enforcement of this chapter may file an appeal to the city council.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1204)
Sec. 40-164. - Enforcement; violations and penalties.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the administrative officer to enforce this article and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations or lack of compliance therewith. The administrative officer may delegate enforcement functions, powers and duties assigned by this article to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need to reflect such delegation by formal action.
(b)
The administrative officer is hereby authorized and directed to deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new project or application pursuant to this article or other ordinances of the city where the applicant, applicant's business or agent has failed or refused to comply with this article.
(c)
The administrative officer is hereby authorized to issue written stop work and cease and desist orders for any activity that fails to comply with the provisions of this article. Such stop work or cease and desist orders may be lifted at such time as the administrative officer is satisfied that a good faith effort is being made to comply with applicable provisions of this article. Nothing shall prevent the administrative officer from reissuing stop work and cease and desist orders where warranted.
(d)
In any case where any land is, or is proposed to be, used in violation of this article, the administrative officer, with the assistance of the city attorney as may be required, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, abatement, or any appropriate action of actions, or proceeding to prevent, enjoin or abate such unlawful use.
(e)
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not to exceed $2,000.00, or by imprisonment for not more than 60 days, or both, as determined by the court of proper jurisdiction.
(Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1205)
Sec. 40-165. - Fees.
The following fees are hereby established, the intention being to recover the costs of professional review, including engineering, planning, and zoning compliance.
EXPAND
Type of Application Fee
Preliminary plat, 4 or fewer lots, in the mountain and hillside protection overlay district $150.00
Preliminary plat, 4 or fewer lots, not in the mountain and hillside protection overlay district 100.00
Preliminary plat, 5 or more lots, in the mountain and hillside protection overlay district 250.00
Preliminary plat, 5 or more lots, not in the mountain and hillside protection overlay district 200.00
Any development with the mountain and hillside protection overlay district, not otherwise classified 250.00
Development plan approval, office, institutional, commercial, or industrial development, 1—5 acres 250.00
Development plan approval, office, institutional, commercial, or industrial development, more than 5 acres 400.00
Final plat approval, major 150.00
Final plat approval, minor, including boundary line adjustments and lot combinations 100.00
Revision to final plat approval 100.00
Application submitted after land disturbing activity, site development, or building has commenced or lots sold without requisite approval or in violation of city regulations Double the fee for specific type of application
  (Ord. of 5-10-2005, § 1209)
