ARTICLE II. - OCCUPATION TAX[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Taxation of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations in a county or municipality, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6; taxes on businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7; prohibited practices in levying tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 12-29. - Levied.
(a)
Generally; calculation based on number of employees. An occupation tax based upon number of employees in the state is levied upon businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city and, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7, upon out-of-state businesses with no location or office in the city but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state in accordance with the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk.
(b)
Estimating number of employees. If a business or practitioner does not know how many employees which are the basis of this occupation tax will be employed by the business or practitioner during the current calendar year, then the business or practitioner shall file a return estimating the number of employees which are the basis of this occupation tax. If such estimate is not accurate, then no later than December 31 the business or practitioner shall file an amended return indicating the actual number of employees during the previous calendar year. Any overpayment of the occupation tax may be credited to the business or practitioner's account for future tax liability, offset against other amounts due and owing to the city for any reason or paid to the business or practitioner at the discretion of the city clerk.
(c)
Applicability to real estate brokers. Real estate brokers shall be subject to occupation tax pursuant to this article only if they maintain a principal or branch office in the city.
(Code 1999, §§ 62-156, 62-160, 62-161)
State Law reference— Taxation of businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations in a county or municipality, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6; taxes on businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location in state, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7; prohibited practices in levying tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-13.
Sec. 12-30. - Alternative method of taxation for certain professionals.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall pay the occupation tax levied by this article or shall pay an occupation tax as provided in the schedule of fees and charges on file in the office of the city clerk. On the tax return for 1995 or such later time as the practitioner first commences business in the city, the practitioner shall elect a method of taxation. Such election shall be changed for subsequent calendar years only by a written request filed by the practitioner on or before February 1 of the year in which the election is to be changed.
(Code 1999, § 62-163)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-9, 48-13-10.
Sec. 12-31. - Multiple locations.
Each location of a business shall be subject to taxation under this article, but the city shall not require the payment of more than one occupation tax per location of a business or more than one occupation tax per practitioner.
(Code 1999, § 62-157)
Sec. 12-32. - Taxpayers subject to other local governments.
(a)
A business or practitioner which is subject to an occupation tax by another local government and claiming an exemption from or limitation to the occupation tax imposed by this article shall submit documentation as to current payment of the occupation tax to the other local government and the basis of such tax.
(b)
If a business or practitioner with no location or office in the state provides to the city proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business's or practitioner's sales or services in this state, then the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this occupation tax.
(c)
A business or practitioner with no location or office in this state shall only be required to pay occupation tax to the local government in the state where the largest dollar volume of business is done or service is performed by such business or practitioner. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof as to the applicability of this subsection.
(d)
A business or practitioner which has locations in the state subject to occupation tax by more than one local government in the state shall only be subject to occupation tax by the city for the number of employees who are employed within the corporate limits of the city. This limitation shall only apply when the business or practitioner has provided to the city satisfactory proof of current payment of the occupation tax of the other local governments.
(e)
If an employee works for the same business or practitioner in more than one municipal corporation or county and the business or practitioner submits proof of this, the employee shall be counted as an employee in the city only if the city is the jurisdiction where such employee works for the longest period of time within the calendar year.
(Code 1999, § 62-158)
Sec. 12-33. - Exemptions.
(a)
No occupation tax shall be levied by this article on the following:
(1)
Any practitioner whose office is maintained by and who is employed in practice exclusively by the United States, the state, a municipality or county of the state, or instrumentality of the United States, the state, or a municipality or county of the state.
(2)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(3)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.
(4)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness.
(5)
Nonprofit, agricultural product cooperative marketing associations pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 2-10-105.
(6)
Insurance companies governed by O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
(7)
Motor common carriers pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 46-7-15.
(8)
Persons purchasing guano, meats, meal, flour, bran, cottonseed, or cottonseed meal or hulls in carload lots for distribution among the purchasers for use and not sale pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-355.
(9)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-5-356 for persons selling or introducing into the city agricultural products or livestock, including animal products, raised in this state when the sale and introduction are made by the producer of the product and the sale is made within 90 days of the introduction of the product into the city.
(10)
Disabled veterans and blind persons with proof of exemption under O.C.G.A. § 48-12-1.
(11)
Depository institutions pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-6-93.
(12)
Facilities operated by a charitable trust governed by O.C.G.A. § 48-13-55.
(13)
The sale of alcoholic beverages governed by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.
(14)
Any business where the levy of such occupation tax is prohibited by state law or the United States.
(b)
The exemptions and limitations contained in this section shall not be construed to repeal or otherwise affect in any way any franchise fees, business taxes or other fees or taxes otherwise allowed by law.
(Code 1999, § 62-164)
State Law reference— Exempt businesses and practitioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
Sec. 12-34. - Proration.
If a business or practitioner commences business in the city on or after July 1 in any year, the occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year. The administrative fee shall not be reduced.
(Code 1999, § 62-159)
Sec. 12-35. - Evidence of state registration.
Each person who is licensed under O.C.G.A. § 43-1-1 et seq. by the examining boards of the secretary of state's office shall provide evidence of proper and current state licensure before any city occupation tax certificate or regulatory fee certificate may be issued.
(Code 1999, § 62-165)
Sec. 12-36. - Evidence of qualification.
(a)
Any business required to obtain health permits, bonds, certificates of qualification, certificates of competency or any other regulatory matter shall first, before the issuance of an occupation tax certificate or a regulatory fee certificate, show evidence of such qualification.
(b)
Any business required to submit an annual application for continuance of the business shall do so before the registration is issued.
(Code 1999, § 62-166)
Sec. 12-37. - Certificate; display and possession.
Every business, practitioner and location subject to payment of the occupation tax levied by this article shall display a current occupation tax certificate in a conspicuous place at the location for which such certificate was issued. If the taxpayer does not have a permanent location within the city, the occupation tax certificate shall be shown to any police officer upon request.
(Code 1999, § 62-162)
State Law reference— Duty to post license in place of business, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-23.
Secs. 12-38—12-62. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - REPORTING AND PAYMENT

Sec. 12-63. - Filing returns; other information.
(a)
On or before November 1 of each year, an individual business or practitioner subject to this article shall file with the city clerk, on a form approved by and available from the city, a signed return attesting to the number of employees of such business or practitioner during the calendar year.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners doing business in the city shall submit to the city clerk or make available within 30 days such information as may be required or requested by the city to determine the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or regulatory fee or to facilitate levying or collection of the occupation tax or regulatory fees.
(Code 1999, § 62-167)
Sec. 12-64. - Confidentiality.
Information provided by a business or practitioner to the city for the purpose of determining the applicability and amount of the occupation tax or levying or collecting the occupation tax is confidential and exempt from disclosure under O.C.G.A. § 50-18-70 et seq. Such information may be provided to the governing body of another local government for occupation tax purposes or pursuant to court order or for the purpose of collecting occupation tax or prosecution for failure or refusal to pay occupation tax.
(Code 1999, § 62-168)
State Law reference— Confidentiality of information and penalties for violation, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-13-15, 33-8-10.
Sec. 12-65. - Date due.
Any occupation tax or regulatory fee due pursuant to this article shall be due and payable annually on December 31. If any person commences business or initially engages in a regulated activity in the city after January 1 in any year, the tax or fee shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business or regulated activity.
(Code 1999, § 62-169)
State Law reference— When payment due, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-20; penalty and interest on default in payment, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21.
Secs. 12-66—12-88. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 12-89. - Duties of city clerk.
It is the duty of the city clerk to administer and enforce the provisions of this article, to perform all functions necessary to administer and enforce this article and to summon violators of this article to appear before the municipal court. The city clerk may issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing.
(Code 1999, § 62-171)
Sec. 12-90. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
(a)
The city clerk shall issue executions against individuals, businesses and practitioners for taxes and fees which are due and owing. Such executions shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5 percent per month. The lien shall cover the property of the individual, business or practitioners liable for payment of the delinquent occupation tax or regulatory fee and become fixed as of the date and time the occupation tax or regulatory fee became delinquent.
(b)
The execution shall be levied by the city clerk upon property of the delinquent tax or fee payer located in the city and sufficient property shall be advertised and sold to pay the amount of the execution, including penalty, interest and costs. All other proceedings in relation thereto shall be as provided by this Code and the ordinances and charter of the city and state law.
(c)
The defendants at execution shall have the rights of defense, by affidavit of illegality of the tax or otherwise as provided by the city charter or state law in regard to tax executions.
(Code 1999, §§ 62-170, 62-172)
State Law reference— When payment due, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-20; penalty and interest on default in payment, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-21.
Sec. 12-91. - Effect of nulla bona.
When a nulla bona entry has been entered upon an execution, the person against whom the entry is made shall not be allowed or entitled to have or collect any fees or charges whatever for services rendered after the entry of the nulla bona. If, at any time after the nulla bona entry has been made, the person against whom the execution issues pays the tax in full together with all interest and costs accrued on the tax, the person may collect any fees and charges due to such person as if such person had never defaulted in the payment of the tax.
(Code 1999, § 62-173)
Sec. 12-92. - Penalties.
(a)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to pay any occupation tax or regulatory fee charged pursuant to this article shall be subject to fine or imprisonment not to exceed the limitations of the city Charter.
(b)
Individuals, businesses and practitioners who fail or refuse to make a timely or truthful tax return or make available truthful and accurate information the city requests or requires for determining applicability or amount of occupation tax or regulatory fee, or for levying or collecting such occupation tax or regulatory fee shall be subject to suspension of the right to conduct business.
(c)
All persons subject to the occupation tax or regulatory fee imposed by this article shall be required to file for and pay such tax or fee. For failure to do so, any officers or agents soliciting for or obtaining such person business shall be subject to the same penalty as other persons, businesses or practitioners who fail to obtain, make a return for or pay the applicable occupation tax or regulatory fee.
(Code 1999, § 62-174)
Sec. 12-93. - Public hearing prior to increase in taxes.
After January 1, 1996, the city shall conduct at least one public hearing before adopting any ordinance or resolution which will increase the occupation tax rate specified in this article.
(Code 1999, § 62-175)
Secs. 12-94—12-114. - Reserved.
