ARTICLE IX. - SPECIAL EVENT VENUES

Sec. 4-291. - Preamble and Purpose.
The city recognizes the valuable economic impact of special event venues being located throughout the city's downtown or business districts. The distribution and consumption of alcoholic beverages at special event venues are attendant with the normal and customary types of events held at such facilities, i.e., weddings, meetings, social affairs, banquets, balls, catered events, parties or similar gatherings. To encourage such economic impact of these venue's while ensuring the safety, health and general welfare of the public, special events must obtain a license to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages at said venues and must provide at least one individual/employee/volunteer that holds and possesses a required server certification that will monitor the dispensing of alcohol and the consumers at that location for the signs of intoxication or drunkenness and shall have the ability to remedy such event.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-292. - Sale without a license prohibited.
Any special event that wishes to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises shall be required to first obtain the appropriate state license and shall additionally provide at least one individual/employee/volunteer that shall hold and possess a required server certification that will monitor the dispensing of alcohol and the consumers at that location for the signs of intoxication or drunkenness and shall have the ability to remedy such event.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-293. - Registration required.
Any special event that does not sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises but that allows alcoholic beverages to be consumed at said venue or location by guests attending the event must first register with the city on forms prepared by the city clerk and pay a registration fee of $50.00 per event. Said registration fee shall be paid upon initial registration.
The special event must meet the following criterion prior to the issuance of a license to allow for the presence of alcoholic beverages:
(1)
The special event must receive approval from the city police department on crowd control and security measures. Additionally, this may require the permittee to hire additional law enforcement at their expense to provide for adequate public safety;
(2)
The licensee must provide adequate assurance to the city council that no underage persons will be permitted to possess or consume alcohol within the event;
(3)
No opened alcoholic beverages shall be removed from the event area by any guests;
(4)
A special event shall make available at all times food that complies with the definition of "food" in section 4-1;
(5)
The city council must approve any necessary closure of any public right-of-way for the purposes of holding the event. The event area shall be provided with a barrier to restrict access/egress.
(6)
The location at which the special event is to take place must be properly zoned and approved by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-294. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application seeking a license to sell alcoholic beverages or seeking registration of a special event as required herein shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license or registration fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his/her application prior to it being issued the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; those costs associated with investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter. Any applicant for a license or registration under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license or active registration under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-295. - Alcoholic beverages must be purchased from alcohol distributor.
Any alcoholic beverage consumed at a special event by private guests attending a private event must be purchased from an alcohol distributor/wholesaler.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-296. - Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer.
Any retail dealer licensed under this article and state law for the sale of malt beverages, distilled spirits, liquors and wines shall be eligible to make an application for an off-premises license pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-11-2 for any licensed location and provided that the caterer shall provide at least one individual/employee that holds and possesses a required server certification as provided in section 4-40(a) to monitor the dispensing and consumption of alcohol.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-297. - Facility must be approved.
A special event venue or other location must first be approved by the zoning administrator prior to conducting operations at such special event.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-298. - Timing of sales or consumption.
All sales of alcoholic beverages or consumption of alcoholic beverages at special event shall comply in all respects to the time restrictions found in sections 4-143, 4-144, and 4-173 contained herein.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-299—4-324. - Reserved.
