ARTICLE X. - HOTEL IN-ROOM SERVICE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
State Law reference— In-room sales by hotels and motels, O.C.G.A. § 3-9-10 et seq.

Sec. 4-325. - License.
(a)
Any hotel as defined herein may provide in-room service of alcoholic beverages after obtaining proper licensure for the same in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(b)
The sale of alcoholic beverages by in-room service shall be subject to all restrictions and limitations imposed by this chapter and shall be authorized only on such days and only during such hours as the sale of alcoholic beverages with the exception that in-room delivery of alcoholic beverages to guests may extend to 1:00 a.m.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-326 - In-room service.
(a)
For purposes of this chapter, "in-room service" consists of:
(1)
The delivery of alcoholic beverages by an employee of the hotel to a registered guest's room when such alcoholic beverages have been ordered by the guest and when the guest shall be billed for the cost of such alcoholic beverages at the time of delivery and when the sale of such alcoholic beverages is completed at the time of delivery; or
(2)
The provision of a cabinet, refrigerator, mini-bar or other facility located in a hotel guest room which contains alcoholic beverages, and which is accessible only to the guest and for which the sale of alcoholic beverages contained therein is final at the time requested except for a credit which may be given to the guest for any unused portion.
(b)
In order to be eligible for an in-room service license, a hotel must:
(1)
Be used and held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations are offered to guests for adequate pay, and meet other standards and conditions of a "hotel" as defined in this chapter or other codes of the city; and
(2)
Contain six or more separate and distinct rooms used for the sleeping accommodations of guests.
(c)
A hotel may consist of a single building or may consist of two or more buildings located on the same premises and used in connection with the hotel operation.
(d)
A facility which is styled as an inn, bed and breakfast or other similar appellation may be licensed as a hotel if it meets the requirements of this article.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-327. - Investigative and administrative costs.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash in the amount of $250.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his/her application prior to it being issued the deposit representing the license fee shall be refunded; those costs associated with investigation and administration shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this chapter shall be retained. Any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article shall pay no investigative and administrative costs.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Sec. 4-328. - General provisions.
All alcoholic beverages sold pursuant to this article shall be purchased from a licensed wholesale dealer and shall be subject to all taxes imposed under this chapter and city Code, including the excise tax on the retail sale by the drink of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 7-16-2019 )
Secs. 4-329—4-354. - Reserved.
