Chapter 36 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Solid waste management generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-9-1; hazardous waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-79; local and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings and disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; authorization for local government units to enforce collection of taxes, fees, or assessments for solid waste management, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.3; authority of local governments to adopt and enforce local regulations for the handling and disposal of solid waste, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40; transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries pursuant to contract, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; Resource Recovery Development Authorities Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-63-1 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 36-1. - City to provide for periodic collection.
The storage, collection and disposal of solid wastes in the city shall be in compliance with rules and regulations promulgated therefor by the mayor and council and on file in the office of the city clerk. Fees required for the collection and disposal of solid wastes shall be as provided in the city fee schedule .
(Code 1999, §§ 54-1, 54-2; Ord. of 10-1-1973, § 1)
Secs. 36-2—36-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LITTERING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

Sec. 36-21. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals or other discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse, or the shores thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; and any vacant areas, commercial, industrial, residential or farm properties, timberlands or forests.
(Code 1999, § 54-36)
Sec. 36-22. - Dumping or depositing of litter.
(a)
It is unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city, or any waters in this city, unless the litter is placed into a litter receptacle or container installed or placed on such property and specifically designated for the use of the general public, or the property is designated by the state or by any of its agencies or by the city for the disposal of litter and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to use such property.
(b)
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the owner or renter of any private property, or any person acting with the consent of such owner or renter, from the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter upon such property or in any private receptacle or container maintained by the owner or renter of such private property for the sole and exclusive use of the household or business of such owner or renter.
(c)
It is unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any private property in the city, in any litter receptacle thereon, or any waters in this city, unless the person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or such person has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in such lawful possession.
(Code 1999, § 54-38; Ord. of 10-1-1973, § 3)
Sec. 36-23. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this article is discovered to contain any articles including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated section 36-22.
(Code 1999, § 54-39)
Sec. 36-24. - Duties of business owners and occupants.
(a)
Generally. The owner or occupant of any store or other place of business located within the city shall exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep his premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials thrown or left on those premises by his customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent them from drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
(b)
Receptacles. Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed on the premises accessible to the customers of the business where the articles of waste generated at such business may be disposed of.
(c)
Signs. Each business establishment shall place upon its premises in a conspicuous place in close proximity to the receptacle required by subsection (b) of this section, a sign which shall, in essence, convey to its customers a request that they use such receptacle for the disposal of waste material.
(Code 1999, § 54-40)
Sec. 36-25. - Duty of customers.
It is unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another to in any manner dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials except in receptacles provided for such purpose.
(Code 1999, § 54-41)
