ARTICLE I. - CHARTER[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The City of Clayton, Georgia, was original incorporated as the Town of Claytonsville, Georgia, by 1823 Ga. Laws (Unnumbered Act), p. 196. The original town charter was repealed and re-enacted on several occasions thereafter, most recently by 1909 Ga. Laws (Act No. 284), page 600, as revised by 1921 Ga. Laws (Act No. 65), page 750. (A new charter proposed by 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 646), p. 2417, failed at referendum). Printed herein is the 1909 charter as revised in 1921 and as subsequently amended. Amendments to the revised charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act as revised in 1921. Affidavits and notices of intent that accompanied the original and amending acts have been omitted. A uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation and material in brackets has been added, if necessary, for clarity.
State Law reference— Home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities and authority for amendment of local charter by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; terms city, town, and municipality declared synonymous, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-1.

Sec. 1. - Corporate name; general powers.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that from and after the passage of this Act, the inhabitants of the territory designated and described in Section 2 of this Act, located in the County of Rabun, in the State of Georgia, be, and the same are, hereby incorporated under the name and style of the 'City of Clayton,' and the said City of Clayton is hereby chartered and made a city under the corporate name of the 'City of Clayton,' and by that name shall have perpetual succession, and is hereby vested with all the rights, powers and privileges incident to municipal corporations of this State or city thereof, and all rights, powers, titles, property, easements and hereditaments within or without its corporate limits, now belonging to the Town of Clayton or hereafter belonging to said City of Clayton shall be, and are, hereby vested in said 'City of Clayton' as created by this Act; and the said City of Clayton, as created by this Act, may, by its corporate name, sue and be sued, contract and be contracted with, plead and be impleaded, have and use a common seal, make and enact, through its Mayor and Councilmen, such ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions for the transaction of its business, and the welfare and proper government of said city, as to said Mayor and Councilmen may seem best, and which shall be consistent with the laws of the State of Georgia and the laws of the United States, and the said City of Clayton shall have the right and power to purchase hold, rent, lease, sell, exchange, enjoy, possess and retain in perpetuity, or for any term of years any property, estate or estates, real or personal, lands and tenements and hereditaments, and of whatsoever kinds, and within or without the limits of said city, for corporate purposes said City of Clayton, created by this Act, shall succeed to all rights of, and is hereby made responsible, as a body corporate, for all legal debts, liabilities, undertakings and suits or actions brought by or brought against said Town of Clayton and its Mayor and Council, and of, or in which, said Town of Clayton may be in any wise connected, interested or liable, as heretofore incorporated."
Sec. 2. - Territorial limits.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the corporate limits of said City of Clayton shall extend one mile in each and every direction from the center of the public square as now located in said city, and shall, therefore, be a circle, the center of which shall be center of said public square, with a radius of one mile.
Sec. 2.1. - Addition to territorial limits—2004.
In addition to the present territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following tract or parcel of land located in Rabun County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land, lying and being in Land Lots 20 and 21 of the 5th District, Rabun County, Georgia and being more particularly described as follows:
Commence at the most southerly point of the mitered right of way of the northerly variable existing right of way of Stekoa Falls Road and the easterly variable existing right of way of U.S. Highway 441, said point being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; thence along the mitered right of way North 21 degrees 43 minutes 52 seconds West for a distance of 8.84 feet to an iron pin set at the intersection of the mitered right of way and the proposed easterly variable right of way of U.S. Highway 441; thence leaving the said mitered existing right of way and along the proposed easterly variable right of way of U.S. Highway 441 North 15 degrees 12 minutes 17 seconds East for a distance of 1014.74 feet to an iron pin set; thence leaving said right of way South 29 degrees 55 minutes 15 seconds East for a distance of 45.47 feet to an iron pin set; thence South 75 degrees 54 minutes 00 seconds East for a distance of 633.33 feet to an iron pin set; thence South 14 degrees 06 minutes 00 seconds West for a distance of 238.98 feet to an iron pin set; thence South 75 degrees 54 minutes 00 seconds East for a distance of 125.10 feet to an iron pin set; thence South 11 degrees 43 minutes 12 seconds West for a distance of 382.33 feet to an iron pin set on the northerly variable right of way of Stekoa Falls Road; thence along said right of way a curve to the left having a radius of 373.33 feet and an arc length of 35.93 feet, being subtended by a chord of South 36 degrees 54 minutes 16 seconds West for a distance of 35.92 feet to an iron pin set; thence, South 34 degrees 08 minutes 50 seconds West for a distance of 51.26 feet to an iron pin set; thence, along a curve to the right having a radius of 395.59 feet and an arc length of 24.87 feet, being subtended by a chord of South 37 degrees 51 minutes 51 seconds West for a distance of 24.86 feet to an iron pin set; thence, leaving said right of way North 75 degrees 54 minutes 00 seconds West for a distance of 417.40 feet to an iron pin set; thence, South 63 degrees 10 minutes 01 seconds West for a distance of 68.69 feet to an iron pin set; thence, North 75 degrees 54 minutes 00 seconds West for a distance of 203.71 feet to an iron pin set; thence, South 13 degrees 57 minutes 38 seconds East for a distance of 216.29 feet to an iron pin set; thence, along a curve to the right having a radius of 102.50 feet and an arc length of 80.76 feet, being subtended by a chord of South 08 degrees 36 minutes 43 seconds West for a distance of 78.69 feet to an iron pin set; thence, South 31 degrees 11 minutes 03 seconds West for a distance of 16.23 feet to an iron pin set on the northerly variable existing right of way of Stekoa Falls Road; thence along said right of way North 58 degrees 33 minutes 07 seconds West for a distance of 220.29 feet to an iron pin set, said point being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING. Said property contains 610,507 square feet or 14.015 acres.
(2004 Ga. Laws (Act No. 639), p. 3670)
Sec. 2.2. - Addition to territorial limits—2006.
In addition to the present territory included within the corporate limits of said city, the corporate limits shall specifically include the following tract or parcel of land located in Rabun County, Georgia:
All that tract or parcel of land, lying and being in Land Lots 21 and 22 of the 5th District, Rabun County, Georgia and being more particularly described as follows:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in Land Lots 21 and 22 in the Fifth Land District of Rabun County, Georgia containing 22.48 acres as shown on a plat of survey made by William F. Rolader, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor #2042, dated February 7, 2005, and more particularly described as follows TO WIT:
Beginning at a point at the Northeast intersection of Old U.S. Highway 441 South and Owl Mountain Road, thence along North right-of-way line of Old U.S. Highway 441 S77°13'07"W/220.39', S76°56'41"W/96.65', 'S76°56'41"W/131.86', S77°04'25"W/106.15', S77°00'49"W/105.41', S79°15'33"W/82.87', S72°19'32"W/33.63', S75°50'52"W/48.32', S76°30'34"W/91.60', S76°50'12"W/113.74, S78°12'29W/124.53' TO A POINT; thence North N34°23'06"/57.20', N36°55'16"W/-42.75', N40°07'55W/87.77', N38°01'34"W/65.09', N50°46'42"W/78.99', N57°17'46"W/65.74', N57°26'31"W/72.75', N54°45'00"W/51.42', N52°54'01"W/87.05', N50°59'12"W/77.97', N46°24'57"W/64.05', N48°522'57"W/109.34', N44°22'14"W/72.40', N44°40'32"W/37.51', N34°22'50"W/92.35', .N30°00'42"W/54.20', N30°18'32"W/103.23', TO A POINT; thence S88°25'01"E/899.07'TO A POINT; thence S81°22'58"E/16.21', S61°58'23"E/26.80', S56°01'11"E145.29', S46°49'54"E/57.27', S56°12'03"E/59.54', S77°01'56"E/52.29', S81°42'05"E/103.77', S68°06'47"E/47.78', S54°57'54"E/28.05', S61°23'47"E/30.05', S71°42'15"E/42.74', N89°10'28"E/29.03', N62°51'06"E118.17', N62°10'21"E/75.69', N59°25'03"E/87.74', N61°46'22"E/46.14', N72°20'13"E/21.83', N86°03'35"E/45.01', N81°50'29"E/49.71', S89°48'31"E/31.49', S73°32'07"E/23.94', S52°29'10"E/31.48', S40°25'58"E/52.11', S29'07'27"E/31.70', S19°39'24"E/31.97', S07°04'22"E/40.85', S02°57'22"E/64.15, S05°07'57"E/43.99', S06°51'36"E/29.11', S13°10'39"E/26.13', S20°13'57"E/20.66', S27°54'05"E/27.06', S37°25'01"E/22.19', S40°57'06"E/27.23', S45°54'17"E/55.05', S49°42'20"E/53.18', S52°39'14"E/37.87', to the point of beginning containing 22.48 acres.
(2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 723), p. 4041)
Sec. 3. - Governing body.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the municipal government of said City of Clayton shall consist of, and be vested in, a Mayor and five Councilmen. That the present Mayor and Councilmen, to-wit: R. E. A. Hamby, Mayor, and J. C. Dover, T. L. Bynum and W. C. Norton. Councilmen, shall constitute the first Mayor and Councilmen of said city and shall remain in office until the first day of January, 1910, or until their successors are elected and qualified, and said Mayor and Councilmen shall exercise all the powers and authorities conferred upon the Mayor and Councilmen of said City of Clayton, created by this charter, and on the third Saturday in December, 1909, a Mayor and five Councilmen shall be elected as provided in the next section of this Act.
Sec. 4. - Elections; terms; oath of office; meetings; vacancies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that on the first Saturday in December, 1909, there shall be elected for said city by the qualified voters therein, a Mayor and five Councilmen, and annually thereafter, on the first Saturday in December, a Mayor and five Councilmen therefor, and all elections for Mayor and Councilmen under this charter, shall be by general tickets. The term of office for Mayor and Councilmen elected hereafter under the provisions of this charter shall be one year, commencing on the first day of January, next, after their election, unless said day shall fall on Sunday, in which event their term shall begin the following Monday, and said Mayor and Councilmen shall hold their offices until their successors are elected, or appointed and qualified. Before said Mayor and Councilmen shall enter upon the discharge of the duties of their offices, they shall severally take and subscribe before some authorized officer to administer oaths by the law of this State, or the retiring Mayor, the following oath, to-wit:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly demean myself as Mayor or Councilman (in which capacity I have been elected or appointed to fill) of the City of Clayton for the ensuing term, and that I will faithfully enforce the charter and ordinances of said city to the best of my skill and ability, without fear or favor, so help me God."
Should the Mayor or any Councilman be absent from the meeting at the time when said oath should be administered to the incoming Mayor and Councilmen, he shall take said oath as soon thereafter as possible. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall provide for monthly meetings, and may hold such special or call meetings as the business of the city may require, all to be convened as provided by the city ordinances. In the event that the office of Mayor or one or more of the Councilmen shall become vacant by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, said vacancy or vacancies may be filled by appointment and selection by Mayor and Councilmen in case of a vacancy in the Council, and by the Councilmen in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, and persons so elected shall be duly qualified to fill such vacancies in case they should be qualified to hold such office or offices, in case they were or should be regularly elected by ballot of the qualified voters of said city.
Sec. 4A. - Manner of election.
There are hereby created on the City Council five posts, to be designated as Post No. 1, Post No. 2, Post No. 3, Post No. 4 and Post No. 5. At the regular city election to be held in 1972, the Mayor and five Councilmen shall be elected. The Mayor and the Councilmen elected to Post No. 1 and Post No. 2 shall serve for initial terms of office of two years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. The Councilmen elected to Post No. 3, Post No. 4 and Post No. 5 shall serve for initial terms of office of one year and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. The Mayor and councilmen elected at such election shall take office on January 1, 1973. Following the initial terms of office of the Mayor and Councilmen herein provided, the terms of office of the Mayor and Councilmen shall be two years and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. At the regular city election to be held in 1973 and in each odd-numbered year thereafter, there shall be elected three Councilmen from Post No. 3, Post No. 4 and Post No. 5, respectively. At the regular city election in 1974 and in each even-numbered year thereafter, there shall be elected a Mayor and two Councilmen from Post No. 1 and Post No. 2, respectively.
(1972 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1459), p. 3830, § 1)
Sec. 4B. - Date of regular election.
Beginning in 1988, the date of the regular city election of the City of Clayton shall be the first Saturday in December of each year until otherwise provided by O.C.G.A. § 21-3-51.
(1988 Ga. Laws, (Act No. 899), p. 3910, § 2)
Editor's note— The revision encompassed in 1972 Ga. Laws (Act No. 65), p. 3830, amended the city's charter by adding a new section 4A, and 1988 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 899), p. 3910, amended the city's charter by adding a new section 4A, the 1988 amendment has been designated at the editor's discretion as section 4B to avoid confusion and to facilitate reference.
Sec. 5. - Removal of mayor.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that should the Mayor or any member of the Council fail or refuse to perform the duties of his office for a period of three consecutive months, or should any officer-elect refuse to qualify, the office may be, in the discretion of the remaining members of the Council, be declared vacant, and the vacancy filled as provided in the section of this Act.
Sec. 6. - Election managers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all elections held under this charter, and all elections in which any subject or question is submitted to the qualified voters of said City of Clayton, shall be managed by a Justice of the Peace, or some other judicial officer, and two freeholders, who are citizens of said city and own real estate therein, or by three freeholders all of whom shall be citizens of said city and own real estate therein, and said managers, before entering on their duties, shall take and subscribe before some Justice of the Peace or some other officer qualified to administer oaths before each other, the following oath: "That each of us do swear that we will faithfully and impartially conduct this election and prevent all illegal voting, and prevent no one from voting who is entitled to do so, according to law, to the best of our skill and power, so help me God." Said managers shall keep or cause to be kept, copies of two lists of voters and two tally sheets. All elections shall be held at the county Court House in said city, or at some other convenient place therein, and in case of the latter it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Council to give notice thereof for at least ten days before said election of the change of place by posting the same at the said county Court House and two other public places in said town, and all voting shall be by ballot. The polls shall be opened at 8 o'clock a.m. and closed at 6 o'clock p.m. Persons receiving the highest number of votes for the respective offices shall be declared to be elected by the managers, and a certificate from said managers to that effect shall entitle those elected to take the oath and enter upon the duties of his office. The managers of all elections held under the provisions of this charter shall be appointed by the Mayor and Councilmen, and said Mayor and Councilmen may determine and provide for the pay of the managers and such clerks as may be necessary to hold said election.
Sec. 7. - Contested elections.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that should any contest arise over any election for Mayor and Councilmen in said city same shall be determined and disposed of as provided by Section 111 of Volume 1 of the Civil Code of 1905, and other general laws of this State governing the question of contests arising over election for municipal officers.
Sec. 8. - Mayor pro tem.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen at their first meeting, or as soon thereafter as practicable, shall elect one of the Councilmen Mayor pro tempore, who shall in case of absence or disqualification of the Mayor or of vacancy in that office, perform and discharge all duties and exercise all the authority of the office of Mayor.
Sec. 9. - Qualified voters.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all persons qualified to vote for members of the General Assembly of this State, and who have paid all taxes legally imposed and demanded of them by the authorities of said city, and shall have resided in said city one month next prior to the election at which they offer to vote, and shall have registered as shall be required by the registration laws or ordinances of said city, shall be qualified to vote at any election held in said city as provided by this charter.
Sec. 10. - Eligibility of officers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that any citizen who shall have been a resident of said city for twelve months next preceding the election and who shall be eligible to vote at the election at which he is a candidate, shall be eligible for the office of Mayor or Councilman, and no person who is not thus qualified shall be eligible to either of said offices.
Sec. 11. - Clerk and treasurer; marshal; attorney.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that at the first meeting of the Mayor and Councilmen in each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable, they shall elect a Clerk and Treasurer for said city, a Marshal who may be Chief of Police, and as many policemen as in the judgment of the Mayor and Councilmen shall be necessary to police said city, a City Attorney, and such other officers as said Mayor and Councilmen may deem necessary for and in the good government of said city. Each of said officers shall take such oaths, perform such duties, and give such bonds as the Mayor and Councilmen may by ordinance prescribe; provided, that all bonds of officers shall be made payable to the City of Clayton. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to suspend and remove said officers, in their discretion; it shall be their duty to fix the salary or compensation of said Mayor and Councilmen, and all other officers, agents and employees of said city by appropriate ordinance. All expenditures of the Mayor and Councilmen shall be paid out of the City Treasury by an order drawn by the City Clerk, countersigned by the Mayor, or, in his absence, by the Mayor pro tempore, after the Mayor and Councilmen have allowed and audited the same.
Sec. 12. - Quorum; veto power.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and three Councilmen shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business before the body, and a majority of the votes cast shall determine questions before them; provided, that every question so determined or order passed, shall receive not less than three votes. On all questions before the said Council, the Mayor, or Mayor pro tempore, if he be presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in case of a tie. He shall have the veto power, and may veto any ordinance or resolution of the Councilmen, in which event the same shall not become a law unless subsequently passed over his veto by a vote of at least four Councilmen on a yea and nay vote, duly recorded on the minutes of the City Clerk, but unless he shall file in writing with the Clerk of said city his veto of any measure passed by that body, with the reasons for withholding his assent within three days from its passage, the same shall become a law just as if signed and approved by said Mayor, but he may approve same and the measure go into effect immediately. A "measure" as set forth in this section is hereby defined as an ordinance or resolution. A measure is not any other action, election, commendation, vote, contract, or expression of opinion by the City Council.
(Ord. of 3-11-2008)
Sec. 13. - Mayor; powers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor of said City of Clayton shall be the chief executive officer thereof. He shall see that all laws, ordinances, resolutions and rules of said city are faithfully and fully executed and enforced, and that all of the officers of said city faithfully discharge the duties required of them. He shall have general supervision and jurisdiction of the affairs of said city, and shall preside at all meetings of the Mayor and Councilmen. He shall have the power to convene the Council in special, call or extra sessions whenever in his judgment it becomes necessary.
Sec. 14. - Police court.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor, or in his absence or disqualification the Mayor pro tempore, or in case of the absence or disqualification of both the Mayor and Mayor pro tempore, any Councilman of the city may hold and preside over the Court in said City of Clayton, to be called and known as the "Police Court," for the trial of all offenders against the laws and ordinances of said city as often as necessary. Said Court shall have the power to preserve order, compel the attendance of witnesses, compel the production of books and papers to be used as evidence, and punish for contempt. Said Court shall have power to punish for all violations of this charter, laws or ordinances of said city by fine not to exceed one hundred ($100) dollars, imprison in the city prison or jail of Rabun County (the latter to be used as a city prison upon the payment of the jail fees required for keeping other prisoners) not to exceed sixty days, and to work on the streets in the city chain gang or such other public ways as the Mayor, acting Mayor, may direct, not to exceed sixty days and one or more of these punishments may be inflicted by the Mayor, or acting Mayor, in his discretion; and the fines imposed may be collected by execution, if the Mayor, or acting Mayor, shall direct.
Sec. 15. - Presiding officer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor, or the Mayor pro tempore, in case he shall be presiding, shall have the power in said Police Court of a Justice of the Peace and shall issue warrants against and try offenders charged with violating any criminal law of the State of Georgia in said city, and hear evidence on such charges and bind over the defendants to the Superior Court of Rabun County, commit to the common jail of said county or take bonds for his appearance to said Superior Court, in case the offense charged is bailable.
Sec. 16. - Witnesses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have power to authorize by ordinance the Marshal or policeman of said city to summons any or all bystanders of any other citizen of said city to aid in the arrest of any person or persons violating any ordinance of said town, of any law of this State and to provide punishment for any person or persons failing or refusing to obey such summons.
Sec. 17. - Arrests.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be lawful for the Marshal or any police of said city to arrest, without warrant, person or persons within the corporate limits of said city, who, at the time of said arrest or before that time, have been guilty of violating any of the ordinances of said city and is at the time endeavoring to escape, and to hold such person so arrested until a hearing of the matter before the proper officer can be had, and to this end, said arresting officer is authorized to imprison and confine any person arrested by him in the city prison, or in the common jail of Rabun County, for a reasonable length of time. The Marshal and policemen of said city are authorized to the same extent as Sheriffs of this State to execute warrants placed in their hands charging any person or persons with violating the criminal laws of this State. The Marshal and policemen of said city are also authorized to arrest anywhere within the limits of this State any person charged with violating any of the ordinances of said City of Clayton, provided, when the arrest is not made within twenty-four hours after the offense charged is committed, said Marshal and policemen are not authorized to arrest the offender outside of the corporate limits of said city, except in obedience to a written warrant signed by the Mayor, or Mayor pro tempore, or acting Mayor. The City Marshal, or any policeman, may take bond payable to the Mayor of said city for the appearance of any person arrested by them, for appearance before the Court for trial, and all such bonds may be forfeited as hereinafter provided for forfeitures of appearance bonds by the Mayor, Mayor pro tempore, or acting Mayor.
Sec. 18. - Chain gangs.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Clayton shall have power to organize one or more chain gangs, or work gangs, and confine therein persons who have been sentenced by the Police Court of said city to work upon the streets or public works of said city, and shall have power to make rules and regulations that may be suitable or necessary for the care, management or control of said gangs, and to enforce the same through proper officers.
Sec. 19. - Hearings continued.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor, Mayor pro tempore or acting Mayor, when any person, or persons, are arraigned before the Mayor's or Police Court, charged with violating any of the ordinances, resolutions, regulations or rules of said city may, for good cause shown by either side, continue the hearing to such time as the presiding Judge may think best and the accused shall give bond and security for his appearance at the appointed time for trial, and be imprisoned to await trial. If such bond be given and the accused fail to appear at the time fixed for trial the bond may be forfeited by the Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore or acting Mayor, and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant, if anywhere to be found, and his securities, with rule nisi, at least two days before hearing said rule nisi, and final judgment passed thereon. The Mayor, Mayor pro tempore or acting Mayor, shall have power and authority to accept cash in lieu of bond and security for appearance of offenders for trial, and if such offenders shall fail to appear at the time and place fixed for said trial the cash so deposited shall be by order of the officer presiding, declared to be forfeited to the City of Clayton.
Sec. 20. - Witnesses; contempts.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Police Court of said city shall have the same jurisdiction and power over the forcing of witnesses to attend criminal trials in said court as the Superior Courts of this State have in forcing the attendance of witnesses in criminal cases in those Courts and the presiding officer of said city has the same right to punish for contempts that are allowed by law to the Judges of said Courts in case of defaulting witnesses.
Sec. 21. - Certiorari.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that any person convicted in the Police Court of said city shall have the right of certiorari to the Superior Court of Rabun County; provided, all costs are first paid and bond and security given in double the amount of cash fine imposed, and in case the sentence is imprisonment, then in such an amount as the presiding officer may think proper, to answer the final judgment in the case; and, provided, further, nothing in this section shall prevent the defendant who desires to certiorari his said cause to said Superior Court, to file the usual pauper affidavit in lieu of giving bond and security and paying the cost; and, provided, further, the applicant failing to give such bond and security may, in the discretion of the presiding officer, be placed in the city prison or county jail to await the final adjudication of his case.
Sec. 22. - Recorder.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen may if they desire to do so, appoint a Recorder for said city to preside over the "Police Court," who shall have all the authority and power in said Court delegated herein or by ordinance or by laws, to the Mayor of said city; and when such Recorder is appointed as herein authorized, he shall be the sole Judge in said Police Court, but his duties may be discharged by the Mayor, Mayor pro tempore, or some member of the Council when said Recorder is absent from the city or otherwise disqualified to preside over said Court.
Sec. 23. - Tax assessors; duties; returns; objections.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen may, at any time after the passage of this Act, elect three intelligent, discreet and upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of city, owners of real estate therein, Tax Assessors, whose terms of office shall be for one year. Said City Tax Assessors may at any time be removed from their office by the Mayor and Councilmen for good and sufficient cause, to be judged by said Mayor and Councilmen, and all vacancies occurring from any cause may be filled by the Mayor and Councilmen at any time; and it shall be the duty of said Tax Assessors to assess the value of all real estate located in said city for the purposes of taxation by said city, and it shall be their duty to examine tax returns placed before them by the Clerk of said city who shall receive the same, and increase the valuation of personal property thereon when, in their judgment, the value placed thereon by the tax payer is too small. The Mayor and Councilmen shall have power to prescribe rules for the government of said City Tax Assessors. Said Assessors shall make returns of the assessments made by them to said Mayor and Councilmen each year, thirty days before the time for collecting taxes. When said return is made, said Mayor and Councilmen shall appoint a place for hearing objections to the assessments, said objections to be heard by said Mayor and Councilmen of which public notice shall be given as may be prescribed by ordinance, and the Clerk of said city shall give each owner of property whose tax returns of personalty has been increased, at least five days' notice of such hearing, stating therein the amount of increase. If the property has been returned for taxation by an agent, notice to such agent shall be sufficient. If the owner is not a resident of said city, and has no agent residing therein, the Mayor and Councilmen shall prescribe by ordinance what notice, if any, shall be given. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power to provide by ordinance for assessing all property, both real and personal, located in, and subject to taxation by said city, not returned for taxation, and for double taxing defaulters. The City Assessors shall take such oaths and receive such compensation as the Mayor and Councilmen may prescribe. Such City Tax Assessors shall have the power to require the tax payers to furnish them with a list of all notes, accounts, mortgages, stocks, bonds, other securities and investments and choses in action, when in their opinion the production is necessary for a correct, just and true assessment. All assessments made by said Assessors of real estate shall become final, if no objections are made on or by the date set for hearing objections by the said Mayor and Councilmen, notice, such as may be prescribed by ordinance, having been given of such hearing, and if objections are made at the time of the hearing an assessment, the decision of said Mayor and Councilmen on said assessment whether they increase or decrease them shall be final.
Sec. 24. - Property not assessed.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that in case any property which is subject to taxation should not be assessed, if realty, by the Assessors or returned for taxation, if personalty, or for any reason has not been assessed or returned for taxation and taxes collected in any year past, the City Tax Assessors may at any time assess said property for said year, or years, and double tax if there has been a failure to return it as required by law, and if the Mayor and Councilmen have provided for double-taxing defaulters and an execution shall issue therefor as in other cases, at the rate for the several years in which no taxes were paid. This section shall apply to the assessment of property which before the passage of this Act in any year, was not assessed for taxation, or which was not returned for taxation and taxes collected thereon, as well as to property which in the future may be omitted from any cause from return or assessment and the collection of taxes thereon omitted in any year. The Mayor and Councilmen may provide by ordinance for notice to parties whose property has been, or may be, assessed for back taxes, and the hearing of any complaint. All assessment referred to in this section shall be made by the City Tax Assessors.
Sec. 25. - Tax payments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right and authority to provide by ordinance when all property in said city shall be returned for taxes. When taxes thereon shall fall due, when taxes shall be paid, when executions shall be issued against those who have not paid their taxes by the time fixed by ordinance, fix a penalty for nonpayment of taxes, when due and any and all other acts that will effectively force the payment of all legal and just taxes due said city on all property subject to taxation thereon.
Sec. 26. - Fire limits.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to provide for and define, by ordinance, the "fire limits" of said city and prescribe and designate the character, kinds and classes of improvements to be made within said "fire limits"; and, in order to carry out more effectively the provisions of this section, they may, in their discretion, appoint a building inspector for said city and define his powers and duties and provide for building permits. They shall also have the power and authority to enact ordinances regulating the sanitation and sanitary conditions of said city, and prescribe penalties for violating the provisions of this section, and all ordinances enacted in pursuance of same.
Sec. 27. - Business licenses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to require and collect a license tax on any or all business, occupations, avocations or professions carried on in said city, and to this end may, in their discretion, license in said city any or all businesses, occupations, avocations or professions, the running, practicing, carrying on, performing or conducting of which is not prohibited by the law of this State.
Sec. 28. - Railway crossings.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Council of said city shall have full power and authority to require the railroad or railroads, electric road or road tram roads or roads, automobile road or roads, or any other road or roads except the public highways of said city, running through said city or any portion of it, to make and repair the crossings on their several lines whenever, and in the manner said Mayor and Councilmen may deem proper and necessary, and to place or repair such crossings, or open up and keep open any and all streets, alleys or byways over or along which their several lines shall run in said city, and the Mayor and Councilmen may pass any ordinance needful for carrying out the provisions of this section, and in case any of said named roads shall fail or refuse to make such crossings within five days, or such repairs within twenty-four hours after having been notified to do so by said city, the Mayor and Councilmen shall have power to create and make same at the expense of said road, or roads, and issue an execution therefor, and levy and collect the same as provided in the case of tax executions.
Sec. 29. - Explosives.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right and authority to provide for the inspection of steam boilers, to regulate or prevent the storage of gun powder, tar, pitch, rosin, coal, benzene, naphtha, nitro-glycerine, turpentine, cotton, petroleum, kerosene oil, dynamite or other explosives, or combustible substances or materials within said city, and to regulate the use of lights in stables, shops or other buildings or places; to regulate or prevent bonfires, the sale of fireworks, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, firing of guns, pistols, or firearms, anvils and any and all kinds of gaming or hunting within the corporate limits of said city.
Sec. 30. - Amusement licenses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to license billiard tables, pool tables, ten pin alleys, and all tables kept or used for the purpose of playing, gaming or renting, all ten pin alleys, nine pin alleys, or alleys of any and all kinds, or other tables, devices or machines kept for the purpose of playing, or for the purpose of running the same, dancing halls or other places of amusements kept or rented for private gain, and to charge for said license such sums as they may by ordinance prescribe.
Sec. 31. - Brokers' licenses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to assess taxes on all persons, firms or corporations carrying on a brokerage business in addition to other taxes they may have paid. They shall have power to license brokers in said city, define by ordinance their powers and privileges, revoke their license, impose taxes and exercise such superintendence as will ensure fair dealing between them and their customers.
Sec. 32. - Other licenses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have full power and authority to license, regulate and control all markets in said city, opera houses, livery stables, drays, hacks used for hauling of any kind and vehicles used for hire, auctioneers, itinerant lightning rod or other like dealers or peddlers, immigrant agents, all fire, life insurance companies or their agents doing business in said city, traders of all kinds, itinerant dealers in jewelry and medicine, and any or all itinerant articles of merchandise, except such as are exempt by the laws of this State; also any person, firm or corporation running a flying-jenny, flying-horse, merry-go-round, bicycle or skating rink and like devices for gain, and all circuses, moving picture shows, side shows, and all other shows, exhibitions or performances exhibiting in said city, and all persons selling goods, wares and merchandise, or offering the same for sale by sample, advertisement or retail and all other business, calling or vocation which are not exempt from license under the laws of the State.
Sec. 33. - Impounding.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the power and authority to prevent horses, mules, cattle, hogs, sheep, dogs, goats, and any and all other animals or fowls from running at large in said city, and to prevent and prohibit the keeping of hogs within the city limits or regulate the manner in which they must be kept if allowed to remain; also to impound such animals when found running at large in said city, and to charge such fees and costs for same as they may prescribe; also when the owner or owners of such animal or animals shall fail or refuse to pay the impounding fee and cost of keeping such animal or animals, the same may be sold at public outcry and the proceeds applied to the payment of said fees and costs of keeping such animal or animals under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by said Mayor and Councilmen.
Sec. 34. - Streets and public ways; condemnation; telephone poles and wires.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have full and complete control of the streets, public roads, sidewalks, alleys, public squares and all public ways in said city, and shall have power and authority to maintain, work or improve the same in any manner they may deem to the best interest to said city, and shall have power and authority to buy or condemn the property of any and all kinds for the purpose of widening, straightening, grading, or in any way changing said streets, or for the purpose of laying out and building new streets, alleys, or public ways in said city, and when it becomes necessary to condemn lands for the purpose herein named, whether the land so condemned shall be in the hands of the owner, trustee, administrator, executor, guardian, or agent, said condemnation may be done in the manner provided in Sections 4657 to 4685 inclusive, of Volume 2 of the Code of Georgia of 1895, the Acts amendatory thereof and the general laws of this State relating thereto. After any proceedings shall be begun to condemn lands for the purposes herein specified, the Mayor and Councilmen may abandon the same at any time, if they think it to the best interest of the city, upon payment of cost, which they are hereby authorized to do. The Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to remove, or cause to be removed any buildings, steps, fence, gate, post or other obstruction or nuisance in the public streets, alleys, lanes, sidewalks, squares or other public places in said city, and to enforce the provisions of this section by appropriate ordinance. The Mayor and Councilmen shall have the further right, power and authority to provide for and regulate, or have the same done, the curbs, gutters and other sluiceways or drainways emptying into the streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public ways of said city; to regulate or prohibit (except as such power may be restricted by any existing general law of this State) the use of the streets, sidewalks, public squares or other public ways or places of said city for signs, signposts, awnings, telegraph or telephone poles, horse troughs, racks, and for carrying banners, handbills and advertising; to regulate or prohibit exhibitions of banners, handbills, placards, or things of like character on the streets, sidewalks and public places in and of said city; also to compel any telegraph or telephone company having previously erected poles and wires in said city, to remove the same to any reasonable location designated by said Mayor and Councilmen, the same to be done for the purpose of better maintaining, changing or improving the public ways or squares of said city or accommodating the traveling public thereof and therein; and in case said telegraph or telephone company shall fail to remove said poles and wires within thirty days after having been notified to do so, said Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right to do so at the expense of said company, and collect the cost of such removal by execution.
Sec. 35. - Street improvements.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority in their discretion to grade, pave, macadamize or otherwise improve the travel and drainage of the streets, sidewalks, roads, alleys and other public squares and ways of said city. In order to carry into effect the authority above, said Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right and authority to assess not more than two-thirds of the cost of paving and otherwise improving the streets and sidewalks on and against the real estate abutting on same, said assessments to be done in a just and fair manner to the city and the adjoining real estate owners; and when said improvements are made a bill for the pro rata part of the cost thereof shall be presented to the adjoining land owner or his agent, if either lives in said city, if not posted on the land for five days and if the same is not paid, executions shall issue therefor and be collected as tax executions in said city are issued and collected, and the lien against the property for its pro rata of said improvements shall begin at the time of the passage of the ordinance authorizing the same to be made and shall have priority to all liens, except liens for taxes due the State and county.
Sec. 36. - Sewerage and drainage.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have power and authority to establish, construct, maintain and operate a system of sewerage and drainage, or parts of such system of sewerage and drainage in said city, and around said city, for health, cleanliness and comfort of its inhabitants; and the said Mayor and Councilmen shall have entire and absolute control and jurisdiction over all pipes, private drains, public sewers, private water closets, privies and the like, both public and private, in said city, with full power to prescribe the location, structure, uses and regulations concerning them in all particulars as may seem best for the maintenance and preservation of the health and comfort of the inhabitants of said city, with full power also to require changes in or discontinuances of any such contrivances or structures already in existence or that may hereafter be allowed. When any system of sewerage or drainage shall be constructed by said Mayor and Councilmen, or under their direction, assessments may be made and executions may issue for the cost thereof, under the same rules and governed by the same provisions as assessments and executions for paving, grading or improving streets or other public ways under this charter; and said assessments shall be a lien on the property so assessed, as provided in this Act for paving streets; and all the provisions of this charter in reference to making and enforcing assessments in paving streets and the amount thereof shall apply so far as they may be applicable to constructing and maintaining sewers, and may be enforced by said Mayor and Councilmen by appropriate ordinances.
Sec. 37. - Damages.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that in case any sewer or sewers, or parts of same, shall be located upon, or through, private property, and the owners of said property refuse to grant right for that purpose, and if such owners and the authorities of said city cannot agree upon the damages to be paid for such easement, the damage shall be assessed as in cases of property taken for opening, straightening or widening streets under this charter. Upon payment or tender of the amount of the award the work may proceed, notwithstanding an appeal; and that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city may provide by ordinance, or ordinances, for the execution of the provisions of the sections regarding sewerage, drainage and sanitation, except as to taking of private property for construction of sewers, by such boards, committees, or officers, as they may deem best.
Sec. 38. - Extension of sewerage system.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that for the purpose of the preservation of the health of the inhabitants of said city, the Mayor and Councilmen are empowered to extend their system, or any part thereof, of sewerage or drainage beyond the limits of said city, and the provisions as to the construction and maintenance of such sewerage system and the taking of property therefor shall apply to the territory without the limits of said city as may be necessary for the construction of said system.
Sec. 39. - Assessments for sanitation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to make assessments on the various lands and lot owners in said city for sanitary purposes not to exceed two dollars per annum on each lot assessed, and to collect same by execution against the lots so assessed and the owners thereof; the amounts so assessed shall be a lien on the lot from the date of assessment and the execution shall be issued, enforced and collected in the same manner that other executions are issued, enforced and collected in said city. The amount so collected shall be used for sanitary purposes only. The said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power to prescribe and define what shall constitute a lot for sanitary purposes and assessments, provided assessments shall not be on lots or resident lots sub-divided.
Sec. 40. - Tax ad valorem.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that for the purposes of raising revenue for the support and maintenance of the government of said City of Clayton, the Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all property, real and personal, including money, notes, bonds, accounts and every other species of property in said city or owned or held therein, of not exceeding $2.50 on each and every hundred dollars of taxable property, exclusive of taxes for public school purposes and other specific tax not necessary in the support and maintenance of the general government of said city; and for the purpose of providing a sinking fund for the purpose of paying the principal on any bonds that may be issued by said city authorities, and to provide for a fund for the payment of any interest on any such bonds a greater ad valorem tax may be levied and collected. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to provide by ordinances for the return and collection of all taxable property in said city and to provide penalties for neglect or refusal to comply with the same.
(1969 Ga. Laws (Act No. unavailable), p. 4143, § 1)
Sec. 41. - Extension of police and sanitation jurisdiction; land for public utilities.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council of said city and the territorial limits of the same are hereby extended for police and sanitary purposes over all the lands that may be acquired by said city for waterworks, sewer or electric light purposes and waterworks or other stations, and for any other public purpose or use, and adjacent lands, and the pipes and mains of said waterworks or sewer system, and they shall have power and authority to provide by ordinances for the protection of said city waterworks or sewerage system and the preservation of the purity of the water of said waterworks system, and to provide penalties for violation of said ordinances, and the enforcement of the same. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall have jurisdiction over all property used for public purposes of any and all natures within or without the limits of said city and the police power of said city shall be exercised over the same, and said Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right to make ordinances governing the same. Said Mayor and Council shall have full authority to contract for or condemn lands within or without said city for the purposes of establishing and maintaining an electric lighting or waterworks plant or system, sewerage system or any of them; provided that if it becomes necessary to exercise the right of condemnation, all proceedings shall be under the provisions of Sections 4657 to 4686, inclusive, of Volume 2 of the Code of Georgia of 1895, and Acts amendatory thereof.
Sec. 42. - Health and sanitation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have full and complete control of the sanitation of said city, and shall appoint such committees or boards as they may deem proper to look after the sanitary conditions of said city and prescribe the rules and regulations governing said bodies. And said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to cause owners of lots or parts of lots, yards, cellars and other places where filth or trash may accumulate, in case the same should prove a nuisance, to fill or drain the same, and to fill or level the same so that such filth and trash should not accumulate therein or thereon and the sanitary conditions thereof become pure. That if the occupants or owners of said lots, yards or cellars shall fail after notice, either to themselves or agents, or after notice has been posted thereof for five days, to comply with the request of the Mayor and Council to fill up or drain said lot, yard or cellar, it shall be lawful for said city authorities to have said work done and issue execution for the cost of doing the same against the property so improved, and sale under such execution shall pass title to the property when sold.
Sec. 43. - Nuisances.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Council may by ordinance declare what shall be a nuisance in said city and provide for the abatement of the same. The Police Court in said city shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Mayor and Councilmen in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in said city.
Sec. 44. - Blind tigers.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Marshal of said city shall have full power and authority to enter and, if necessary, to make such entrance, to break open and enter any building or place in said city in which the said Marshal or the Mayor and Councilmen shall have reasonable cause to believe or may suspect, a "blind tiger," or where whiskeys, beers, wines, malt or intoxicating liquors are sold, and to seize the stock of liquors and apparatus for selling the same; and the said Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to abate any place in said city as a nuisance when they shall have reasonable cause to believe that a "blind tiger" is being carried on therein or spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors or beers are being sold therein, and to arrest the offender or offenders, and upon conviction of a person for maintaining such nuisance and as a punishment for same, said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to cause the Marshal or policemen of said city to seize and destroy the stock of liquors, beers and wines of said offender and the apparatus for selling the same, and otherwise punish said offender, or offenders, as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Sec. 45. - Building supervision; public worship.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall exercise general supervision over all buildings or structures within said city and shall prescribe rules and regulations for the building and improving the same; and they shall have power to protect all places of divine worship and cemeteries in said city, to provide places for the burial of the dead, either within and without the city limits, to regulate interments therein and to expend annually such sums as may be necessary to keep said cemeteries in proper condition.
Sec. 46. - Protection against disease; quarantine; vaccination.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the power to enact ordinances for the purpose of preventing the spread of contagious or infectious diseases, to declare and maintain quarantine line and regulations against such diseases, and punish for violations of any of said quarantine rules and regulations of said city. They shall have power to build or establish a pest house within or without said city limits and for this purpose they are authorized to buy, rent, hold or receive real estate, either within or without said city limits. They shall have power to compel the removal to the pest house any person or persons who shall have smallpox or any other contagious or infectious diseases, when in their judgment it is to the best interest of the inhabitants of the said city to do so; and they may compel all persons to be vaccinated, whether they be residents or sojourners of or in said city, and may provide vaccination points and materials and employ physicians at the expense of said city, all persons who are not able to procure said vaccination materials and may provide by ordinances punishment for persons failing to or refusing to be vaccinated.
Sec. 47. - Rules and regulations.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all rules, regulations and ordinances heretofore of force in the Town of Clayton, and which are now in force and not inconsistent or repugnant to this Act, shall remain in force and effect until the same are repealed, altered or amended by the Mayor and Councilmen of said City of Clayton, which they are hereby authorized to do at any time they may deem it proper. All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations passed by said Mayor and Councilmen shall be recorded in a well-bound book by the Clerk of said city, which shall be open to inspection by the citizens of said city at any and all times, and it shall not be necessary to give notice to the public of the intention to introduce any ordinance, rule, resolution or regulation, either before or after its passage, other than such notice or publication as is given by the recording of the same in the book to be kept as aforesaid by said City Clerk.
Sec. 48. - Franchises.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have power to grant franchises, easements and rights-of-way over, in, under and on the public streets, squares, lanes, alleys, parks, and other ways and property of said city on such terms and conditions and for such compensation as they may fix; provided, that no such privileges shall be granted by said Mayor and Councilmen for a term of more than twenty years.
Sec. 49. - Arrests; warrants.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that should any person violate any of the ordinances of said city and escape from the jurisdiction thereof, he may be apprehended wherever he may be found in this State, and a warrant of the Mayor, Mayor pro tempore, or acting, of said city shall be sufficient authority for his arrest and return for trial upon the charge resting against him, and should any person after conviction of a violation of any ordinance of said city escape, he may be apprehended wherever found in this State and the warrant of the aforesaid city officers, or either one of them, shall be sufficient authority for his arrest and return, and all persons so escaping from the custody of said city, or its officers, may be tried against for such escape and punished not exceeding the penalties hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 50. - Investigation of officer's conduct.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall be empowered and authorized, through a committee or by themselves, in the discretion of said Mayor and Councilmen, whenever necessary, to examine into the workings of any officer, or conduct of any officer, and said committee or Mayor and Councilmen conducting said examination, shall have power to send for any persons and papers, compel the production of books and papers, compel the attendance of persons summoned, swear witnesses, and make all disclosures pertinent to such investigation, and if the facts authorize it, to suspend any officer so investigated or whose conduct is the subject of such investigation.
Sec. 51. - Fee bill.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have power and authority to establish a fee bill for the officers of said city, such fees when collected to be paid into the City Treasury.
Sec. 52. - Prison.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen may provide for a city prison which shall be safe and suitable for keeping and detention of prisoners and convicts, and may appoint a custodian therefor, but in case said Mayor and Councilmen should so desire they shall be allowed to use the county jail of Rabun County for such purposes by paying the fees allowed the Sheriff or jailor of said county for receiving, feeding and discharging other prisoners.
Sec. 53. - Houses of ill fame.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power and authority to suppress lewd houses, lewdness and immoral conduct, gambling and gambling places and to preserve the sanctity of the Sabbath day, and to this end may enact such ordinances and provide such penalties as they think advisable to carry out the powers granted in this section, and upon proper and sufficient proof of ill fame, bawdy houses, lewd or gaming or gaming houses or place, said Mayor and Council shall have full power and authority to abate the same by causing the occupants thereof to be forcibly removed, after three days' notice, and any property owner or agent who shall, after notice of the character of the inmates, continue to rent to or suffer the same to remain on the premises, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 54. - Public utilities.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said City of Clayton, created by this Act, shall have power and authority to establish, own, maintain and operate a system of waterworks, electric light plant or plants, gas works and sewerage system or any of them for the purpose of supplying its inhabitants and the city as well as customers generally, within said city and its suburbs, with water, lights, electricity or gas for ordinary using or power purposes, sewerage, or any of them, and the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have full power and authority to do any and all things necessary for such purposes, to contract with any person for the purchase of such plants, or any parts of the same, land or premises, and water rights, to be used in connection therewith, whether within or without said city, and if necessary to condemn the same as in this charter provided. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall have authority to make contracts for the purchase of plants, machinery and appliances, and to do any acts necessary in connection with same, and for the purpose of making said systems more proficient, the said Mayor and Councilmen shall have the power to appoint a Commission for all, or any, of said systems, and prescribe their duties and powers by proper ordinances.
Sec. 55. - Registration of voters.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall provide for the proper registration of qualified voters for both general and special elections in and for said city, and to this end they are hereby authorized to pass such ordinances, rules and regulations governing the same as will carry said registration into effect in a way that will allow all citizens of said city, who are qualified to vote to exercise that right, and prohibit those not qualified to vote from doing so.
Sec. 56. - Claims; how executed.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all executions in favor of the City of Clayton for the enforcement and collection of any fine, forfeiture, assessment, taxes or other claims, demand or debt, shall be issued by the Clerk of said city, and bear test in the name of the Mayor (except when otherwise provided by this charter), and shall be directed to the Marshal of said city and all and singular the Sheriffs and Constables of the State and shall state for what issued, and be made returnable to the Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Clayton at least within ninety days after issuing the same, and it shall be the Marshal or other collecting officer's duty to advertise the sale of such real or personal as may be levied on by him to satisfy said execution, in the same manner respectively as Sheriff's sales or realty or constable's sales of personalty are required to be by law. All of said sales to be at the place and within the usual hours of sale of Sheriffs and constables, and to be made under the same rules and regulations as govern Sheriffs' and constables' sales of similar property; that the time, place and manner of sale of property, both real and personal, for taxes due said city shall be the same as provided by law for sales under executions for State and county taxes. Whenever any land is sold for taxes, the owner thereof shall have the privilege of redeeming it within one year by paying the purchaser the amount paid therefor, with ten per centum premium thereon. Whenever, at any such sales for taxes due, no person present shall bid for the property put up for sale as much as the amount of such execution for taxes and all costs, and after such property shall have been cried for a reasonable time, then any officer or agent of said city may bid off said property for said city, and the marshal, or the officer making said sale, shall make to said City of Clayton a deed to the property so sold and deliver the same, and the title thus acquired by the city shall be perfect and complete after the period of redemption of the owner shall have expired, and the Marshal or other officer making said sale shall put the city in possession, and the Mayor and Council of said city shall have no right to divert or alienate the same, the title of the city to sell said property, except by public sale to the highest bidder, in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinances duly made and executed by the said Mayor and Council of said City of Clayton. The Clerk of said city shall keep an execution docket, and shall enter thereon all executions, giving the date, the amount, the purpose of which, and to whom the same was delivered, and all the doings and actings thereon. Said execution shall also be returned to the office of said Clerk after the same has been duly satisfied. All sales and conveyances made under executions shall have all the force and effect of sales and conveyances made by Sheriffs and constables of this State, and the officer making any sale shall have the same power as the Sheriffs and constables to put purchasers in possession of the property sold by them under the laws of this State.
Sec. 57. - Accusations.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Council shall provide by ordinance the form of all accusations, affidavits and warrants to be issued in all trials for violations of the ordinances and criminal laws of said city and of the State in said city, and the procedure in such trials. Nothing in this section shall operate to repeal any ordinance or rules of said city now of force on this subject, but the same shall remain in force and effect until the same are hereby repealed or amended by ordinance duly adopted by said Mayor and Councilmen.
Sec. 58. - Parks.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall have power and authority to acquire in behalf of the City of Clayton, by gift, purchase, lease or otherwise, grounds suitable for park or parks, as in their judgment may be to the interest, welfare and beauty of said city or citizens thereof, and shall have the power and authority to lay out the same into such park or parks, improve, maintain and preserve the same, and to this end may appoint such officers and employees to carry out the purposes of the section, and prescribe their compensation for such employment.
Sec. 59. - Trees.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Council shall have the power and authority to adopt ordinances for the setting out, improving and protecting the trees and groves of said city, and upon the streets, sidewalks and other public ways or places thereof; and no one shall be empowered with the right to fell, or otherwise injure, said trees without written consent of the said Mayor and Councilmen.
Sec. 60. - Commutation tax.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of the City of Clayton may require and compel all male persons in said city between the ages of sixteen and fifty years, subject to road duty under the laws of Georgia, to work upon the streets, sidewalks, lanes, alleys, squares and other public ways and property in said city not to exceed fifteen days in each year, at such time or times as the said Mayor and Councilmen may require, or to pay a commutation tax in lieu thereof, not to exceed one dollar per day for each day required to be performed, as said Mayor and Councilmen may determine by ordinance. Should any person liable to work as aforesaid in this section fail or refuse to do so, or to pay the commutation tax required of him in lieu thereof, after having been notified, either by serving him in person or by leaving written summons at his most notorious place of abode at least one day before such work shall be done or commutation tax in lieu thereof to be collected, shall be deemed guilty of violation of this section, and on conviction in the Police Court of said city shall be fined in a sum not to exceed three dollars for each day he may be required to work or for each dollar of commutation tax due by him, or imprisoned in the city prison not to exceed fifteen days for each time he may be required to work, or imprisoned in the city chain gang not to exceed three days for each day required to work or for each dollar required as commutation tax, and said Mayor and Councilmen shall make such rules, regulations and ordinances to carry into effect this section as they may deem proper, not inconsistent herewith.
Sec. 61. - Ordinances.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen of said City of Clayton shall have full power and authority to pass all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations that may deem and consider necessary for the peace and good order, health, prosperity, comfort and security of said city and the inhabitants thereof, and that may be necessary to foster virtue and good morals in said city, to suppress lewdness, gambling, disorderly conduct, drunkenness and to enforce such laws and ordinances by such penalties as are authorized by this charter. The said Mayor and Councilmen shall have full power to adopt and enforce any and all ordinances they may consider advisable or necessary to carry out the powers granted to said city and said Mayor and Councilmen by this charter; to make and enforce such ordinances, rules, resolutions and regulations for the government of their body, and all officers of said city, and to do any and all other acts and exercise all other power conferred upon them by this Act, or that may be done or exercised under the laws of this State conferring power upon municipal corporations, provided said laws, ordinances, rules, resolutions and regulations are consistent with the laws of the State.
Sec. 61-A. - Vehicles.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen shall have the power to control and regulate the running and operating of all locomotives, trains, streetcars, automobiles and all other vehicles, to prevent unnecessary noise from locomotives, steam whistles, bells or other contrivances that may disturb the peace and comfort of the citizens and to adopt the necessary ordinances for these purposes and penalties and enforce the same for violation thereof.
Sec. 62. - Vagrancy.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power to pass ordinances and regulations preventing idleness and loitering within the corporate limits of said city and to prescribe penalties for violations thereof.
Sec. 63. - Impeachments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that in case the Mayor or any Councilman, while in office shall be guilty of malpractice and willful neglect in office, or abuse of the powers conferred on him, or shall be guilty of any other conduct unbecoming his station, he shall be subject to be impeached by the City Council, and on conviction shall be removed from office.
Sec. 64. - Fire department.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Councilmen of said city to provide for fire protection; and they shall have power to organize and equip a fire department, either paid or volunteer, to make such appropriations as may be advisable for this purpose, and for providing any buildings necessary therefor, and adopt such ordinances, and regulations as will best promote the object of this section, and the protection of property in said city from fires.
Sec. 65. - Dog tax.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to levy a tax on dogs within said city, not to exceed two dollars each, and shall have power to enact ordinances providing for the collection of said tax, and authorize the City Marshal and policemen of said city to kill any dog running at large in said city whose owner refuses to comply with such ordinance.
Sec. 66. - Enforcement of laws.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that authority to carry out and enforce and effectuate by ordinance, and provide penalty for violation of said ordinances, whenever in their discretion the Mayor and Councilmen may deem it necessary, and all further power granted to said City of Clayton, as created by this Act, are hereby expressly conferred on the Mayor and Councilmen of said city.
Secs. 67—80. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Sections 67 through 80 of the city's Charter, relating to a public school system for the city, were repealed by 1924 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 506), p. 496.
Sec. 81. - Waterworks and sewerage; bonds.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said city have power and authority to establish and maintain a waterworks and sewerage system for said city, and to this end may purchase, lease, rent and control lands, within or without the corporate limits of said city, and shall do any and all acts in establishing, maintaining and controlling the same as they may deem proper. They shall have the privilege of purchasing all things or materials in connection therewith. If they deem it proper, they may issue bonds in the sum of not exceeding twenty-five thousand ($25,000) dollars, the same to be of such denominations and bear such rate of interest not exceeding six percent, per annum as said Mayor and Councilmen may see fit. Said bonds to be paid within twenty years, but said Mayor and Councilmen may refund the same within a less period than twenty years. Before said bonds shall be issued, said Mayor and Councilmen shall order an election at which time all qualified voters eligible to vote for Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall be entitled to vote. Those in favor of bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots, "For waterworks and sewerage bonds," and those against such bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots, "Against waterworks and sewerage bonds." If two-thirds of such qualified voters, voting at said election shall cast their ballots for such bonds, said Mayor and Councilmen shall issue the same, and the proceeds from their sale shall be used for the establishment of said system and for no other purpose. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall post notice of said election at least ten days next prior to the holding thereof in three conspicuous places in said city, and said election shall be held under such rules and regulations as elections for Mayor and Councilmen are held for said city, at or before the issuing of said bonds or any part thereof. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall prepare for the levy or collection of taxes, over and above other taxes to be levied in said city with which to pay the annual interest and the principal of said bonds when the same shall become due. If said election should be in favor of the issuance of said bonds, the Mayor and Councilmen have the right to order other taxes to be levied in said city with which to pay the annual interest and principal of said bonds when the same shall become due. If said election shall not be in favor of the issuance of said bonds, the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right to order other elections not less than six months apart until said bond issue shall carry.
Sec. 82. - Electric lighting; bonds.
modified
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that said Mayor and Councilmen may establish and maintain an electric lighting system in and for said city, and to this end they are authorized to purchase all things, equipage and materials necessary in the establishment and maintenance of said system. They shall have the right for this purpose to purchase, lease, rent, or otherwise hold lands, and right-of-way either within or without the corporate limits of said city, and make all ordinances, rules and regulations necessary in the establishing, maintaining, controlling and preserving said system, and in renting lights and power to customers. Before said system shall be installed, said Mayor and Councilmen shall have power and authority to issue bonds in a sum not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), which said bonds shall bear an annual rate of interest not to exceed six per centum and shall be issued in such denominations as the said Mayor and Councilmen shall see fit, and shall be paid within twenty years from their issuance, but said Mayor and Councilmen may refund said bonds in an earlier period than twenty years; and that at the time and before said bonds are issued, said Mayor and Councilmen shall provide for the levy and collection of taxes over and above other taxes in and for said city sufficient to pay the principal and interest due on said bonds whenever the same may become due and payable before said bonds shall be issued, the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall order an election for said bonds at which all voters qualified to vote for Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall be eligible to vote. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall give notice of said election by posting the same in at least three conspicuous places in said city for ten days next prior to holding of said election, and the same shall be held under the same rules and regulations as elections for Mayor and Councilmen of said city are held. At said election all voters in favor of such bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots "For electric light bonds," those against said bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots "Against electric light bonds." If two-thirds (⅔) of the qualified voters, voting at said election, shall cast their ballots for said bonds, then it shall be the duty of the said Mayor and Councilmen to issue said bonds.
Sec. 83. - Street improvement bonds; election.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of the said City of Clayton, Georgia, shall have power and authority to issue bonds in the sum not exceeding twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars, to be issued in such denominations as the Mayor and Councilmen may determine and to bear the rate of interest not to exceed six per centum per annum, said bonds to mature within thirty years from the date of the issuing of same, but the Mayor and Councilmen may pay up the same within a less period of time than thirty years. Before said bonds shall be issued, said Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall order an election, at which all voters which are eligible to vote for the Mayor and Councilmen of said city shall be entitled to vote. Those in favor of bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots "For bonds for street and improvements." Those against bonds shall have written or printed on their ballots "Against bonds for street paving and improvement." If two-thirds of the qualified voters voting at said election shall cast their ballots for such election shall cast their ballots for such bonds, the Mayor and Councilmen shall issue the same, and the proceeds of the sale thereof shall be used for the improvement and paving of said streets, roads and alleys. Said Mayor and Councilmen shall post notices of said election for at least ten days next prior to the holding thereof in three conspicuous places in said city, and said election shall be held under such rules and regulations as elections for Mayor and Councilmen are held for said city at or before the issuing of said bonds or any part thereof. And the said Mayor and Council shall prepare for the assessment, levy and collection of taxes over and above the other taxes in said City of Clayton, Georgia, with which to pay the annual interest and the principal of said bonds when the same shall become due. If said election shall not be in favor of bonds, the Mayor and Councilmen shall have the right and power to order other elections, not nearer than six months apart until said bond issue shall carry.
Sec. 84. - Financial statement.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the Mayor and Councilmen of said City of Clayton shall publish twice every year in the official organ of Rabun County an itemized and detailed statement of all receipts and disbursements of the City of Clayton and showing the amount in the City Treasury at the time of said publication, said statement to show to whom, in what amount and for what purpose each expenditure was made, the expenses of said publication to be paid out of the City Treasury.
