Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement saved from repeal, § 1-11(2); civil emergencies, ch. 30; courts, ch. 34; elections, ch. 38; administration of flood damage prevention, § 50-47 et seq.; law enforcement, ch. 58; personnel, ch. 70; planning and development, ch. 74; taxation, ch. 94; administration of motel tax, § 94-134; utilities, ch. 102; administration and enforcement of zoning, ch. 106, art. VII.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Use of public equipment for nongovernmental purpose.
(a)
City equipment and machinery shall not be employed for any private, nongovernmental purpose.
(b)
Any city employee violating this section will be subject to dismissal.
(Code 1990, § 5-1-1; Code 2005, § 2-1)
Secs. 2-2—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Charter reference— Legislative authority vested in mayor and five councilmen, § 2.10; election by plurality method, § 6.12.

Sec. 2-21. - Time and place of regular meetings.
Regular meetings of the mayor and city council shall be held on the second Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. at the city hall.
(Code 1990, § 2-1-1; Code 2005, § 2-31; Ord. No. 01286, 12-18-2017)
State Law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-22. - Attendance at meetings.
It shall be the duty of the mayor and each member of the city council, the city manager, the city clerk, and department heads, as requested by the mayor and city council or city manager, to attend all council meetings and to be present at the place of holding such meetings at the prescribed hour, whether the meeting is regular, adjourned, or called, having been given due notice of the meeting. Any governing body member absent without excuse from such a meeting at the time when the meeting is called shall forfeit such sum as established from time to time by the mayor and city council, which sum shall be deducted from his salary due for services rendered during the pay period in which he is absent.
(Code 1990, § 2-1-2; Code 2005, § 2-32)
Sec. 2-23. - Enactment of ordinances.
No ordinance shall be adopted unless it shall first have been read at two council meetings, provided that this rule may be suspended by majority vote of those present at a meeting.
(Code 1990, § 2-1-3; Code 2005, § 2-33)
Charter reference— Ordinances to be in written form, § 2.40; council may prescribe enactment procedure by ordinance, § 2.41.
Sec. 2-24. - Code of ethics.
All government, of right, originates with the people, is founded upon their will only, and is instituted solely for the good of the whole. Public officers are the trustees and servants of the people and are at all times amenable to them. (Georgia Constitution, article 1, section 11, paragraph 1.)
(1)
Division A. The public trust requires public servants to fulfill their duties faithfully and honestly and to subordinate any personal interest which conflicts with the public interest. A public servant is a trustee of the people and should strive to further the general welfare and not use a public office in order to improve his own private standing. The principal policies which form the foundation of this code of ethics are:
a.
The trust of citizens in their government is cultivated when individual public servants act with integrity and when the public is aware that its servants act with integrity.
b.
The constitutional laws and regulations of the United States and the State of Georgia and ordinances of the City of Tallapoosa should be upheld as a de minimus standard of conduct.
c.
The most effective way to eradicate unethical practices is to consistently act with the highest moral principles and to consistently react appropriately to the ethical decisions of others.
d.
Elected officials should exercise sound judgement and apply ethical principles in making decision that in any manner reflect upon their elected office.
e.
All citizens should be treated with courtesy, impartiality and equality.
(2)
Division B. It is the intent of this code of ethics that the mayor and/or a member of the city council shall not knowingly engage in any activity which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which would tend to impair his judgment or actions in the performance of his official duties. Furthermore, mayor and members of the council should avoid any action which might result in, or create the appearance of, the following:
a.
Using public office for private gain.
b.
Impeding city efficiency or economy.
c.
Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of those who conduct the affairs and business of the city.
(3)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Benefit means:
1.
Anything, regardless of its monetary value, perceived or intended, by either the one who offers it or the one to whom it is offered, to be sufficient in value to influence a member of the mayor and council in the performance or non-performance of an official action; or
2.
Anything, regardless of its monetary value, which, under the circumstances, a reasonably prudent person would recognize as being likely to be intended to influence a member of the mayor and council in the performance or non-performance of an official action.
Employee means any person who is employed in a position covered by the position classification plan of the city; and any person who is employed part-time by any operating department of the city; and any person who is employed through a contractual agreement with the city.
Government or city means the City of Tallapoosa, Georgia.
Immediate family means spouse, child, parent or sibling of an elected city official.
Interest means any direct or indirect financial gain accruing to a member of the mayor and council as a result of a contract or transaction that is, or may be, the subject of an official act or action by, or with, the city. Interest shall not mean any direct or indirect financial gain which is remote or insignificant.
Mayor and council means any person who is an elected official, including any person who has been elected but whose term of office has not started.
(4)
Acceptance of gifts. Members of the mayor and council shall not solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any benefit from any person, corporation or group which has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relationships with the city.
(5)
Financial interests.
a.
A member of the mayor and council may not:
1.
Have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts with his responsibilities and duties as a trustee of the public good.
2.
Either directly or indirectly engage in financial transactions as a result of, or primarily relying upon, information obtained in the course of his office, or received due to his position.
b.
A member of the mayor and council shall be deemed to have a financial interest transaction involving the following:
1.
Any person in the member's immediate family.
2.
Any person with whom a contractual relationship exists whereby the member may receive any payment or other benefit.
3.
Any business in which the mayor and any member of the city council is a director, officer, employee, agent, or shareholder.
(6)
Use of public property. A member of the mayor and council shall not use city property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, nor shall he direct employees to use such property for other than official purposes.
(7)
Use of confidential information. A member of the mayor and council shall not directly make use of, or permit others to make use of, for the purpose of furthering a private interest, city information not made available to the general public.
(8)
Coercion.
a.
A member of the mayor and council shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, another person to provide any benefits to him or to a person within his family, or for those with whom the member of the council has business or financial ties.
b.
A member of the mayor and council shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a city employee, an appointed official of the city or a contract employee to provide any benefit to him or to persons within his immediate family.
c.
A member of the mayor and council shall not use his position in any way to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a municipal court judge in the outcome of matters before the municipal court.
(9)
Purchases. A member of the mayor and council shall not order any goods or services for the city or on behalf of the city without prior authorization from the mayor and council or its designee.
(10)
City employee. A member of the mayor and council shall not use a city employee for personal or private business during regular business hours or during the employee's scheduled shift. A member of the mayor and council shall pay just compensation and shall not receive or expect a discount or special rate.
(11)
Travel expenses. A member of the mayor and council shall not draw per diem or expense money from the city to attend a seminar, convention, conference or similar meeting and then fail to attend the seminar, conference, convention or similar meeting, without refunding the pro-rata unused per diem or expense monies to the city.
(12)
Commitments. A member of the mayor and council shall not act or create the appearance of acting on behalf of a member of the council by promising to authorize or prevent any future official action of any nature, without prior authorization from the mayor and council or its designee.
(13)
Candidates. No person who has qualified, and is seeking to become an elected official, shall make a false or materially misleading statement or in any manner commit fraud or conceal wrong doing or withhold information regarding wrong doing in relation to any city or public business.
(14)
Disclosure. A member of the mayor and council shall disclose the nature of any interest or benefit he has at the time such matter is presented to the mayor and council for discussion and/or action. Such disclosure shall be recorded into the minutes of the meeting and become part of the public record. Following any disclosure made pursuant to this code of ethics, the member shall not participate in any ex-parte communications with other members regarding the matter at hand.
(15)
Deliberation and vote prohibited. No member of the mayor and council shall participate in the discussion, debate, deliberation or vote, or otherwise take part in the decision-making process on any agenda item, any official act or action in which he has a conflict of interest.
(16)
Temporary absence due to conflict of interest. To avoid the appearance of impropriety, after any member of the mayor and council is determined to have a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest in any matter, the mayor and the member of the city council shall leave his regular seat as a member of the council and not return to it until deliberation and action on the matter is completed.
(17)
Ethics committee. The mayor and council shall appoint an ethics committee consisting of three persons. At least one member shall be an attorney in good standing with the State Bar of Georgia. All members shall be residents of the city and shall serve a three-year term. Members of the ethics committee must be approved by at least a four-fifths vote of the mayor and council and shall be appointed initially in such manner as to permit one term to terminate each year. The members of the ethics committee shall serve without compensation.
(18)
Receipt of complaints.
a.
All complaints against a member of the mayor and council shall be filed in writing with the city manager and referred to the ethics committee in such form as may be prescribed by the ethics committee.
b.
Upon receipt of a complaint in proper form, the ethics committee shall:
1.
Review it to determine whether the complaint is unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or fails to state facts sufficient to invoke the disciplinary action or is to be considered for further investigation.
2.
Be empowered to dismiss those complaints which are unjustified, frivolous, patently unfounded or which fail to state fact sufficient to invoke the disciplinary jurisdiction of the mayor and the city council; provided, however, that a rejection of such a complaint by the ethics committee shall not deprive the complaining party of any action he might otherwise have at law or in equity against the respondents government servant.
3.
Be empowered to collect evidence and information concerning any complaint and to add to the findings and results of its investigations to the file containing such complaint.
4.
Be empowered to conduct probable cause investigations, to take evidence and hold hearings.
5.
Make recommendations to the mayor and council to invoke disciplinary action as described in subsection (20) of this section. The mayor and council shall take action upon the recommendation of the ethics committee at the next regular meeting of the mayor and council following receipt of the recommendation.
6.
All actions taken by the ethics committee shall be taken within 30 days of receipt of the complaint. The decision by the ethics committee shall be reduced to writing and served upon all parties at interest within five days of reaching a decision.
(19)
Right to appeal. Decisions of the mayor and council pursuant to this code of ethics for members of the mayor and council shall be reviewed by the superior court of the county upon notice in writing filed within 30 days of receipt of notice of the decision of the ethics committee. Review by the superior court shall be limited to an inquiry of whether there was any evidence before the mayor and council which supported the decision of the mayor and council. Provided, however, no action of the mayor and council refusing or failing to take action pursuant to the code of ethics shall be reviewable by the superior court.
(20)
Penalties. Any violation of this code of ethics shall subject the offender to:
a.
Disciplinary action which may include private reprimand, public reprimand and/or impeachment.
b.
A fine of up to $600.00.
(21)
Severability clause. If any provision of this section is invalidated by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction, the provision so found to be invalid shall be considered a separate and distinct part of this section and such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of the section as a whole or any part except the part declared to be invalid.
(Ord. No. 01257, exh. 2007-A, 4-9-2007)
Secs. 2-25—2-51. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]
Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Charter reference— Council's authority to determine administrative structure, §§ 3.10, 3.11.
Cross reference— Election officials, § 38-2; chief of police, § 58-1; zoning enforcement officer, § 106-204.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-52. - Bond; oath.
(a)
Any officer or employee who may be so required by the city council shall give such bond for the faithful performance of his duties, in such sum as may be fixed by the mayor and city council and with such sureties as are approved by the city council. In case any person fails to make the required bond within ten days after notice to do so, his appointment shall be vacated.
(b)
Each officer of the city shall take and subscribe to the oath for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office in the form prescribed by the Charter for the mayor and members of the city council.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-1; Code 2005, § 2-61)
Charter reference— Oath of office, § 2.14.
State Law reference— Powers of municipality generally, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-53. - Books and records to be turned over to successor.
All city officers, at the expiration of their term of office, shall turn over all books, papers, and other records pertaining to city affairs. Upon failure to comply with this section, an officer shall be subject to the penalty as prescribed in section 1-7.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-2; Code 2005, § 2-62)
Sec. 2-54. - Duties of city clerk.
In addition to those duties prescribed by the Charter, the city clerk shall:
(1)
Issue business licenses.
(2)
Receive all monies derived from fines, taxes, license fees or other sources, and properly account therefor.
(3)
Pay out, on properly drawn warrants, signed by the mayor or city manager, all disbursements authorized by the mayor and city council.
(4)
Make such reports as required by the city manager or mayor and city council.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-3; Code 2005, § 2-63)
Charter reference— Appointment and duties of clerk, § 3.40.
Sec. 2-55. - Departments established.
The following departments are established for the city:
(1)
Administrative;
(2)
Police;
(3)
Fire;
(4)
Public works;
(5)
Recreation; and
(6)
Planning.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-4; Code 2005, § 2-64)
Sec. 2-56. - Records management.
(a)
The administrative department is responsible for records management activities, and the city clerk is designated to act for and in behalf of the city in directing and coordinating all records management matters.
(b)
Records shall be maintained in accordance with approved retention schedules.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-5; Code 2005, § 2-65)
State Law reference— Records management program, O.C.G.A. § 50-18-90 et seq.
Secs. 2-57—2-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 2-86. - Policy.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this division, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors' insurance, as authorized by the federal Social Security Act, the Georgia Enabling Act, and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-21; Code 2005, § 2-91)
State Law reference— Social security coverage adopted, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-87. - Execution of agreements.
The mayor, or other chief executive officer of the city, is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and officials, as provided for in section 2-92, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner provided by such law.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-22; Code 2005, § 2-92)
Sec. 2-88. - Salary deductions.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in section 2-86 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-23; Code 2005, § 2-93)
Sec. 2-89. - Appropriations by city.
There shall be appropriated from the general fund such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal law or regulations for employer's contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to ensure the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 2-92. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by that agency.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-24; Code 2005, § 2-94)
Sec. 2-90. - Records and reports.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports pursuant to this division as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-25; Code 2005, § 2-95)
Sec. 2-91. - Exempt persons.
There is hereby excluded from this division any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-26; Code 2005, § 2-96)
Sec. 2-92. - Agreement amendment.
(a)
The mayor or other designated official of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute an agreement amending the original plan and agreement with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, in substantially the form of exhibit A on file in the office of the city clerk, providing for the release of social security escrow deposits.
(b)
The city agrees to abide by the rules and regulations of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, referred to in this section as the "state agency," in regard to collections from city employees and in making reports and payments to the state agency.
(c)
The city hereby pledges an amount which it would receive in state grant funds as security for assurance that it will make collections from its employees, submit required reports, and remit payments to the state agency as agreed to in its plan of coverage of employees for social security benefits. The city further agrees that if the amount of state grant funds which it is entitled to receive in a calendar year is less than its annual payment to the state agency, as may be determined by the state agency, then the city shall deposit in escrow, when so notified in writing by the state agency and in accordance with its rules and regulations, an amount which, when added to the city's state grant funds, would total an amount sufficient to meet its obligations of reporting and remitting collections to the state agency.
(Code 1990, § 2-3-27; Code 2005, § 2-97)
Secs. 2-93—2-112. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FINANCE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Charter reference— Borrowing authority, §§ 4.20, 4.21; fiscal year, § 4.30; budget preparation, § 4.31; audits, § 4.34.
Cross reference— Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness saved from repeal, § 1-11(1); any ordinance making or approving any appropriation or budget saved from repeal, § 1-11(4); taxation, ch. 94.
State Law reference— Budgets and audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-113. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year for the city shall be from the period of September 1 through August 31 of each calendar year.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-1; Code 2005, § 2-141)
Charter reference— Fiscal year, § 4.30.
State Law reference— Establishing a fiscal year, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-114. - Disposition of monies collected by city.
All monies collected for and by direction of the city by any of its officers or agents shall be paid to the city clerk, who shall keep account of all collections.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-2; Code 2005, § 2-142)
State Law reference— Accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-115. - Purchasing agent; purchase orders.
(a)
The city manager shall serve as purchasing agent for the city.
(b)
Purchase orders for capital expenditures shall be obtained and processed through the office of the purchasing agent.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided in this article, the purchasing agent shall:
(1)
Arrange and negotiate the purchase of or contract for all equipment and contractual services for the city, and sell or otherwise dispose of all surplus equipment of the city;
(2)
Maintain a perpetual or periodic inventory record of all materials, supplies or equipment of the city; and
(3)
Control and supervise all storerooms and warehouses of the city.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-3; Code 2005, § 2-143)
Sec. 2-116. - Unauthorized purchases.
It shall be unlawful for any city officer or employee to order the purchase of any supplies or make any contract within the purview of this article other than in compliance with this article, and any purchase order or contract made contrary to the provisions of this article shall not be approved by city officials, and the city shall not be bound thereby.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-4; Code 2005, § 2-144)
Sec. 2-117. - Competitive bidding.
(a)
All contracts for capital expenditures exceeding $500.00 and all sales of personal property of the city of a value exceeding $500.00 which have become obsolete and unusable shall, except as otherwise provided in this article, be based wherever reasonably possible on three or more sealed competitive bids and be approved by the mayor and city council. If it is not reasonably possible to obtain such bids, then as many competitive bids or quotations as possible shall be obtained.
(b)
The lowest bid for purchases and the highest bid for sales shall be accepted, unless the mayor and city council find that the lowest bid is not in the city's best interest, whereupon the city council may accept another bid or may call for additional bids.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-5; Code 2005, § 2-145)
Sec. 2-118. - Cooperative purchasing.
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to join with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the city would be served thereby.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-6; Code 2005, § 2-146)
Sec. 2-119. - Contracts.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless the following requirements are fulfilled:
(1)
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to bind the city by contract for any purchase or contract for equipment, supplies and contractual services for the city with the exception of capital expenditures in an amount up to $1,500.00, provided the equipment, supplies or contractual services have been budgeted for that department and other purchasing and contracting requirements are fulfilled.
(2)
Upon approval by motion of the mayor and city council, all other contracts shall be authorized and signed by the mayor or a person designated in writing by the city council, provided the designation is for a specific contract or subject only.
(3)
All contracts shall be in writing and approved as to form by the city attorney.
(4)
The city clerk shall authenticate all contracts and shall maintain a permanent indexed file of original copies of all city contracts.
(5)
No contract for the sale, lease or purchase of real estate shall be valid without the approval of the mayor and city council expressed by a motion to that effect adopted by a majority of the council members present.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-7; Code 2005, § 2-147)
Charter reference— Contracting procedures, § 4.40 et seq.
State Law reference— Requirement for performance and payment bonds, O.C.G.A. § 13-10-1 et seq.; sale of municipal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-6.
Sec. 2-120. - Annual budget.
An annual budget shall be adopted by the mayor and city council prior to the first day of the fiscal year. However, if for good and sufficient reasons the budget cannot be adopted by the first day of the fiscal year, the budget shall be adopted not later than 45 days subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year. If the budget is not adopted prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, this section automatically authorizes the continuation of necessary and essential expenditures to operate the city. The budget as adopted shall be a balanced budget with anticipated revenues (including appropriated unencumbered surplus) equal to appropriated expenditures. All funds within the budget shall also be balanced.
(Code 1990, § 3-1-8; Code 2005, § 2-148)
Charter reference— Budget preparation, § 4.31.
State Law reference— Preparation, submission and review of annual budget, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-5.
Secs. 2-121—2-138. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Animals control board, § 14-31; museum department and museum advisory board, § 66-75 et seq.; planning commission, § 74-19 et seq.; development authority, § 74-79 et seq.; downtown development authority, § 74-108 et seq.; board of zoning appeals, ch. 106, art. VIII.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 2-139—2-159. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PLANNING COMMISSION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Planning commission, § 74-19 et seq.
State Law reference— Municipal planning, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-160. - Membership.
The city planning commission shall consist of seven members who shall be present at all commission meetings and who shall be residents of the city, appointed by the mayor and city council. The terms of the members shall be for three years, except that on the appointment of the first planning commission, the first three members shall be appointed for a term of one year, the second three members shall be appointed for a term of two years, and the seventh member shall be appointed for a term of three years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the expired term by the mayor and city council, who shall also have the authority to remove any member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Code 2005, § 2-191; Res. No. 05369, § 1, 5-4-1992)
Sec. 2-161. - Organization; rules; staff; finances.
(a)
The planning commission shall elect its chairperson from among its members. The term of the chairperson shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The planning commission shall appoint a secretary, who may be an officer or employee of the city. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the planning commission shall be a public record.
(b)
The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work with the approval of the mayor and city council and may contract with city planners or other consultants for such services as it may require with approval of the mayor and city council. The expenditures of the planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the mayor and city council.
(Code 2005, § 2-192; Res. No. 05369, § 2, 5-4-1992)
Sec. 2-162. - Powers and duties.
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers and shall have adopted its rules and procedures, utilizing as a guide the Zoning Procedures Law (O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.), it shall have powers and duties as may be delegated by the mayor and city council.
(Code 2005, § 2-193; Res. No. 05369, § 3, 5-4-1992)
