CHAPTER VII. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 7.10. - Creation of Municipal Court.
There is hereby established a Court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Tallapoosa which shall have jurisdiction and authority to try offenses against the laws and ordinances of said City and to punish for a violation of the same. Such court shall have the power and authority to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; to punish any person who may counsel, advise, aid, encourage, or persuade another whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before the Court to go or move beyond the reach of the process of the Court; and to try all offenses within the territorial limits of the City which under the laws of Georgia are placed within the jurisdiction of municipal or police courts to the extent of and in accordance with the provisions of such laws and all laws subsequently enacted amendatory thereof.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1104), page 6305, ยง 1)
Sec. 7.11. - Judge.
(a)
The Mayor shall serve as the Judge of the Municipal Court; however, the Mayor may appoint an individual to serve as the Judge and delegate to him all duties and authority of that office.
(b)
Before assuming the duties of his office, the Judge shall take an oath before an officer duly authorized to administer oaths in this State that he will truly, honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability without fear, favor or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the meeting of the Mayor and Council.
(c)
The compensation of the Judge shall be fixed by the Council.
Sec. 7.12. - Convening.
The Municipal Court shall be convened at such times as designated by ordinance or at such times as deemed necessary to keep current the dockets thereof.
Sec. 7.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The Municipal Court shall try and punish for crimes against the City of Tallapoosa and for violation of its ordinances. The Municipal Court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt; provided that such punishment shall not exceed $500.00 or thirty days in jail. Except for violations of ordinances in which a particular penalty has been prescribed, the Municipal Court may impose in its discretion any fine not exceeding One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars or imprisonment for six (6) months, or both. The Court may also sentence any person to perform community service for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
(b)
The Municipal Court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to Superior Courts for violation of State law.
(c)
The Judge shall be to all intents and purposes a Justice of the Peace, so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the limits of the City of Tallapoosa, which warrants may be executed by any officer of the City, and to commit the offenders to jail or admit them to bail in bailable cases for their appearance at the next term of court of competent jurisdiction. The Municipal Court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with that of a Justice of the Peace over offenses against the criminal cases of the State committed within the Corporate Limits.
(d)
The Municipal Court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears that probable cause exists to believe that a State law has been violated.
(e)
The Municipal Court shall have the authority to administer oaths and to perform all other acts necessary or proper to the conduct of the Court.
(f)
The Municipal Court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by State law.
(g)
The Municipal Court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of the City of Tallapoosa granted by State laws generally to municipal, recorder's and police courts and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances.
(1976 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1441), page 4262; 1992 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 1104), page 6305, ยง 2; Ord. No. 01202, 6-14-1999)
Sec. 7.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs on appeal to the Superior Court of Haralson County from the Municipal Court shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the Probate Court; provided, that any person who fails to file an appeal within ten (10) days of the date of his conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the Superior Court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Sec. 7.15. - Rules for court.
With the approval of the Mayor and Council, the Judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the Municipal Court; provided, however, that the Mayor and Council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations relative to the procedures of the operation of the Superior Courts under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted for the Municipal Court shall be filed with the City Clerk, and shall be available for public inspection. A copy shall be furnished to any defendant in Municipal Court proceedings if requested at least 48 hours prior to the proceedings.
