PART I - LOCAL ACTS
ARTICLE I. - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS[1]

Sec. 1.1. - Commissioner districts created.
For purposes of electing members of the board of commissioners, the county is divided into five commissioner districts. One member of the board shall be elected from each such district. The five commissioner districts shall be and correspond to those five numbered districts described in, attached to and made a part of House Bill 783 identified as "Plan: laurensccR-2012. Plant Type: Local Administrator: Laurens CC. User: SE," subject to the following:
(1)
When used in such attachment, the term "VTD" (voting tabulation district) shall mean and describe the same geographical boundaries as provided in the report of the Federal Bureau of the Census for the decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(2)
The separate numeric designations in a district description which are underneath a VTD heading shall mean and describe individual blocks within a VTD as provided in the report of the federal Bureau of the Census for the decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia. Any part of the county that is not included in any such district described in that attachment shall be included within that district contiguous to such part that contains the least population according to the federal decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(3)
Any part of the county that is described in that attachment as being in a particular district shall nevertheless not be included within such district if such part is not contiguous to such district. Such noncontiguous part shall instead be included within that district contiguous to such part that contains the least population according to federal decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
(4)
Except as otherwise provided in the description of any education district, whenever the description of such district refers to a named city, it shall mean the geographical boundaries of that city as shown on the census map for the federal decennial census of 2010 for the State of Georgia.
Sec. 1.2. - Election; qualifications; terms; vacancies.
(a)
The board of commissioners of Laurens County, Georgia, shall be composed of five members. One commissioner shall be elected from each of the commissioner districts designated in Section 1.1. In any such election for members of the board of commissioners, at the time of qualifying each candidate shall designate the commissioner district for which such person is offering. No person shall be eligible to serve as a member of said board of commissioners unless at the time of election such person is a qualified voter and shall have been a resident of Laurens County at least 12 months and is at least 21 years of age.
(b)
Those persons serving as members of the board of commissioners shall be elected by the qualified voters of the county and shall serve terms of four years, beginning on January 1 following their election and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(c)
Any vacancy occurring on the board of commissioners within the last 12 months of a term of office shall be filled by a majority of the remaining members of the board appointing a person to serve out the unexpired term of office. Any vacancy occurring other than within the last 12 months of a term of office shall be filled for the unexpired term by a special election which shall be held within 45 days after such vacancy occurs.
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 3016)
Secs. 1.3, 1.4. - Reserved.
Sec. 1.5. - Compensation.
Each member of the board of commissioners of Laurens County shall receive as compensation for his services a sum, determined within the discretion of the board of commissioners, not to exceed $4,800.00 per annum and payable in equal monthly installments. Commissioners who have completed certified county commissioner training shall receive an additional $100.00 per month supplement in addition to other compensation they receive. They shall be required to give all of the time and attention necessary to adequately and efficiently perform their duties as is required of them by law and good business practice.
(1975 Ga. Laws, page 4485)
Sec. 1.6. - Certified public accountant to audit books and records of county officials.
The board of commissioners shall appoint, no later than July 15 of each year, a certified public accountant or a firm of certified public accountants to audit for the current fiscal year of Laurens County, which shall be from July 1 to June 30 inclusive, all the books and accounts of the county officials hereinbefore named and all other county officers, officials and persons receiving or disbursing county funds. Said accountant or accountants shall audit all books, accounts vouchers, warrants, and other records of the entire county up to the first day of July of the year following his or their appointment and make a report of the findings, together with his or their comments, criticisms, and recommendations, to the board of commissioners for their review and consideration . The board of commissioners shall prescribe the amount to be paid for the services of said accountant and shall provide for the payment of such amount.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2077; 1964 Ga. Laws Ex Sess, page 2335)
Sec. 1.7. - Employment of commissioners' relatives.
(a)
The board of commissioners is prohibited from employing as administrator, attorney or auditor of the county any person related to any member of board of commissioners within the following degree: father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, niece or nephew. Any employment of any person within any of the degrees of relationship herein listed is hereby prohibited, and shall be illegal.
(b)
The county administrator is prohibited from employing as officer, agent, servant or employee of the county any person related to the administrator or any member of the board of commissioners with the following degree: father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, niece or nephew. Any employment of any person within any of the degrees of relationship herein listed is hereby prohibited, and shall be illegal.
(c)
Any person hired or employed in violation of this section shall not be entitled to receive any compensation whatsoever for any services rendered.
(d)
The provisions of this section shall not apply to any county employee who is already employed by the county when his relative is elected to a county office which would otherwise disqualify him from employment under the terms of this section.
(1960 Ga. Laws, page 2077; 1982 Ga. Laws, page 5166)
ARTICLE II. - COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR[2]

Sec. 2.1. - County administrator.
There is hereby created the office of county administrator of Laurens County. The county administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the board of commissioners of Laurens County to serve at the pleasure of said board for an indefinite term. In addition to the duties contained herein, the county administrator shall assume all of the duties of the clerk to the board of commissioners. The position of county clerk shall be abolished. No member of the board of commissioners shall be appointed county administrator during the term of office for which he or she is elected or for a period of one year thereafter.
Sec. 2.2. - Qualifications of county administrator.
The county administrator shall be chosen by the board solely upon the basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications with specific reference to his or her actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties of his or her office as set forth in this section.
Sec. 2.3. - Duties of county administrator.
The board of commissioners of Laurens County shall continue to be the chief executive entity of the county, and it shall be the duty of the board to set the overall executive policies and procedures of the county. The county administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the county and shall be responsible to the board for the proper and efficient administration of all the affairs of the county except as otherwise provided by law. In addition, it shall be the duty of the county administrator to:
(a)
To appoint and remove all officers and employees of the county which the commissioners have been heretofore empowered to appoint and discharge, except the county attorney and the outside auditor, who shall be appointed and removed by the board of commissioners;
(b)
To see that all laws and ordinances of the county are enforced;
(c)
To exercise control over all departments or divisions of the county which the board has heretofore exercised or that may hereafter be created;
(d)
To prepare and submit to the board of commissioners an annual budget;
(e)
To keep the board of commissioners fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of said county;
(f)
To supervise and direct the official conduct of all county officers and department heads appointed by the county administrator;
(g)
To attend all meetings of the board with the right to take part in the discussion, provided he or she shall have no vote before the board;
(h)
To be responsible for keeping all records of the board of county commissioners and for attesting to all signatures contained on documents of Laurens County; and
(i)
To perform such other duties as may be required by the board.
Sec. 2.4. - Additional duties of county administrator.
(a)
The county administrator shall be the chief purchasing agent for the county, by whom all purchases of supplies and all contracts therefor shall be made. He shall countersign with the chairman or, in the absence of the chairman from the county, the vice-chairman, or in the instance that both are absent from the county, any commission member, checks and all vouchers for the payment of the same under such rules and regulations as the board may adopt not inconsistent herewith. The board shall adopt rules for regulating purchases made by the county and the county administrator shall be governed thereby. In no event shall the county administrator be authorized to spend in excess of $2,500.00 for the purchase of any item for use by the county without the prior consent of a majority of the duly qualified members of the board.
(b)
The county administrator is further vested with the authority to countersign with the chairman or, in his absence from the county, the vice-chairman, or in the instance that both are absent from the county, any other commission member, all payroll checks for the employees of Laurens County.
(c)
The county administrator shall be directly responsible for the construction and maintenance of all roads and bridges under the jurisdiction of Laurens County. He or she shall appoint a public works director whose primary duties shall be to supervise the construction and maintenance of all county roads and bridges.
Sec. 2.5. - Bond of county administrator.
The county administrator shall be required to execute and deliver a good and sufficient bond payable to Laurens County to be approved by the board of commissioners and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. The amount of said bond shall be determined by the board of commissioners. Said bond shall be delivered to the board within five days of the county administrator assuming his or her duties and, upon receipt, shall be filed by the chairman of the board in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of Laurens County.
Sec. 2.6. - Noninterference of the board of commissioners.
Except for the purpose of inquiry and investigation, the board of commissioners shall deal with county employees who are subject to appointment and removal by the county administrator solely through the county administrator and shall not give orders or directions to any such employee, either publicly or privately, directly or indirectly.
ARTICLE III. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[3]

Sec. 3.1. - Creation; funding; membership; property; purpose.
Article VII, section V, paragraph I, of the Constitution, relating to the taxing power and restriction of contributions of counties, cities and political subdivisions, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
(1)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "City of Dublin and County of Laurens Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by the City of Dublin and County of Laurens. The city and county may contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
(2)
The city or county is authorized to levy a tax on all taxable property therein not to exceed two mills for the purpose of securing a fund to be set aside and used by said authority for the general purposes hereinafter prescribed.
(3)
The members of the Authority, their qualifications, terms and method of election or appointment, shall be prescribed by law by the General Assembly. The Authority shall have such duties, powers, and authority as shall be prescribed by law and the General Assembly may pass all other necessary legislation for the implementation of this amendment.
(4)
All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures and revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
(5)
Said Authority is created for the purpose of developing, promoting and expanding for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits. The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the City of Dublin or the County of Laurens. The Authority is created for nonprofit purposes, and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created.
Sec. 3.2. - Continuation of development authority.
That constitutional amendment creating the City of Dublin and County of Laurens Development Authority (1962 Ga. Laws, page 1160) shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(1987 Ga. Laws, page 4525)
