ARTICLE 1. - INTRODUCTION

Sec. 1-1. - Purpose and intent.
For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, and general welfare of the municipality; lessening congestion in the streets; securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers; providing adequate light and air, encouraging such distribution of land and classification of land uses to facilitate economic development and facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements; conserving the value of buildings; providing for the orderly evolution of a retail district within a mixed-use corridor along Rockbridge Road that is responsive to neighborhood needs, made with reasonable consideration of the character of the city and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, with a view to promoting and protecting a clean healthy lake and natural environment, and creating sustained protection and stability of the single-family neighborhood; protecting properties against blight and depreciation and promoting the general stability and prosperity of the city, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan, the City of Pine Lake does ordain and enact into law the following articles and sections.
Sec. 1-2. - Title.
This ordinance of the City Code will be known as the "Pine Lake Zoning Ordinance" and will be referred to as the "Zoning Ordinance."
Sec. 1-3. - Authority.
This ordinance is adopted under the authority of the Charter of the City of Pine Lake, as approved by the Governor; in pursuance of the authority given by the Art. IX, Sec. II; Para. IV of the Georgia Constitution of 1983, granting powers to municipal corporations, and is subject to all requirements of the Zoning Procedures Law of the State of Georgia, O.C.G.A., Sec. 36-66-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-4. - Severability.
Should any article, clause or provision of this ordinance be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such action shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid, each article, clause and provision hereof being declared severable.
Sec. 1-5. - Conflicts.
Insofar as the provisions of The Zoning Ordinance are inconsistent with the other ordinances of Pine Lake, the provisions of this ordinance shall be controlling. The requirements of, and restrictions imposed by, and powers conferred by, this ordinance shall be in addition and supplemental to the requirements of, and restrictions imposed by, and powers conferred by other ordinances of the city. In the event of conflicts within this ordinance, the most stringent requirement shall apply.
Sec. 1-6. - Applicability.
These regulations shall apply to all present and future land use and development on property located within the corporate limits of Pine Lake, Georgia. Standards adopted in this ordinance are intended to be minimum requirements necessary to implement the purposes of this ordinance. This ordinance shall regulate the height, number of stories, and the size of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lot that may be occupied; the dimensions of yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; the location and use of buildings and other structures; and the use, manner of use or occupancy of land; This ordinance shall also create districts for such purposes and establish district boundaries; define certain terms used here; provide for the methods of administration, enforcement and amendment; provide for penalties and resolutions and for other purposes.
