ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 22-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Accidental discharge means a discharge prohibited by this chapter which occurs by chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
Agricultural practices means practices involving the establishment, cultivation or harvesting of products of the field or orchard; the preparation and planting of pasture land or farm ponds; and the construction of farm buildings.
Appeals authority means the board, one of whose purpose is to review appeals to this article and render decisions and variances.
Applicant means a person submitting a post-development stormwater management application and plan for approval.
Best management practices (BMPs) means a wide range of management procedures, activities and prohibitions or practices which control the quality and/or quantity of stormwater runoff and which are compatible with the planned land use.
Buffer means, with respect to a stream, a natural or enhanced vegetated area (established by section 22-113(a)(1)), lying adjacent to the stream.
Channel means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
Clean Water Act means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
Conservation easement means an agreement between a landowner and the city or other government agency or land trust that permanently protects open space or greenspace on the owner's land by limiting the amount and type of development that can take place, but continues to leave the remainder of the fee interest in private ownership.
Construction activity means activities subject to the state Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act or NPDES General Construction Permits. These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
Cooling water act means water used exclusively as a cooling medium in an appliance, device or apparatus.
Conveyance means stormwater features designed for the movement of stormwater through the drainage system, such as concrete or metal pipes, ditches, depressions, swales, etc.
Department means the department of administration responsible for all stormwater management activities and implementation of the provisions of this article.
Detention means the temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a stormwater management facility for the purpose of controlling the peak discharge.
Detention facility means a detention basin or structure designed for the detention of stormwater runoff and gradual release of stored water at controlled rates.
Developer means a person who undertakes land development activities.
Development means a land development or land development project.
Development activity means:
(1)
The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, plots, sites, tracts, parcels or other divisions by plot or deed;
(2)
The construction, installation or alteration of a structure, impervious surface or drainage facility;
(3)
Clearing, scraping, grubbing or other activities significantly disturbing the soil, vegetation, mud, sand or rock of a site; or
(4)
Adding, removing, exposing, excavating, leveling, grading, digging, burrowing, dumping, piling, dredging or otherwise disturbing the soil, vegetation, mud, sand or rock of a site.
Director means either the director of administration or any of that person's duly authorized representatives.
Discharge means the release of treated or untreated water to the municipal/county separate storm sewer system.
Drainage easement means an easement appurtenant or attached to a tract or parcel of land allowing the owner of adjacent tracts or other persons to discharge stormwater runoff onto the tract or parcel of land subject to the drainage easement.
Easement means an acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Erosion and sedimentation control plan means a plan that is designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during land disturbance activities.
Extended detention means the detention of stormwater runoff for an extended period, typically 24 hours or greater.
Extreme flood protection means measures taken to prevent adverse impacts from large low-frequency storm events with a return frequency of 100 years or more.
Flood means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation normally dry land areas from:
(1)
The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
(2)
The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff or surface waters from any source.
Flooding means a volume of surface water that is too great to be confined within the banks or walls of a conveyance or stream channel and that overflows onto adjacent lands.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to flooding, which would have at least a one percent probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year based on the basin being fully developed as shown on the current land use plan (i.e., the regulatory flood map).
Generalized wetland map means a map showing the general locations of wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city.
Greenspace or open space means permanently protected areas of the site that are preserved in a natural state.
Hotspot means an area where the use of the land has the potential to generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrologic soil group (HSG) means a natural resource conservation service classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential groups. The groups range from group A soils, with high permeability and little runoff produced, to group D soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of or dependent on saturated soil conditions.
Illegal connection means either of the following:
(1)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain system, regardless of whether such pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance has been previously allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
(2)
Any pipe, open channel, drain or conveyance connected to the (municipal/county) separate storm sewer system which has not been documented in plans, maps or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
Illicit discharge means any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the (municipal/county) separate storm sewer system, except as exempted in section 22-25.
Impervious cover means a surface composed of any material that significantly impedes or prevents the natural infiltration of water into soil. Impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, rooftops, buildings, streets and roads, and any concrete or asphalt surface, as well as any manmade paved, hardened or structural surface regardless of material.
Industrial activity means activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
Industrial stormwater general permit means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to an industry for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity. The permit regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
Infiltration means the process of percolating stormwater runoff into the subsoil.
Inspection and maintenance agreement means a written agreement providing for the long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater management facilities and practices on a site or with respect to a land development project, which when properly recorded in the deed records constitutes a restriction on the title to a site or other land involved in a land development project.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Corps of Engineers or, in the case of coastal marshlands, the state department of natural resources.
Jurisdictional wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
Land development means any land change including, but not limited to, clearing, digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, construction, paving and any other installation of impervious cover.
Land development activities means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land development.
Land development project means a discrete land development undertaking.
Land disturbance means any land or vegetation change including, but not limited to, clearing, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land, that do not involve construction, paving or any other installation of impervious cover.
Land disturbance activity means those actions or activities which comprise, facilitate or result in land disturbance.
Litter means any organic or inorganic waste material, rubbish, refuse, garbage, trash, hulls, peelings, debris, grass, weeds, ashes, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, metal, plastic and glass containers, broken glass, dead animals, solvents, paint, slag, auto parts, metal or intentionally or unintentionally discarded materials of every kind and description which are not waste as such term is defined in O.C.G.A. § 16-7-51(6).
Maintenance means any action necessary to preserve stormwater management facilities in proper working condition, in order to serve the intended purposes set forth in this article or to prevent structural failure of such facilities.
National pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) stormwater discharge permit means a permit issued by the state EPD under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
New development means a land development activity on a previously undeveloped site.
Nonpoint source pollution means a form of water pollution that does not originate from a discrete point such as a sewage treatment plant or industrial discharge, but involves the transport of pollutants such as sediment, fertilizers, pesticides, heavy metals, oil, grease, bacteria, organic materials and other contaminants from land to surface water and groundwater via mechanisms such as precipitation, stormwater runoff and leaching. Nonpoint source pollution is a by-product of land use practices such as agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction, subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
Nonstormwater discharge means any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
Nonstructural stormwater management practice or nonstructural practice means any natural or planted vegetation or other nonstructural component of the stormwater management plan that provides for or enhances stormwater quantity and/or quality control or other stormwater management benefits and includes, but is not limited to, riparian buffers, open and greenspace areas, overland flow filtration areas, natural depressions and vegetated channels.
Off-site facility means a stormwater management facility located outside the boundaries of the site.
On-site facility means a stormwater management facility located within the boundaries of the site.
Overbank flood protection means measures taken to prevent an increase in the frequency and magnitude of out-of-bank flooding (i.e., flow events that exceed the capacity of the channel and enter the floodplain), and that are intended to protect downstream properties from flooding for the two-year through 25-year frequency storm events.
Owner means the legal or beneficial owner of a site including, but not limited to, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person in control of the site.
Parcel means any plot, lot or acreage shown as a unit on the latest county tax assessment records or city records.
Permit means the permit issued by the city to the applicant which is required for undertaking any land development activity.
Person means, except to the extent exempted from this article, any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, city, county or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body or any other legal entity.
Pine Lake separate storm sewer system or municipal/county system means any facility designed or used for collecting and/or conveying stormwater including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, highways, city streets, curbs, gutters, inlets, catchbasins, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, structural stormwater controls, ditches, swales, natural and manmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures, and which is:
(1)
Owned or maintained all or in part by the city;
(2)
Not a combined sewer; and
(3)
Not part of a publicly-owned treatment works.
Pollutant means anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; petroleum hydrocarbons; automotive fluids; cooking grease; detergents (biodegradable or otherwise); degreasers; cleaning chemicals; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; liquid and solid wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; concrete and cement; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
Pollution means the contamination or other alteration of any water's physical, chemical or biological properties by the addition of any constituent and includes, but is not limited to, a change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity or odor of such waters, or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive or other substance into any such waters as will or is likely to create a nuisance or render such waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or environment, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or other legitimate beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.
Post-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that may reasonably be expected or anticipated to exist, after completion of the land development activity on a site as the context may require.
Pre-development refers to the time period, or the conditions that exist, on a site prior to the commencement of a land development project and at the time that plans for the land development of a site are approved by the plan approving authority. Where phased development or plan approval occurs (preliminary grading, roads and utilities, etc.), the existing conditions at the time prior to the first item being approved or permitted shall establish pre-development conditions.
Premises mean any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
Private means property or facilities owned by individuals, corporations and other organizations and not by the city, county, state or federal government.
Procedure means a procedure adopted by the utility, by and through the director, to implement a regulation or regulations adopted under this article, or to carry out other responsibilities as may be required by this Code or other codes, ordinances or resolutions of the city or other agencies.
Project means a land development project.
Protection area or stream protection area means, with respect to a stream, the combined areas of all required buffers and setbacks applicable to such stream.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores or beaches thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; timberlands or forests; and residential, commercial, industrial or farm properties.
Redevelopment means a land development project on a previously developed site, but excludes ordinary maintenance activities, remodeling of existing buildings, resurfacing of paved areas, and exterior changes or improvements which do not materially increase or concentrate stormwater runoff, or cause additional nonpoint source pollution.
Regional stormwater management facility or regional facility means stormwater management facilities designed to control stormwater runoff from multiple properties, where the owners or developers of the individual properties may assist in the financing of the facility, and the requirement for on-site controls is either eliminated or reduced.
Regulation means any regulation, rule or requirement prepared by the department and adopted by the city pursuant to the requirements of this article.
Riparian means belonging or related to the bank of a river, stream, lake, pond or impoundment.
Runoff means stormwater runoff.
Sanitary sewer system means the complete sanitary sewer system of the city and county which discharge sewage directly or indirectly into the sewage treatment plant, including sanitary sewer pipelines, manholes and flushing inlets and appurtenances to the foregoing, but shall exclude any portion or facilities of the sewage treatment plant.
Sediment means solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has been or is being transported by water, air, ice or gravity from its site of origin.
Setback means, with respect to a stream, the area established by section 22-113(a)(2) extending beyond any buffer applicable to the stream.
Site means any lot, plot, parcel or tract of land; the parcel of land being developed or the portion thereof on which the land development project is located.
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells and other bodies of surface and subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single person.
Stormwater better site design means nonstructural site design approaches and techniques that can reduce a site's impact on the watershed and can provide for nonstructural stormwater management. Stormwater better site design includes conserving and protecting natural areas and greenspace, reducing impervious cover and using natural features for stormwater management.
Stormwater management means the collection, conveyance, storage, treatment and disposal of stormwater runoff in a manner to meet the objectives of this article and which shall include a system of vegetative of structural measures, or both, that control the increased volume and rate of stormwater runoff and water quality impacts caused by manmade changes to the land.
Stormwater management design manual means the most recent manual of design, performance and review criteria for stormwater management practices, prepared under the direction of the director of administration. Copies of the manual can be obtained from the department of administration.
Stormwater management facilities means constructed or natural components of a stormwater drainage system, designed to perform a particular function, or multiple functions, including but not limited to, pipes, swales, ditches, culverts, street gutters, detention basins, retention basins, constructed wetlands, infiltration devices, catchbasins, oil/water separators, sediment basins, natural systems and modular pavement.
Stormwater management measure means any stormwater management facility or nonstructural stormwater practice.
Stormwater management plan means the set of drawings and other documents that comprise all of the information and specifications for the drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques that will be used to control stormwater as required by this article and the stormwater management design manual. Also included are the supporting engineering calculations and results of any computer analysis.
Stormwater management system means the entire set of structural and nonstructural stormwater management facilities and practices that are used to capture, convey and control the quantity and quality of the stormwater runoff from a site.
Stormwater retrofit means a stormwater management practice designed for a currently developed site that previously had either no stormwater management practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management requirements of the site.
Stormwater runoff, runoff or stormwater means any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
Stream means any stream beginning at:
(1)
The location of a spring, seep or groundwater outflow that sustains streamflow;
(2)
A point in the stream channel with a drainage area of 25 acres or more; or
(3)
Where evidence indicates the presence of a stream in a drainage area less than 25 acres, the city may require field studies to verify the existence of a stream.
Stream bank means the sloping land that contains the stream channel and the normal flows of the stream.
Stream channel means the portion of a watercourse that contains the base flow of the stream.
Structural stormwater control means a structural stormwater management facility or device that controls stormwater runoff and changes the characteristics of that runoff including, but not limited to, the quantity and quality, the period of release or the velocity of flow.
Subdivision means any division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel, regardless of its existing or future use, into two or more lots, tracts or parcels. The term "subdivision" means the act or process of dividing property, except that, where appropriate to the context, the ownership at the time of subdivision.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in section 22-186(c)(6).
Variance means the modification of the minimum stormwater management requirements for specific circumstances where strict adherence of the requirements would result in unnecessary hardship and not fulfill the intent of this chapter.
Water quality means those characteristics of stormwater runoff that relate to the rate and volume of the stormwater runoff.
Watershed means the land area that drains into a particular stream.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similar areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the city and shown on the generalized wetland map.
(Code 1986, §§ 6-1-14(2), 6-1-14A(2), 6-1-14C(3), 6-1-14D(2), 6-1-17(10); Ord. No. 24-05, § 2, 11-14-2005; Ord. No. 2020-07 , § 1, 8-11-2020)
Sec. 22-2. - Rain sensor shut-off switches.
(a)
No person shall install any landscape irrigation system and/or sprinkler system equipped with an electronic controller that does not have a rain sensor shut-off switch.
(b)
Any person who installs, or any property owner who allows to be installed a landscape irrigation system and/or sprinkler system equipped with an electronic controller in violation of this Code shall be liable for a civil penalty not exceeding $100.00 per violation.
(Ord. No. 2009-007, 8-10-2009)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-0007, adopted August 10, 2009, did not specifically amend the Code; hence, inclusion as § 22-2 was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 22-3. - Private decentralized wastewater systems prohibited.
new
(a)
A private decentralized wastewater system' means any privately owned wastewater collection, treatment, or disposal system:
(1)
Serving more than one residential lot or business; or
(2)
That has a daily flow in excess of 2,000 gallons per day; or
(3)
That transfers flows between more than one parcel or tract of land.
(b)
The construction, permitting, or maintenance of a private decentralized wastewater system is prohibited within the boundaries of the City of Pine Lake.
( Ord. No. 2022-02 , § 1, 6-28-2022)
Secs. 22-4—22-19. - Reserved.
new
