APPENDIX A-B. - RECORD OF AMENDMENTS TO TEXT
EXPAND
Date Description
November 5, 1979 Articles V and VI - Created a summary district schedule and list of permissible and conditional uses to each zone district.
November 5, 1979 Article XI, Section E1 - Modified the minimum mobile home park size by permitting mobile home parks of less than five (5) acres a conditional use.
November 5, 1979 Article XIII - Added Section G which establishes the general requirements and administrative processes for applying for a Conditional Use Permit
November 5, 1979 Article XV, Section C-3 - Granted the Zoning Board of Appeals the powers and authority to issue permits for conditional uses listed in each Zone District.
April 4, 1988 Article VI, List of Permissible and Conditional Uses:
1) Permit tanning beds and exercise establishments in O-R, C-1, C-2, and CBD;
2) Permit fee simple townhouses in O-R and R-3 zones.
Article XV, Zoning Board of Appeals - Designate the Planning Commission as the Zoning Board of Appeals.
February 5, 1990 Article XV, Zoning Board of Appeals - Re-establish the three man Board of Appeals as originally proposed prior to April 4, 1988.
November 7, 1994 Article V, Summary Zoning District Schedule Create new Zoning District entitled Commercial Parkway District (C-3).
October 10, 1996 Article IX - Signs and Outdoor Advertising - Permit billboards conditionally.
October 9, 1997 Article II - Definitions - Expanded Additional modifications include:
— The definition of "lot" is explicit about square footage calculations in respect to easements.
— Street types are identified with reference to the County Functional Classifications System Map.
Article V - Summary Zoning District Schedule - revised to include mobile Home Parks as a district.
New Article adopted. Article VI - Buffer Requirements. New article presents topics once divided between Zoning District Schedule and Supplementary Regulations. New article contains following:
— More intense uses are screened by more substantial buffers.
— The provisions of the article are illustrated by drawings.
— Permitted planting species are determined by the zoning administrator.
— Berms are explicitly allowed in place of plantings and fences.
— There are provisions for the waiver of buffer requirements.
— Recreational use of buffers is permitted.
Article VI - List of Permissible and Conditional Uses. Renumbered as Article VII.
No use contained in the current table is omitted from the proposed table.
MAJOR CHANGES include:
— Mobile Home Parks will exist as a zoning district.
— Two categories of bed and breakfast, home and inn, are included.
— Cemeteries are classified as private, religious, or public, and cemeteries are permitted by right in conjunction with a church in any zoning district.
— Childcare is classified as group, facility, or family home, and permitted to reflect the differences. Kindergarten is considered childcare.
— Dwellings are classified to reflect different features of their construction.
— Personal care homes are classified as congregate, family home, or group, and permitted accordingly.
— Single room occupancy dwelling units are permitted as residence inns.
— Utilities are permitted conditionally in all zoning districts.
INCIDENTAL CHANGES include:
— Mobile home sales are permitted in M-1 zones.
— Boat storage will be permitted in M-1 and allowed conditionally in C-2 zones.
— Contractor equipment - material storage will be allowed in M-2 zones as a conditional use.
— Print shops (quick print copying and office supplies) are permitted in C-1, C-2, C-3, and CBD.
MISCELLANEOUS ADDITIONS include:
— Baseball batting cages, Convents and Monasteries, Explosive manufacture, Furniture, Home furnishing and equipment stores, game rooms, arcades, Garage/ basement/yard sale, Hazardous waste handling and processing, Paper, paper pulp manufacture, Studios for art, photography, etc., Transfer station, solid waste, Trust terminals, freight handling, Video sales and rental, Vocational school, Welding shop.
Article VII - Supplementary Regulations - Renumbered as Article VIII.
Deleted VII - A.10 - Buffer Area as redundant of new Article VI - Buffer Requirements.
Removed Section C - Flood Hazard and Area Development Requirements to Appendix A-A.
Added the following:
SECTION C. Appearance and Compatibility Standards to insure that the quality of new single-family housing construction will be comparable or superior to that of existing housing in the neighborhood to safeguard owner investment. Sets appearance standards for new construction and provides set of criteria to be used in assessing compatibility of new construction.
SECTION D. Landscaping Requirements to regulate landscaping of commercial and industrial development. Provides for mandatory tree planting strip along property lines abutting public right-of-way along with internal planting requirements.
SECTION E. Telecommunications Antennae and Towers to address problems associated with communication tower siting and design. Issues covered include: height, rooftop mounting, lighting, advertising, visual impact, and landscaping.
Article VIII - Planned Development Regulations replaced by Article IX - Planned Unit Developments. Intent remains the same but gives City and developers more latitude in plan development. New article recognizes PUD as floating zone to provide greater freedom in planning process.
Article IX - Signs and Outdoor Advertising - Renumbered as Article X.
Added Section G - Prohibited Signs, and requires deposit for political signs.
Article X - Traffic and Parking Regulations. Renumbered as Article XI. Liberalized parking regulations to reflect actual amount of parking needed.
Article XI - Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Regulations renumbered as Article XII.
Removed Section F - Mobile Homes on Individual Lots as legally discriminatory and as redundant of new Appearance and Compatibility Standards of Supplementary Regulations. (VIII.C).
Article XII - Non-Conforming Uses - renumbered as Article XIII.
Article XIII - Administration - renumbered as Article XIV.
Article XIV - Remedies and Penalties - Renumbered as Article XV.
Article XV - Zoning Board of Appeals - Renumbered as Article XVI.
Article XVI - Amendments - Renumbered as Article XVII.
Article XVII - Legal Status Provisions - Renumbered as Article XVIII.
Appendix: Add Appendix A-C - Application For Map Amendments.
September 14, 1998 Article VII - List of Permissible and Conditional Uses - Permit "Tower, Telecommunications" in M-1 and M-2 districts, and permit conditionally in C-2, C-3; and CBD; correct "Article III, Section D" to read "Article VIII, Section E."
Permit "Radio, TV & Communication Transmission Tower" in M-1 and M-2 districts, and permit conditionally in C-2, C-3, and CBD.
Article VIII Supplementary Regulations, Section E-1, Height Requirements - Change "No antenna or tower shall exceed 150 feet in height." to "No antenna or tower shall exceed 250 feet in height."
Article VIII Supplementary Regulations, Section E-6 Lighting - change "Planning Commission to "Zoning Board of Appeals."
Article VIII Supplementary Regulations, Section E-9 Landscaping e. Change "Planning Commission to "Zoning Board of Appeals.
October 3, 2005 Article V, Summary Zoning District Schedule- Establish a new Low Density (R-1-A) zoning district as follows: For all uses, a minimum lot area of 12,000 ft; minimum lot width of 90 ft; minimum front setback of 25 ft; minimum side yard setback of 15 ft; minimum rear yard setback of 20 ft; maximum building height of 21/2 stories/30 ft; maximum lot coverage of 30%.
Article IV, Zoning Districts and Boundaries -Include reference to R-1-A in Section A, Establishment of Districts; include reference to R-1-A in Section A, Establishment of Districts.
Article V, Summary Zoning District Schedule - Correct typographical errors as follows: in Low Density Residential (R-1), to amend "other" to "all;" in Manufactured Home Park ( ), amend "XIII" to "XII".
Article VII, List of Permissible and Conditional Uses-Include Low Density Residential (R-1-A), showing Permissible and Conditional Uses to reflect its addition to Article V, Summary District Schedule. Permissible and Conditional Uses in R-1-A shall be identical to those in R-1.
Article VII, List of Permissible and Conditional Uses-Correct a typographical error as follows: at ACCESSORY USES, amend "VI" to "VIII."
August 6, 2007 Article II- Definitions
Definition of "Dwelling, Single Family Detached" changed to exclude manufactured housing.
Definition of "Industrialized Home" replaced by definition of "Industrialized Building" to specify the structure's compatibility with the Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act.
Definition of "Manufactured Home" changed to tie definition to HUD Code of 1976.
Reference to "Industrialized Home" at "Modular Home" changed to "Industrialized Building."
Article V-Summary Zoning District Schedule
In R-2 delete references to "duplex" and "fourplex," insert "Multi-family' and associated requirements.
In R-3 and O-R delete reference to "Duplex,"
In R-3 "multi-family," change "3,300 for each add unit" to "3,200 for each add unit."
Article VII— List of Permissible and Conditional Uses
Disallow "Cemetery, Religious Institution" as a use by right in R-1, R-1-A, R-2, R-3, O-R, and MHP, and allow it as a Conditional use.
Disallow "Church" as a use by right in R-1, R-1-A, R-2, R-3, O-R, and MHP, and allow it as a Conditional use.
From "Dwelling, Single-Family Detached" delete "Type II subject to the provisions of Article VIII Section C".
Delete "Dwelling, Single-Family Detached - Type II subject to the provisions of Article VIII Section C".
Delete "Dwelling, Single-Family Detached - Type III subject to the provisions of Article VIII Section C".
Add "Manufactured Home" as a use by right in R-3, O-R, and MHP.
Article VIII - Supplementary Regulations
Delete Section C, Dwelling Appearance and Compatibility Standards, and replace it with Section C, Dwelling Standards, calling for conformity of dwellings to the "City of Chatsworth Housing Code."
Delete Table 8.1, Appearance and Compatibility Standards for Single Family Detached Dwellings, in its entirety.
Article XI, Traffic and Parking Regulations
From Section I, Off-Street Automobile Parking delete "Multi-family apartment developments" as a use, and delete "2 spaces per dwelling unit" as its requirement.
Add new Section 9, Residential Parking, specifying parking requirements for single-family dwellings.
October 1, 2007 Article IV, Zoning Districts and Boundaries
Add R-E, Residential Estate, and R-4, Townhouse/Condominium/Multi-Family Residential, to Section A, Establishment of Districts.
Article V, Summary District Zoning Schedule
Add minimum square footage of heated space requirements for RA, R-1, R-1-A, R-2, R-3, and O-R zoning districts.
Add new zoning district, R-4 Townhouse/Condominium/ Multi-family Residential, and specify requirements.
Add new zoning district, R-R Residential Estate, and specify requirements.
Article VII, List of Permissible and Conditional Uses
Add R-4, with Multi-family Residential and Townhouse/Condominium as Conditional uses.
Add R-E, with Single-family Detached Dwelling as a Permitted use.
Article XIV, Administration
Delete Section F, dealing with Conditional uses, in its entirety, and replace with a new Section F specifying the maximum number of building permits that can be issued within a given period of time.
January 2009 Article III, General Provisions
Added Section L entitled Rights of Way.
Article V, Summary Zoning District Schedule
Added building height restrictions within the Residential Estate Zoning district, as follows: 2½ stories under "Building Height" sub column "Stories" and 30 feet inserted in column "Building Height", sub-column "Feet."
Article XII, Manufactured Home and Recreational Vehicle Regulations.
Added Section B.2.a. therein, providing an age requirement of five (5) years for manufactured homes within the City of Chatsworth.
April 2009 Article II, Definitions
Added definition "Temporary Structure"
Article VIII, Supplementary Regulations
Added Section G, entitled "Requirements for Temporary Structures/Uses."
October 2009 Major cover to cover amendments. (All pages)
  ( Ord. of 10-09 )
