Chapter 10 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - Alcoholic beverages—Drinking on public, school or recreation property.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any alcoholic beverage on any street or other right-of-way within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink or consume any alcoholic beverage on school grounds and recreation properties in the city.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage outside of any place of business or parking lot thereof, which place of business sells any alcoholic beverage.
(d)
It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section where any person is in the possession of any alcoholic beverage in an unsealed container in any of the places aforementioned.
(Ord. of 6-23-80, §§ 1, 2)
State Law reference— Possession on school grounds, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.1; public intoxication, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 10-2. - Public intoxication.
It shall be unlawful for a person who shall be and appear in intoxicated condition, whether by alcohol or drugs, in any place or with the curtilage of any private property not his/her own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by being in a noticeable state of intoxication, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language.
(Code 1926, § 177; Ord. of 12-4-2017(1) , § 1)
State Law reference— Authority of city to so provide, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-41.
Sec. 10-3. - Damaging city property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously damage, deface, break or destroy any property of the city.
(Code 1926, § 234)
State Law reference— Criminal damage to property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-22 et seq.
Sec. 10-4. - Damaging, etc., electric poles, etc.
It shall be an offense to cut, break, or in any other manner damage or interfere with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole in the city used for the support of electric wires, or to throw at, break or in any other manner damage or interfere with any fixture, wire, lamp or other thing placed thereon; or to tie any horse, mule or other animal of any sort to any such pole.
(Code 1926, § 229)
State Law reference— Damaging utility property, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-25.
Sec. 10-5. - Damaging property in parks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the walks laid out in any public park and trespass upon the grass, or to deface any of the seats, fountains or other property therein by cutting or whittling thereon with a knife or other instrument, or by writing or marking thereon with a pen, pencil or other instrument, or to cut or damage any of the shade trees in such park.
(Code 1926, § 225)
Sec. 10-6. - Cutting trees; trespass on public lots.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut down any tree, or otherwise trespass on any public lot or square in the city.
(Code 1926, § 195)
Sec. 10-7. - Attaching signs, etc., on public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, nail or otherwise affix any paper, cardboard, tin, sign or any other thing upon any utility pole, post, or any other thing upon any street or sidewalk right-of-way within the city.
(Ord. of 10-3-60)
Cross reference— Sign permits, § 4-5, App. A, Art. IX, § D.
Sec. 10-8. - Attaching signs to trees.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tack or nail any paper, cardboard, tin or any other thing upon any shade tree within the city.
(Code 1926, § 198)
Sec. 10-9. - Quarreling, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of quarreling or otherwise acting in a disorderly manner.
(Code 1926, § 176)
State Law reference— Fighting, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-32.
Sec. 10-10. - Discharging firearm.
It shall not be lawful to shoot any gun, pistol or other firearms within the city except by permission of the mayor and mayor pro tem, or three members of the governing body.
(Code 1926, § 178)
Sec. 10-11. - Obscene language.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of using obscene language, publicly and loudly, in the hearing of others, in the city.
(Code 1926, § 179)
Sec. 10-12. - Lewdness.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of open lewdness or any notorious act of public indecency, tending to debauch the morals, within the city.
(Code 1926, § 180)
State Law reference— Public indecency, O.C.G.A. § 16-6-8.
Sec. 10-13. - Contempt of council.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of contemptuous or disorderly conduct towards the governing body, or in its presence.
(Code 1926, § 188)
Sec. 10-14. - Throwing objects.
It shall be unlawful for any person to pitch, throw, or cast any stone or missile at or upon any house, window, lamp, electric light or telephone pole or fixture, or shade tree.
(Code 1926, § 189)
Sec. 10-15. - Business establishments engaged in retail sale of alcoholic beverages; minors.
(a)
For purposes of this section, the term "business establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other business entity which derives from its retail sale of alcoholic beverages at least 75 percent of its total annual gross income.
(b)
No one under the age of 21 years shall enter or remain on the premises of any business establishment engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages or by the drink, nor shall any business establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of alcoholic beverages in unbroken packages or by the drink, permit anyone under the age of 21 years to enter into or remain on its business premises.
(Ord. of 3-6-95)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted Mar. 6, 1995, did not specifically amend this Code; hence, codification of substantive provisions of said ordinance as § 10-15 herein was at the editor's discretion.
Sec. 10-16. - Loitering or prowling.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for the law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this Code section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this ordinance if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trail that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(Ord. of 12-10-2001, § 1; Ord. of 12-4-2017(1) , § 2)
Sec. 10-17. - Penalties for violation.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth therein, the penalty for the violation of all ordinances of the city shall be as follows: Any person violating any provision of the Code of Ordinances of the city shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 12-10-2001, § 2)
Sec. 10-18. - Garage, yard and carport sales within the city.
(a)
Definitions. This section shall govern all sales usually defined as garage, yard or carport sales. For the purposes of this section, any sale of household goods conducted at a residential dwelling not considered a commercial establishment shall fall under the jurisdiction of this section.
(b)
Applications for permit. Every person desiring to conduct a garage, carport or yard sale within the city limits is required to procure a permit under the provisions of this section. Applications for permit shall be made to the city building inspector at least seven days before said sale shall be scheduled. The application shall conform to the requirements of this section and can be procured from the city building inspector's office.
(c)
Contents for application of permit. Each application shall contain the following information:
(1)
Name and address of the individual applying for the permit and at whose address said sale shall be held.
(2)
Date said sale shall be conducted.
(3)
Signature/stamp of the building inspector approving the application.
(d)
Fees. Upon issuance of the permit a fee of $15.00 shall be paid to the city building inspector to partially cover administrative costs involved in issuance and policing of this permit program.
(e)
General requirements.
(1)
After procurement of the necessary permit, said permit shall be displayed in a prominent location at the site of the sale easily observed from the public roadway at the address of the sale.
(2)
Said permit shall only be issued for a continuous 72-hour period during any six-month period. No subsequent permit shall be issued to the place or person sooner than six months from the sale time.
(3)
Sufficient parking area shall be available to allow access to sale without interfering with the flow of traffic.
(4)
Household goods offered for sale shall not be placed on display any closer to a public roadway than setback requirements of the zoning district in which the sale is conducted.
(5)
Only one sign no larger than four square feet shall be displayed at the location of such sale which shall be set back from the roadway at least ten feet. In addition, only two directional signs no larger than two square feet shall be allowed for the purpose of directing traffic to the sale location.
(6)
At the conclusion of the sale all signs shall be taken down by the individual whose name appears on the permit.
(Ord. of 7-7-1997, §§ 1—5)
Secs. 10-19—10-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RULES REGARDING CHATSWORTH CITY PARK

Sec. 10-36. - Rules concerning park.
(a)
Park hours:
(1)
The Chatsworth City Park, consisting of the city block located at the northeast intersection of Second Avenue and Peachtree Street shall be closed to the public each evening from 11:00 p.m. until 5:00 a.m. the following day.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any person to be present at the Chatsworth City Park during the hours of 11:01 p.m. until 4:59 a.m. the following day.
(b)
Alcoholic beverages are prohibited in the park.
(c)
No organized games or team sports are allowed inside the park.
(d)
Bicycles, skate boards, roller blades and roller skates are prohibited in the park.
(e)
Swimming or wading in the fountain is prohibited.
(f)
All dogs must have immunization tags on collars and must be on a leash and must be under the complete control of the owner at all times.
(Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 1; Ord. of 9-9-2002, §§ I, II)
Sec. 10-37. - Preserving natural beauty of park.
(a)
All trash or litter is to be placed in designated containers.
(b)
Plants, trees and all other landscape is not to be defaced, destroyed or removed.
(c)
It is unlawful to offer items for sale in the park.
(Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 2)
Sec. 10-38. - Provisions for violations.
Any person who violates any subsection of this ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as follows:
(1)
Upon first offense:
a.
By a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $100.00, or
b.
By having to perform a certain number of hours of designated community service not to exceed 40 hours; or
c.
By both subsections (a) and (b) under this first offense;
(2)
Upon second offense:
a.
By a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00; or
b.
By having to perform a certain number of hours of community service not to exceed 100 hours; or
c.
By both subsections (a) and (b) under this second offense.
d.
Enforcement of this article may be accomplished by the city in any manner authorized by law.
(3)
Pursuant to the provisions contained in O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(b), the maximum punishment for violation of this article shall not exceed a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for ten days, or both.
(Ord. of 9-11-2000, § 3; Ord. of 9-9-2002, § III)
Secs. 10-39—10-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FALSE ALARMS

Sec. 10-51. - Definitions.
Automatic dialing device means any device connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a pre-recorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of the alarm system to a predetermined location.
Automatic response alarms systems means a device intended to detect and signal intrusion in a closed premise or upon a premise or to signal a robbery, in which signal and alarm system business, monitoring station or other entity.
False alarm means the activation of a burglary and/or robbery alarm at a time when no burglary or robbery is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Independent alarm system means a device intended to detect and signal intrusion into a closed premise or a robbery, in which does not automatically signal an alarm system business, monitoring station or other entity.
Multiple alarm sites means more than one alarm system on the premise.
Response means the dispatch of the Chatsworth Police Department or members of the Chatsworth Fire Department, either paid or volunteer, to the premise where an alarm system has been activated indicating a burglary and/or robbery in progress on those premises.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002, § 1)
Sec. 10-52. - Automatic dialers: automatic response alarm systems.
It shall be unlawful to key automatic dialer burglar alarms or robbery alarms, or any automatic response alarm system (burglary or robbery) to any Chatsworth Police Department telephone number, including 911, or location. Such alarm shall only be keyed to a private answering service who can then notify the Chatsworth Police Department or 911.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002, § 2)
Sec. 10-53. - False alarms.
Fees for response. Per Chatsworth Police Department's response to any false alarm of any automatic alarm response system or independent alarm system, the Chatsworth Police Chief or his lawful officers shall charge and collect from the person, business or legal entity, using or maintaining the automatic response alarm system or independent alarm system, fees as follows:
(1)
For a first or second response to a premises at which no other false alarm has occurred within a calendar year, no fee shall be charged.
(2)
For a third response to a false alarm within a calendar year, no fees shall be charged, but notice shall be given to the person or business using or maintaining the alarm system of the false alarms and the requirements of this article, including the fee requirement for any subsequent response to a false alarm response by the Chatsworth Police Department within the calendar year.
(3)
Upon a fourth response to a false alarm at the premises within a calendar year, a fee of $50.00 shall be charged to the person occupying the premises.
(4)
Upon a fifth response to a false alarm within the calendar year, a fee of $75.00 shall be charged; and for all succeeding responses within the calendar year a fee of $100.00 shall be charged per response.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002, § 3)
Sec. 10-54. - Automatic cutoff system.
All audible alarms, sirens, bells, or horns shall have an automatic cutoff so that the alarm will not operate for more than 30 minutes after activation.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002, § 4)
Sec. 10-55. - Penalties.
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this article shall be fined as provided by section 10-53 above by the Chatsworth Municipal Court of the City of Chatsworth, Georgia for each such offense. No fine or penalty shall be assessed for acts of God, nature or beyond control as determined in the sole discretion of the Chatsworth Police Officer responding to the alarm.
(Ord. of 9-9-2002, § 5)
Secs. 10-56—10-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TELEGRAPH OR TELEPHONE COMPANY

Sec. 10-61. - Due compensation for telephone companies with end user retail customers within the city.
(a)
The City of Chatsworth hereby requires due compensation of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues, as defined in paragraphs (8) and (9) of subsection (b) of Section 46-5-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated; provided, however, that any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues pursuant to an existing franchise agreement shall continue to pay in accordance with the agreement until the expiration of the franchise agreement or December 31, 2012, whichever occurs first, and any company which pays in excess of three percent of actual recurring local service revenues in accordance with an occupational license tax arrangement shall continue to pay in accordance with such payment schedule until December 31, 2012.
(b)
Regarding any telephone company that does not have retail, end user customers located within the city's municipal boundaries, the payment by such company to a municipal authority in accordance with the rates set by regulations promulgated by the department of transportation for the use of its rights of way shall be considered the payment of due compensation.
( Ord. of 7-6-09(1), § 1 )
