Chapter 12 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— For zoning procedures law, see O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.

Sec. 12-1. - Municipal planning commission—Created; membership; organization.
There is created a municipal planning commission, with powers as authorized by law. This commission shall be known as the City of Chatsworth Planning Commission and it shall consist of five members who are citizens of this city. The commission members shall serve terms varying from one to five years when first organized, and as terms expire the appointments shall be for five-year periods. All appointments to the commission, compensation to members, adoption into law of the recommendations of the commission shall be made by the governing body as authorized by law.
(Ord. of 6-2-58)
Sec. 12-2. - Same—Duties.
During the first year of operation, the commission shall have studied the basic problems of land use, the problems of existing thoroughfares and traffic congestion, of existing community facilities and public improvements, shall have made recommendations concerning the adoption of subdivision regulations, and shall have made recommendations concerning a master plan, and the adoption and protection thereof. It shall have such duties as provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. of 6-2-58)
Sec. 12-3. - Joint planning commission—Established.
The city hereby establishes the Chatsworth-Murray County Joint Planning Commission.
(Ord. of 5-20-74)
Sec. 12-4. - Same—Membership.
The joint planning commission shall consist of nine members; four members shall be residents of this city appointed by the governing body of the city; and one member shall be a resident of the City of Eton, appointed by the governing body of that city; and four members shall be residents of the county appointed by the governing body of the county. The terms of the members shall be for four years, except that the initial members appointed by the city shall have served for terms ending December 31, 1974; December 31, 1975; December 31, 1976; and December 31, 1977, respectively; their successors thereafter to serve for full four-year terms. Any vacancy in membership appointed by the city shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing body of the city, which shall also have the authority to remove any city-appointed member for cause, on written charges, after a public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with their official duties.
(Ord. of 5-20-74, § 1)
Sec. 12-5. - Same—Organization, rules, staff; finances.
The joint planning commission shall elect its chairman from among its members. The term of chairman shall be one year with eligibility for reelection. The joint planning commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or employee of either municipality or the county. The planning commission shall make its own rules of procedure and determine its time of meeting. All meetings of the joint planning commission at which official action is taken shall be open to the public and all records of the joint planning commission shall be a public record. The planning commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with the state planning agency and city planners and other consultants for such services as it may require. The expenditures of the joint planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the governing body of the cities and county.
(Ord. of 5-20-74, § 2)
Sec. 12-6. - Same—Powers and duties.
When the joint planning commission shall have organized and selected its officers, and shall have adopted its rule of procedure, then it shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2.
(Ord. of 5-20-74, § 3)
Sec. 12-7. - Area planning commission—Created and established.
In order to guide and accomplish a coordinated and harmonious development of the municipality and the northwest Georgia area which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development, that the Coosa Valley Area Planning and Development Commission, hereinafter referred to as the area planning commission, is hereby created and established as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2.
(Ord. of 12-29-60)
Sec. 12-8. - Same—Membership.
The area planning commission shall consist of two members from each of the counties participating in the area planning commission. Of the members from each county, one shall be appointed by the governing body of the municipality wherein the county seat is located and the other member shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county. The term of office for all members shall be five years, except that the initial appointment by the governing body of this city shall be for a term of four years. Any vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing body making the appointment which has become vacant. The appointing authority shall also have the power to remove any member it may appoint for cause, or written charges, after public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. of 12-29-60, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 12-9. - Same—Organization; rules; staff; finances.
The area planning commission shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from among its appointive members. The term of office of the chairman and vice chairman shall be for one year or until reelected or their successors are elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an employee of the commission. The commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman and at such other time as the chairman or board may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, or transactions, findings, and determinations, which record shall be a public record. The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work. In the performance of its duties, the commission may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, or local public or semipublic agencies or private individuals or corporations, may spend such funds, and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. It may make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. The expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts to the commission and contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the participating governing authorities.
(Ord. of 12-29-60, § 3)
Sec. 12-10. - Same—Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the entire northwest Georgia area and each political subdivision therein. In general, the commission shall have such powers and duties and responsibilities as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2.
(Ord. of 12-29-60, § 4)
