ARTICLE V. - WETLANDS PROTECTION

Sec. 8-219. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Regulated activity means any activity which will, or which may reasonably be expected to, result in the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States excepting those activities exempted in Section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophilic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the jurisdiction of the county, as indicated on the wetlands map; provided, however, that the wetlands map does not necessarily represent the boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the county and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this article does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
Wetlands map means the current U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetlands Inventory maps for Liberty County, Georgia.
(Code 1987, § 5-100; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 8-220. - U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination.
An U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required prior to the issuance of a permit for any regulated activity within the wetland protection district. If the corps determines that wetlands are present and that a Section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, no permit for the regulated activity will be issued until the corps has issued the Section 404 permit or letter of permission. If the corps determines that there are no wetlands present on the proposed development site, the county may proceed with its normal permitting procedures.
(Code 1987, § 5-101; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Secs. 8-221—8-248. - Reserved.
