Chapter 26 - NUISANCES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Administrative fee.
The administrative fee due for a lien created as a result of the county's removal of trash, junk or rubbish from private property, or the county's remedying unsanitary or unsafe conditions constituting a general nuisance, shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
Sec. 26-2. - Penalties.
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance or resolution shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the county as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1987, § 1-8)
Secs. 26-3—26-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABANDONED VEHICLES

Sec. 26-23. - Definitions.
(a)
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Property means any real property within the county which is not a street or highway.
Street or highway means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Vehicle means a machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, tread, runners, or slides and which transports persons or property or pulls machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and wagons.
(b)
The definitions set forth in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1 ("Abandoned Motor Vehicle—Definitions") shall be effective as definitions of the words, terms and phrases used in this article. All words, terms and phrases used herein, other than those specifically defined elsewhere in this article, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1, and shall have the same scope and effect that the same words, terms and phrases have where used in O.C.G.A. § 40-11-1.
(Code 1987, § 15-40; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 1)
Sec. 26-24. - Abandonment of vehicles prohibited.
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the county and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the county for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Code 1987, § 15-41; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 2)
Sec. 26-25. - Leaving of wrecked, non-operating vehicle on street.
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the county.
(Code 1987, § 15-42; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 3)
Sec. 26-26. - Allowing wrecked or discarded vehicles to remain.
No person in charge or control of any property within the county, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 72 hours; and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the county for a longer time than 72 hours; except that this section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprises; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the county.
(Code 1987, § 15-43; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 4)
Sec. 26-27. - Impounding.
The sheriff or any member of the sheriff's department designated by the sheriff is hereby authorized to remove or have removed, according to the provisions under state law, any vehicle left at any place within the county which reasonably appears to be in violation of this article or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with state law.
(Code 1987, § 15-44; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 5)
Sec. 26-28. - Sale—When required.
Abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or discarded vehicles which remain uncalled for after removal and storage shall be sold at public outcry as hereinafter provided for under state law.
(Code 1987, § 15-45; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 8)
Sec. 26-29. - Same—Records and reports.
The sheriff shall submit to the board of commissioners a written report of each sale of abandoned property, including a description of the abandoned property sold corresponding to the advertisement, the date of removal from the streets or other public property and from private property, the date and time of the sale, the name and address of the purchaser, and the sale price. A copy of the advertisement shall be attached to such report. Each such report shall be read in the first meeting of the governing body held after the day of sale and shall thereafter be kept in a permanent file for such reports by the county.
(Code 1987, § 15-48; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 11)
Sec. 26-30. - Same—Purchase by county.
If the board of commissioners shall at any time desire to purchase for the county, for lawful county purposes, any abandoned vehicle exposed for sale as herein provided, it may authorize any officer or employee of the county other than the officer conducting the sale to bid for the county at such sale. Such authorization shall specify the vehicle to be bid for and the maximum amount which may be bid by such officer or employee.
(Code 1987, § 15-49; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 12)
Sec. 26-31. - Penalties.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in section 1-8. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Code 1987, § 15-50; Res. of 6-4-1974, § 6)
Secs. 26-32—26-50. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NOISE

Sec. 26-51. - General anti-noise regulation.
Subject to provisions of this article the creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the unincorporated area of the county is prohibited. Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and welfare is prohibited.
(Code 1987, § 12-50; Ord. of 12-7-1993, § 1)
Sec. 26-52. - Miscellaneous prohibited noises.
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in violation of this article; but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
(1)
Blowing horns. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of control, or if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, etc. The playing of any radio, phonograph, or any musical instrument or sound device, including but not limited to loudspeakers or other devices for reproduction or amplification of sound, either independently of or in connection with motion pictures, radio or television, in such a manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office or hospital, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
(3)
Yelling, shouting, hooting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in any hospital, dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
(4)
Use of vehicle. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar, or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such a manner as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
(5)
Blowing whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop-work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper county authorities.
(6)
Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal-combustion engine, motor vehicle, or boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(7)
Noises near schools, hospitals, churches, etc. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any hospital or adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or court, while in session.
(8)
Noises to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device emitting noise for the purpose of attracting attention, unless a permit for the use of such device shall have been obtained under the regulations hereinafter provided.
(9)
Loudspeaker or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for any purposes, unless a permit for the use of such device shall have been obtained under the regulations hereinafter provided.
(Code 1987, § 12-51; Ord. of 12-7-1993, § 2)
Sec. 26-53. - Exemptions.
(a)
The reasonable use of amplifiers, loudspeakers, drums, or other instruments or devices emitting noise for the purpose of any public address or for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale or display of merchandise shall be permitted providing a permit therefor is secured from the county administrator. An application for the use desired shall be submitted in writing to the county, which application shall set out the nature of the noise-making activity, the place or places where the activity is to be carried on, and the dates and hours during which the use is to be made. The county administrator shall act upon each application so submitted, and shall, before granting a permit, place such restrictions upon the use as to the extent, hours and location as to prevent undue annoyance to the public or any resident.
(b)
The county administrator may, in his discretion, authorize the issuance of certain types of permits by the county without the application being referred to the county administration; but in the case of any doubt, the county shall await action by the county administrator before issuance of a permit. It shall be unlawful to use any device or to create any undue noise in violation of the terms of any permit issued under this section.
(Code 1987, § 12-52; Ord. of 12-7-1993, § 3)
Sec. 26-54. - Penalties.
Violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $1,000.00 or imprisoned for not more than 60 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
(Code 1987, § 12-53; Ord. of 12-7-1993, § 4)
Sec. 26-55. - Jurisdiction.
The magistrate's court of the county shall have jurisdiction over violations of this article; and all procedures for enforcement of this article shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. Title 15, Chapter 10, Article 4 (O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.). Complaints of violations of any provisions of this article shall be brought before the magistrate's court on a citation issued by the chief deputy of the county or his designee, or the chief magistrate of the county, and shall be prosecuted through that court. Violations of this article will be tried upon citations either with or without a prosecuting attorney as determined by the chief deputy of the county or his designee, or the chief magistrate of the county. Service of citation shall be performed by the constable of the magistrate's court of the county. Citations shall meet all of the requirements as specified in the O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63, as amended.
(Code 1987, § 12-54; Ord. of 12-7-1993, § 5)
Secs. 26-56—26-83. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - REMOVAL OR REPAIR OF UNSAFE OR DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; municipal authority to require by ordinance the repair, closing, or demolition of unfit dwellings or other unfit structures intended for human habitation, O.C.G.A. § 36-61-11.

Sec. 26-84. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Parties in interest means persons in possession of the property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have interest or record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure located on said property, said persons to include, but are not limited to, executors, administrators, guardian and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the municipality, county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the county or municipality.
Public officer means the county administrator or his designee (e.g., building inspector, code enforcement officer, etc.) who shall exercise the powers prescribed by this article.
(Code 1987, § 5-84; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-85. - Application of article to unsafe or unsanitary conditions creating a public health hazard or general nuisance.
(a)
All of the provisions of this article, including those pertaining to method and procedure, shall also be applied to private property where an accumulation of trash, junk, filth and other unsanitary or unsafe conditions create a public health hazard or a general nuisance to those persons residing or travelling in the vicinity thereof except:
(1)
That portion of section 26-90 requiring the governing authority to order the public officer to effectuate the public officer's orders issued pursuant to this article with respect to any particular property; and
(2)
That portion of section 26-96 establishing an administrative fee.
(b)
As for the effectuation of orders issued by the public officer pursuant to this section, no such order shall be carried out without the written approval of the chairperson of the board of commissioners and the building and licensing official of the county. As for the administrative fee due for a lien created as a result of the county's removal of trash, junk or rubbish from private property, or the county's remedying unsanitary or unsafe conditions constituting a general nuisance, it shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(c)
A finding by any governmental health department, health officer or building inspector that any property is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that the property is in violation of this article.
(Code 1987, § 5-85; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-86. - Article cumulative.
This article shall be cumulative of other ordinances and Code provisions applicable to property and improvements in the county and shall not repeal other ordinances and Code provisions pertaining to similar subjects and procedures.
(Code 1987, § 5-86; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-87. - Inspection and notice of hearing.
Whenever a written request for inspection is filed with the county by a public authority, by at least five residents of the county or by the public officer charging that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit in its current commercial, industrial or business use or is vacant and dilapidated, or whenever it otherwise appears to the public officer that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use or is vacant or dilapidated, the public officer shall, if preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charge, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and any parties in interest of such dwelling, building, or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing shall be held before the public officer. The complaint shall state the conditions which exist and specify the violations of this article or any other provision of this Code, including, but not limited to, the building code, housing code and other provisions pertaining to the conditions of buildings, dwellings and structures, and shall contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer pursuant to section 26-89.
(Code 1987, § 5-87; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-88. - Right to enter and inspect.
(a)
The public officer and any person authorized to enforce this article shall be empowered to enter any property and structure at reasonable times to inspect the condition thereof and determine the fitness and condition of said structure pursuant of section 26-87. If such entry is refused, such official may obtain an order ex parte from a judge of the superior court of the county pursuant to an affidavit setting forth:
(1)
The name and address of the property owner and any party in interest, and the person refusing entry;
(2)
The date and time entry was attempted;
(3)
The reason why entry was not effected;
(4)
The means by which and by whom entry is proposed; and
(5)
The reason why entry and inspection are necessary.
(b)
The order shall specify a date and time for a hearing before the court to determine whether entry shall be permitted, unless the affidavit sets forth sufficient cause to justify immediate entry and inspection, whereupon such authority may then be granted. The order with a copy of the affidavit shall be served pursuant to the provisions applicable to service of subpoenas issued from the court or the provisions of section 26-97.
(Code 1987, § 5-88; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-89. - Hearing.
(a)
The hearing pursuant to section 26-88 will be held at a place within the county as designated in the complaint on a day and time certain which shall not be less than ten nor more than 30 days after the service of this notice. The owner and any party in interest known to the public officer shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint with the public officer and to appear in person or otherwise, to give testimony at the hearing at the place and time specified in the notice.
(b)
The public officer shall preside at the hearing. The person conducting the hearing shall have authority to administer oaths or affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive evidence at the hearing. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the hearing. The proceedings at the hearing shall be recorded or taken down or made by such other procedure as may be undertaken either in verbatim or summary form so as to be reasonably accurate.
(c)
The public officer shall be the supervisor and custodian of the records with respect to each property against which a complaint is issued and any hearing held. Such records shall be public records and made available to any party in interest and copies thereof provided upon the payment of such reasonable cost as may be incurred in duplicating or otherwise providing them. The records shall be preserved for not less than four years after the proceedings and action, if any, regarding the property are concluded.
(Code 1987, § 5-89; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-90. - Orders for corrective action.
(a)
If, after the hearing, the public officer determines that the dwelling, building or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use or is vacant and dilapidated, the public officer shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the property owner an order which shall provide:
(1)
A determination that the dwelling, building or structure can be repaired, improved or altered either at a cost of one-half or less of the value of the dwelling, building or structure exclusive of foundation and lot after the improvements have been made, or at a cost of more than one-half of the value of such structure exclusive of the foundation and lot after improvements have been made. If the cost to repair, improve or alter such structure is more than one-half of the value of such structure exclusive of foundation and lot after the improvements have been made, the order may find that such structure be vacated and removed or demolished within a specified time frame. If the dwelling, building or structure can be repaired, altered, or improved at a cost that is less than one-half of the value of such structure or structures exclusive of foundation and lot after improvements have been made, the order may find either that the structure be rendered fit for human habitation or current commercial, industrial or business use within a specified time or shall be vacated and closed and secured against entry.
(2)
An enumeration of conditions which render the dwelling, building or structure unfit for human habitation or other uses and an enumeration of remedial action necessary to correct each of the conditions.
(3)
That if the owner and/or parties in interest elect to undertake the necessary remedial action, the public officer shall establish:
a.
A specific period of time, reasonably established in relationship to the remedial action, during which such action must be commenced, including, if necessary, separate commencement dates as to separate defects or work;
b.
A specific period of time after the required commencement date of such remedial action, reasonably established in relationship to the necessary undertakings, within which such action shall be completed, including, if necessary, separate reasonable deadlines as to separate defects or work.
(4)
That if the owner and/or the parties in interest do not notify the public officer of the intent to comply within 15 days of service of publication of the order for corrective action for a building, dwelling or structure which can be repaired at one-half or less of its value, the public officer shall subsequently commence and complete the vacating and closing of the dwelling, building or structure; or in case of a building or dwelling which cannot be repaired at one-half or less of the value, to commence and complete the vacating and removal or demolition of the building, dwelling or structure.
(5)
A statement that failure to comply with the order within the required time set forth in this section is in violation of this article and shall subject the parties and property to the remedies of this article.
(b)
Where a condition exists regarding any property which constitutes an immediate danger to persons or adjacent property, the public officer may shorten the time periods specified in this section.
(c)
Prior to the effectuation of orders issued by the public officer pursuant to this section, the public officer shall submit such order to the governing authority of the county, and such order shall not be carried out without the written approval of the same.
(Code 1987, § 5-90; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-91. - Placarding.
(a)
When the owner and/or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure, and the public officer causes such dwelling, building or structure and premises to be vacated and closed, the public officer shall cause to be posted, on the main entrance of any dwelling or building or structure to be closed, a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or other fuse. The use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or other use is prohibited and unlawful."
(b)
The placard shall bear the date posted, street number of the building involved, and the signature of the public officer. It shall thereafter be unlawful for such placard to be mutilated or removed or for such building to be occupied until the required corrective action is taken.
(Code 1987, § 5-91; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-92. - Filing of complaints and orders in real estate records.
A copy of such complaint or orders shall also be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county with lis pendens notices, and such filing of the complaint or orders shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaint or orders or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the county.
(Code 1987, § 5-92; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-93. - Failure to comply with order.
Should the owner and/or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to remove or demolish or vacate a dwelling, building or structure, the public officer shall cause such dwelling, building or structure to be vacated, demolished, removed or repaired; provided, however, that such duty shall not be exercised until the county, by resolution containing an appropriate legal description, has ordered the public officer to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to the particular property.
(Code 1987, § 5-93; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-94. - Demolition.
No person shall begin demolition until a county demolition permit for demolition has been obtained and all utilities have been cut off and capped at the street. The person who has secured the permit shall remove from the property all debris, trash, litter, rubbish and foundation exposed above the ground level; fill any excavation or other depressions to existing grade with clean dirt containing no more than 25 percent stone or masonry; and adequately slope and drain all filled areas.
(Code 1987, § 5-94; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-95. - Lien on property.
The cost of vacating, removing, closing, repairing, demolition, and/or the taking of any other action authorized hereunder by the county shall be a lien for such amount against the real property upon which the cost was incurred. The lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs of action against the property by the county and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the costs by the public officer in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court on a lien docket maintained by the Clerk of Superior Court for such purposes. If the dwelling or building is demolished under a contract which results in payment by a contractor to the county, the proceeds of such sale shall be credited against the cost of the demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited by the public officer in the superior court of the county and shall be secured and disbursed in such manner as may be ordered by such court.
(Code 1987, § 5-95; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-96. - Collection of amount due on lien.
The county shall enforce the collection of any amount due on a lien arising under this article in the following manner:
(1)
Amount. The amount of the lien shall be established as follows: There shall be an administrative fee assessed against all liened properties together with the costs of serving all notices required by this article. The amount of the lien shall also include the cost of vacating, removal, closing, repairing, or demolition which shall be the cost paid or incurred by the county in effecting action against any property. The administrative fee shall be in an amount as established by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(2)
Notice of lien. The owner and/or parties in interest, if they possess a recorded interest in the property, shall be served with a copy of the lien and shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county, within 30 days after the perfection of such lien, a sum of money not less than 25 percent of the total due on such lien, and by further paying the remaining balance due, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum. In three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as prescribed in this section.
(3)
Transfer of property. Should such property be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner and/or parties in interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year payment period, the entire balance due on such lien, with earned interest, shall be due and payable to the county.
(4)
Nonsatisfaction. Should the amount due on the lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after it is due, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien in the same manner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable statutes. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon the property, all as provided by O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40.
(Code 1987, § 5-96; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
Sec. 26-97. - Service of notices and orders.
Service of complaints shall be effected as provided in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12.
(1)
Costs. The costs of service pursuant to this section shall be included in the sums otherwise due under this article.
(2)
Service. Such person as designated by the county who is of legal age may be authorized to perform the service of all documents pursuant to this article in the manner usually performed by sheriffs, provided they follow the procedures established by statute for those officials, and a fee may be assessed against the property so long as it does not exceed the fee currently imposed by the sheriff of the county for that activity. Any notice pursuant to section 26-88, any order issued pursuant to section 26-90, or any other post-hearing action effecting the property may be served upon the owner and parties in interest by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address specified in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12, as applicable, and to the address of the property if it is occupied on the date of inspection, care or "occupant." If any party has specified to the public officer prior to or at the hearing an address for notice, that address shall be used for notices.
(Code 1987, § 5-97; Ord. No. 2012-002, 3-15-2012)
