DIVISION 14. - I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 22-246. - Statement of purpose.
The intent of this district is to permit certain industries which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in planned areas of the city, so that such uses may be integrated with land use, such as commercial and residential areas. It is further intended that these light industrial uses will act as a transition between heavier industrial uses and non-industrial uses.
(Ord. No. 548, § 17.01, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-247. - Permitted uses.
(a)
Any use permitted in commercial zone districts, except loft dwellings.
(b)
Bakeries, baking plant, wholesalers, etc.
(c)
Bottling or packaging of cleaning compounds, polishes, seeds, etc.
(d)
Building equipment, building materials, lumber, sand, gravel yards, and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating equipment of public agencies, or public utilities, or materials or equipment of similar nature.
(e)
Carpet manufacturing.
(f)
Carpenter and cabinet-making shops.
(g)
Cold storage plants.
(h)
Dental, surgical and optical goods manufacturing.
(i)
Electronic manufacturing and assembly parts.
(j)
Electric motors and generators manufacturing.
(k)
Research and testing laboratories.
(l)
Pharmaceutical products manufacturing.
(m)
Printing, engraving and bookbinding shops.
(n)
Soft drink bottling establishments.
(o)
Tool, die, gauge and machine shops.
(p)
Processed agricultural products other than meat, poultry or animal products.
(q)
Textiles, wearing apparel manufacturing.
(r)
Natural gas and petroleum products storage.
(s)
Plastic product manufacturing, but not including the processing of the raw materials.
(t)
Warehouse, storage and transfer and electric and gas service buildings and yards and public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings and substations, gas regulator stations.
(u)
Electrical, glazing, heating, painting, paper hanging, plumbing, roofing or ventilation contractors' establishments including outside storage yards.
(v)
Moving or storage offices and warehouse.
(w)
Publicly owned buildings, structures or public utility buildings and service yards including storage yards.
(x)
Caretaker or employee residence—As limited and defined in section 22-5.
(y)
All radio, cellular phone, or similar transmission/receiving antennas and/or towers.
(Ord. No. 548, § 17.02, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-248. - Conditional uses.
Other uses similar to the above and compatible with the particular neighborhood and environment as interpreted by the planning commission and approved by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. No. 548, § 17.03, 1-8-01)
Sec. 22-249. - Area, height and placement requirements.
(In accordance with the Schedule of Regulations, section 22-321). *Within any I-1 light industrial zoning district, the following special regulations will apply to all permitted uses:
(1)
All open portions of any lot shall be suitably graded and, except when paved or similarly improved, they shall as a minimum, be seeded and maintained in grass. Preferably, such open spaces may be further landscaped with trees, shrubs and ground cover.
(2)
All service drives and access roads and parking areas shall be paved.
(3)
All storage operations shall be fully enclosed.
(4)
Provisions shall be made for the adequate lighting of all parking areas and service drives.
(5)
Satisfactory provisions shall be made for storm drainage, sanitary sewerage and water supply. As much as possible, all power and telephone lines shall be provided for by easements along rear and side lot lines.
(Ord. No. 548, § 17.04, 1-8-01)
Secs. 22-250—22-260. - Reserved.
