ARTICLE X. - MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

Sec. 14-160. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
(1)
Mobile food vehicle shall mean a motorized wheeled vehicle or a towed wheeled vehicle designed and equipped to serve food.
(2)
Mobile food vendor shall mean the operator of a mobile food vehicle.
(3)
Food retailer shall mean a food establishment that sells to consumer customers food or food products intended for preparation or consumption off of the premises.
(Ord. No. 840, ยง 1, 5-23-22)
Sec. 14-161. - Regulation and licensing of mobile food vendors.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or offer for sale, food of any type from a mobile food vehicle without a license first having been granted by the city, except for such activities conducted in connection with city-sponsored events.
(b)
An application for a permit hereunder shall be submitted to the city clerk or his/her designee setting forth all information required and in compliance with this article. The city clerk or his/her designee shall develop a form of application for the purpose of compliance with this article. The application shall be accompanied by an executed indemnity agreement indemnifying and releasing the city, its agents, employees and elected officials from any and all liability against any and all claims, actions and suits of any type whatsoever arising in connection with the activities of the mobile food vendor pursuant to the permit issued hereunder.
(c)
The following information shall be provided with each application for a mobile food vehicle permit, along with an executed release and indemnification agreement provided by the city:
(1)
Name of the mobile food vendor;
(2)
Make, model and license plat number of the mobile food vehicle;
(3)
Owner's contact information;
(4)
Operator's contact information;
(5)
Copy of approved permit from the Grady County Health Department;
(6)
List of operating locations and times including map detailing the position of the vehicle, and current zoning in the designated locations. Designated locations should only be within the zoned commercial or industrial;
(7)
Signature(s) from property owners indicating consent for the use of their property;
(8)
Federal Tax Identification Number and Georgia Sales Tax Number and
(9)
Signature of applicant indicating agreement to the listed requirements.
(d)
Mobile food vendors shall not operate within the City of Cairo unless licensed and taxed in accordance with article I of this chapter and shall have paid to the City of Cairo a license and tax in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per annum or for any portion of a year.
(e)
No mobile food vendor shall conduct business or operate in a public right-of-way or on public property including, but not limited to, public parks or public recreation grounds of the city without a special event permit. Mobile food vehicles cannot be parked in the public right-of-way, on sidewalks, grass, or areas not intended for parking vehicles.
(f)
A mobile food vehicle may operate on private property subject to the prior written consent of the land owner and according to the requirements of this article. A mobile food vehicle shall not be allowed to park overnight at the site of its operation unless the vendor owns the property or has entered into a lease agreement with the land owner that extends six (6) months or longer.
(g)
Notwithstanding anything in this article to the contrary, a mobile food vendor shall maintain a one million dollar ($1,000,000.00) liability insurance policy. Proof of current liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Georgia, protecting the mobile food vendor, the public and the city from all claims for damage to property and bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operation under or in connection with the permit, shall be provided to the City of Cairo as part of its permit application.
(h)
No motor food vehicle shall make sounds or announcements to call attention to the mobile food vehicle while traveling on the public right-of-way or when stationary.
(i)
Mobile food truck operators shall be permitted to post one (1) sign of an informational nature regarding the food and drink being sold.
(j)
The license under which the mobile food service is operating must be firmly attached and visible on the mobile food vehicle at all times.
(k)
Any driver of a mobile food vehicle must possess a valid Georgia driver's license.
(l)
The mobile food vendor shall have available on site restroom facilities for his/her employees.
(Ord. No. 840, ยง 1, 5-23-22)
Sec. 14-162. - Location, and maintenance, and operation of a mobile food vehicle.
(a)
Mobile food vehicles shall not be located within thirty (30) feet of any street intersection or pedestrian crosswalk or within ten (10) feet of any driveway.
(b)
Mobile food vehicles shall not be located within two hundred (200) feet of an existing restaurant or food retailer except if the restaurant is owned by or operated by the owner/operator of the mobile food vehicle.
(c)
Mobile food vehicles shall not offer goods, food, products or services between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) to 8:00 a.m.
(d)
No mobile food vehicle shall be left unattended or stored in an open vending site when vending is not taking place or during restricted hours of operation.
(e)
All mobile food vehicles shall be equipped with two (2) rear vision mirrors, firmly attached to the motor vehicle, and located to permit the driver to view both sides of the vehicle and the highway to the rear of the vehicle.
(f)
All mobile food vendors shall comply with all state, federal and local health and safety regulations and requirements and shall obtain and maintain any and all licenses required by any other health organization or governmental organization having jurisdiction over this matter.
(g)
A mobile food vendor may only sell food and non-alcoholic beverage items.
(h)
Mobile food vendors shall only be located in areas zoned commercial or industrial.
(i)
No mobile food vendor shall operate a drive-through or drive-by sales location.
(j)
All mobile food truck vendors shall maintain the area of operation clearing all trash and debris that may be related to the conduct of the business.
(Ord. No. 840, ยง 1, 5-23-22)
