Chapter 18 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS

Sec. 18-1. - Installation of pipes, etc.
(a)
The city manager and any other officer or agent acting for the city shall not engage in the installation, construction, repair, renewal, removal or relocation of pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, poles, towers or other equipment, appliances or other utility in, on, along, over or under any street right-of-way, other than numbered state routes, the construction or improvement of which had been undertaken, agreed to be undertaken, or had been completed by the state highway department pursuant to its authority, without due compliance with the regulations of the state highway department known as PPM 30.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, including those franchised by the city, without first securing a permit from the city manager, to install, construct, maintain, repair, renew, remove or relocate any utility facility in, on, along, over or under any city street right-of-way other than numbered state routes where the construction of or improvement on any such street right-of-way had been undertaken, or agreed to be undertaken, or which had been completed by the state highway department pursuant to its authority.
(c)
The term "utility" as used in this section shall mean and include all publicly, privately, or cooperatively owned lines, facilities and systems for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil products, water, steam, waste, storm water not connected with highway drainage, and other similar services or commodities, including publicly owned fire and police signals and street lighting systems which directly or indirectly serve the public or any part thereof.
(Ord. No. 149, §§ 1—3, 9-8-69)
Sec. 18-2. - Excavations, encroachments, obstructions of physical activities.
(a)
No person shall excavate upon or construct any building, wall or extension of or place any obstruction of any kind on any public way of the city.
(b)
No person shall participate in any game or athletic activity or locate any equipment relating to any game or activity on any street or sidewalk of the city.
(Code 1965, § 28-2; Ord. No. 792, § 1, 6-12-17)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 792, § 1, adopted June 12, 2017, changed the title of § 18-2 from "Excavations; encroachments; obstructions" to read as herein set out.
State Law reference— Excavation code, § 6-180; plumber work permit, § 13-20.
Sec. 18-3. - Operation of certain vehicles.
No person shall operate a motorized or electric cart or vehicle including but not limited to golf carts, go-carts or all-terrain vehicles except upon the following conditions:
(1)
No such vehicle shall be operated upon the sidewalks of the city.
(2)
All such vehicles shall be operated on streets and roads only during daylight hours unless such vehicles shall comply with equipment regulations promulgated by the commissioner of public safety.
(3)
All vehicles shall be operated by persons having a valid motor vehicle operators license.
(4)
All such vehicles shall be operated in compliance with all traffic laws of the state and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 549, § 1, 3-12-01)
