Chapter 5 - ANIMALS AND FOWL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Dead Animal Disposal Act, OCGA § 4-5-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 5-1. - Bird sanctuary—Area designated.
The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(Code 1965, § 4-11)
Sec. 5-2. - Same—Shooting, molesting, etc.
No person shall trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl, or rob bird nests or wild fowl nests.
(Code 1965, § 4-12)
Sec. 5-3. - Same—Abatement of nuisances.
(a)
If starlings or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality as to constitute a nuisance or menace to health or property, in the opinion of the city health authorities, such health authorities shall meet with representatives of the Garden Club, after having given at least three (3) days actual notice of the time and place of such meeting to the representatives of the club.
(b)
If, as a result of such meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found to abate the nuisance, the birds may be destroyed, in such numbers and in such manner as is deemed advisable by the health authorities, under the supervision of the chief of police.
(Code 1965, § 4-13)
Sec. 5-4. - Livestock.
Livestock shall only be kept or confined in areas of the city zoned for agricultural use (AG). Livestock including horses, mules, ponies, goats, donkeys, cows, sheep, hogs or other livestock within the city shall be located at least two hundred fifty (250) feet, strict measure, from any residence, other than that of the people owning the livestock, or business house, such measurement to be made from the nearest livestock enclosure wall to the nearest corner of the wall of the residence or business house.
(Code 1965, §§ 4-31, 4-41, 4-52; Ord. No. 680, § 1, 4-28-08)
Sec. 5-5. - Area requirements, fencing.
Every enclosure for confining horses, mules, ponies, goats, donkeys, sheep, cows, hogs or other livestock shall be made secure by a fence of sufficient height to contain the animals and shall consist not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and shall contain no less than two thousand (2,000) square feet for each mule, horse, pony, goat, donkey, sheep, cow, hog or other livestock. Electric fences shall not be used.
(Code 1965, §§ 4-32, 4-42, 4-53; Ord. No. 680, § 1, 4-28-08)
Sec. 5-6. - Same—Sanitary condition.
All enclosures for confining horses, mules, ponies, goats, donkeys, cows, hogs or other livestock, shall be maintained at all times in a clean and sanitary condition, subject to approval by the appropriate authorities of the city and county.
(Code 1965, §§ 4-34, 4-44, 4-55; Ord. No. 680, § 1, 4-28-08)
State Law reference— Rabies control, OCGA § 31-19-1 et seq.
Sec. 5-7. - Same—Removing animals when conditions become unsanitary.
The officials of the city or county may order removal of all horses, mules, ponies, goats, donkeys, cows, hogs and other livestock, from any enclosure that becomes unsanitary upon ten (10) hours written notice to the owner or person in control thereof.
(Code 1965, §§ 4-35, 4-45, 4-56; Ord. No. 680, § 1, 4-28-08)
Sec. 5-8. - Livestock at large.
No person shall leave any horse, mule or other livestock unhitched or unconfined so as to permit the running at large thereof.
(Code 1965, § 4-51; Ord. No. 680, § 1, 4-28-08; Ord. No. 726, §§ 2, 3, 4-11-11)
Editor's note— Section 2 of Ord. No. 726, adopted April 11, 2011, repealed former § 5-8 which pertained to fencing of domestic fowl, and derived from Ord. No. 136, adopted Aug. 5, 1968, and Ord. No. 680, adopted April 28, 2008. Section 3 of said ordinance renumbered former § 5-9 as § 5-8.
State Law reference— Livestock at large, OCGA § 4-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 5-9. - Domestic fowl.
Subject to the restrictions set forth herein related to domestic animals, the mayor and council establishes the following regulations regarding domestic fowl. Domestic fowl shall not be subject to the maximum number of animals set forth within section 5-26 entitled "Keeping of animals."
The following domestic fowl are permitted within the City of Cairo: Chickens, ducks or geese. Roosters and pea fowl are excluded. Any residential lot shall be permitted to have no more than twenty-four (24) domestic fowl. Domestic fowl shall be confined by a substantial fence or pen. The perimeter or location of the fence or pen shall not be less than fifteen (15) feet from the property lines of all other residential lots or parcels occupied by adjacent property owners or their tenants or other persons in possession of the adjacent property.
(Ord. No. 726, § 4, 4-11-11)
Secs. 5-10, 5-11. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 278, adopted Aug. 13, 1984 provided for the repeal of §§ 4-19 and 4-20 of the 1965 Code, from which §§ 5-11 and 5-12 were derived. Said former sections pertained to bitches in heat running at large and the number of dogs permitted to be kept within the city. For current provisions relative to similar subject matter, see Art. II of this chapter.
Secs. 5-12—5-23. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ANIMAL CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 402, § 1, adopted June 10, 1991, amended Art. II in its entirety by deleting former Art. II, §§ 5-24—5-33, and adding a new Art. II, §§ 5-24—5-39, to read as herein set forth. Prior to amendment, Art. II, §§ 5-24—5-33, pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 359, § 1, adopted May 8, 1989.

Sec. 5-24. - Definitions.
For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively attributed to them in this section.
Abandoned animal. A domesticated animal which has been placed or found upon private or public property or roadways without the permission of the owner, tenant, or custodian of the property thereof, and left unattended and uncared for upon such property. An animal shall also be considered abandoned if it is retained upon the property of the owner or custodian without food and water for a period exceeding thirty-six (36) hours.
Animal control officer. Any person designated by the mayor and council to enforce the provisions of this article.
Animal control shelter. The facility designated by the mayor and council and/or any governmental unit with whom the city may have a contract for the detention or impoundment of animals.
City is the City of Cairo, a municipality and the entire area embraced in the corporate limits of the City of Cairo, Georgia.
Domesticated animal. An animal that is accustomed to live in and about the habitation of the population, including but not limited to fowl, cats, dogs, cows, horses, swine, sheep, and goats.
Guard dog. A dog which has been trained to attack persons or other animals independently or upon command or any dog, while not so trained, which reasonably is expected to perform as a guardian of the property upon which he or she is located.
Humane manner. Care of a domestic animal to include, but not be limited to, adequate heat, ventilation and sanitary shelter, or manner of restraint, wholesome food and water, consistent with the normal requirements and feeding habits of the animal's size, species, and breed.
Owner. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing, harboring or having the care or custody whether temporarily or permanently of a domesticated animal for a period of seventy-two (72) hours or more.
Restraint. An animal is "under restraint" within the meaning of this article if it is (1) controlled by a leash, (2) at "heel" or accompanying a competent person and obedient to that person's commands (under verbal control of owner or other person), (3) on or within a vehicle driven or parked on the streets, and (4) within the property limits of its owner.
Untagged animal. An animal is considered to be untagged if a valid license tag is not attached to a collar which is kept on the animal.
Vicious animals. Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or other domesticated or wild animals by virtue of attacking or biting a person or other animal without provocation shall be deemed a vicious animal. This definition shall not be deemed to include any activity which is permitted under the game laws of the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91; Ord. No. 653, § 1, 2-14-07)
Sec. 5-25. - Agreement with other governmental unit.
The mayor and council may enter into a contractual agreement with any governmental unit of Grady County to provide animal control services with the city. No such contract may be entered into until such governmental unit may have available those facilities that may be required under this article and such unit have in effect any animal control ordinance.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-26. - Keeping of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit an animal under his ownership, possession, control or care to be a nuisance as defined herein or under restraint as set forth within this article within the city. An animal shall be deemed to be a nuisance for the following reasons:
(1)
Lack of proof of current rabies vaccination.
(2)
Biting of person or animal.
(3)
Upon request by law enforcement agency or health department following investigation and determination that an animal is a nuisance or vicious as defined herein.
Except for a person in an occupation requiring or involving the keeping of animals located within areas permitted by City of Cairo zoning regulations, no person shall be allowed to keep more than four (4) animals at any location. Puppies and kittens less than ten (10) weeks shall be excluded.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-27. - Vicious animals.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, organization or department to possess or maintain within the city any animal that is vicious unless such animal is confined and secured upon the property of the owner or other person having custody of such animal in such a manner as would prohibit such animal from molesting, attacking or biting any person or other animal. Such animal shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the injury of young children, and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have a minimum dimension of five (5) feet by ten (10) feet and must have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two (2) feet. The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for the animal.
The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises facing out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a dangerous animal on the property. This sign should be visible and capable of being read from a public highway or thoroughfare within twenty (20) feet of its placement.
A vicious animal may be off the owner's premises only if it is muzzled and restrained by an approved lead or chain not exceeding three (3) feet in length and is under the control of an adult who is an able-bodied person. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or animal.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91; Ord. No. 653, § 2, 2-14-07)
Sec. 5-28. - Guard dogs.
It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or custodian of any residential property on which a guard dog or security dog is kept for security purposes to post a notice in a prominent and conspicuous location on such property. Such notice shall comprise the words "WARNING—GUARD DOG" and shall be in clearly distinguishable block letters upon a background of clearly contrasting color. Such letters shall not be less than one (1) inch in width and not less than five (5) inches in height. Further, the owner, tenant or custodian shall post the universal symbol for guard/dangerous dog in a prominent and conspicuous location on such property. If a guard dog is confined within a fenced area, such notice shall be conspicuously posted upon such fence at every entrance and exit of the fence.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-29. - Identification and inoculation.
Identification. Any person owning a vicious animal shall on or before April 1, 2007 and annually thereafter on or before April 1 of each year register that animal and provide a current color photograph of that animal with the office of clerk of the city and pay a registration fee in the amount of forty dollars ($40.00). At the time of registration, each owner of any dangerous animal within the limits of the City of Cairo shall provide to the clerk proof of liability insurance in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any acts of property damage or liability incurred by virtue of injury inflicted by such animal. Such insurance shall name the city as a coinsured solely for the purpose of notice of cancellation of the policy. Upon payment of the fee, the city clerk shall issue a current dangerous dog collar of an approved color for the purpose of identification and which color is to be worn by the dog at all times as proof of registration. If when due to the length of the dog's hair, the color is not visible, an approved colored lead or chain shall be used.
Inoculation. Every owner custodian of an animal that is four (4) months of age or older within the city shall have such animal vaccinated for rabies, if required by law. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or maintain any animal that does not have a current rabies inoculation and such animal shall at all times wear a securely attached collar about its neck or harness that shall have attached thereto a current rabies tag.
[Violation.] Any person failing to identify or inoculate the animal shall be guilty of violation of this section and be subject to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91; Ord. No. 653, § 4, 2-14-07)
Sec. 5-30. - Impoundment of animals.
Any animal that shall be a public nuisance or is not under restraint as defined herein or otherwise in violation of this article, whether or not the animal is on private or public property, shall be impounded by the designated animal control officers in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this article.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-31. - Redemption of impounded animal.
It shall be the duty of the designated animal control officers to notify the owner, if known or can be reasonably ascertained, of every animal impounded, by telephone or by mail. If no owner can be ascertained, the animal will be held for three (3) days before being destroyed unless other arrangements have been made. Following notification, the animal will be held for three (3) days. Thereafter, the animal may be destroyed or placed for adoption. Before release, the owner must provide proof of current rabies vaccination or pay for rabies vaccination before release. No animal will be released without proper rabies protection or necessary arrangements made for rabies inoculation.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-32. - Fees.
The fees to be paid before an animal is retrieved by owner shall be established by resolution of mayor and council. The following fees are established upon the adoption of this section:
EXPAND
Dogs Cats and
other animals
Impoundment fee $30.00 $15.00
Boarding fee per day beginningupon entrance $8.00 $4.00
Rabies vaccination: Two dollars ($2.00) above customary charge by veterinarians within Grady County, Georgia.
  (Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91; Ord. No. 653, § 3, 2-14-07)
Sec. 5-33. - Adoption.
The designated animal control officers are authorized to offer for adoption any animal that has been impounded and unclaimed by the owner or has been delivered to the division.
Any animal that is eligible for adoption may be offered after three (3) days from the date of impoundment if the owner should be unknown or within three (3) days of notice to the owner if the owner shall be known. The party desiring the animal shall pay the impoundment fee and one (1) day boarding fee as an adoption fee and the cost of rabies inoculation if the animal is not displaying a current rabies inoculation tag.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-34. - Disposition of unclaimed animals.
The designated animal control officers shall be authorized to dispose of any animal in as humane and painless a manner as possible, or to donate any animal to a public or nonprofit institution or agency, if such animal has remained unclaimed within the prescribed period of time or has not been adopted within three (3) days after impoundment or notice to the owner, or it has been injured and is suffering or in great pain and such animal does not display an identification tag or no determination of owner can be made from a reasonable investigation.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-35. - Disposition.
The disposal of any animal as provided in this section does not relieve the owner of any liability for any violation of this article. If the owner of any animal is known or ascertainable but for any valid reason cannot be reached within the prescribed three-day period, the designated animal control officers shall be authorized to hold the animal until such time as the owner can be reached.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-36. - Abuse of animals.
The animal control service shall be authorized to remove or cause to have removed to a safe location any animal that appears to be abused or suffering undue pain from abuse or neglect, as may be necessary to prevent further suffering. The owner or possessor of the animal shall be charged according to O.C.G.A. § 16-12-4.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-37. - Dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs.
(a)
The Dangerous Dog Control Law, as same shall be in effect within the State of Georgia, is incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
(b)
The person designated as animal control officer by Grady County or the City of Cairo is hereby designated the dog control officer as set forth in the Dangerous Dog Control Law.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-38. - Obstruction of officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, interfere, harass or otherwise obstruct the performance of any officer of the animal control division in the official performance of the duties as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
Sec. 5-39. - Violations.
Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be issued a citation for that violation to appear in the municipal court of the city. The citation may be issued by a police officer or by a magistrate upon receiving the sworn statement of a designated animal control officer based upon his own personal knowledge or upon a sworn written statement of another person who witnessed the violation, in which case the animal control officer and/or witness shall be subpoenaed to testify for the city in municipal court.
Any person convicted of a violation of this article shall be punished in accordance with section 1-8 of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 402, § 1, 6-10-91)
