ARTICLE IX. - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 9-1. - Administration and enforcement.
The provisions of this zoning code shall be administered by the city clerk or his delegated representative who is hereby given the authority to perform these functions. His duties shall include receiving any and all applications required by this appendix, scheduling hearings on applications and ensuring public notice is provided as required by this appendix and state law, except for applications for installation of mobile homes required by article II of this appendix (permits for which are submitted to the building inspector). The city council may, from time to time, authorize and appoint a public officer for the enforcement of the provisions of this appendix as may be necessary.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-1.1)
Sec. 9-2. - Planning commission.
The planning commission shall have the following powers:
(1)
To hear appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination, or refusal made by the building inspector or other administrative official in the carrying out or enforcement of any provisions of this zoning code.
(2)
To hear requests for the interpretation of the official zoning map and for any special questions upon which the planning commission is authorized to pass.
(3)
To hear and recommend action to the city council for variances from the terms of these regulations, and other actions related to the enforcement of these regulations.
(4)
To hear and recommend action by the city council for approval or denial of applications for conditional uses.
(5)
To hear and recommend action by the city council for approval or denial of an application for rezoning.
(6)
To perform all other duties as prescribed by this zoning code and state law.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-8.6)
Sec. 9-3. - Public hearing on proposed amendment.
Before an amendment to this zoning code is enacted, a public hearing on the amendment shall be held pursuant to providing public notice as defined herein.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10.4)
Sec. 9-4. - Appeal of interpretation of this zoning code.
The function of the city council under this zoning code shall not include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement which may arise, but the city council shall have only the responsibility for acting on proposals for amendment or variance to the provisions of this zoning code, after considering the recommendations of the planning commission.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-6, ¶ (b))
Sec. 9-5. - Fees.
The mayor and city council shall establish a schedule of fees for building permit applications, zoning change applications, zoning map amendment applications, and zoning variance applications. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the city clerk and may be altered and amended only by the mayor and city council.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-12)
Secs. 9-6—9-20. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ZONING CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS

Sec. 9-21. - Rezoning of lands.
(a)
The city council may from time to time amend, supplement or change the boundaries on the zoning districts established on the Comprehensive Zoning Map of Wrightsville, Georgia, or the requirements set forth in this appendix. Any proposed amendment, supplement or change shall first be submitted to the planning commission for its recommendations.
(b)
In amending the text of this zoning code or in amending the official zoning map, the procedure shall be as follows.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10)
Sec. 9-22. - Initiation of proposals for amendments.
Any person having an interest in property may initiate a rezoning proposal related to that property by filing an application provided by the city, along with additional relevant information as may be requested by the planning commission or staff and paying the required fee and costs to publish notice to the city clerk.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10.1)
Sec. 9-23. - Relation to the future land use plan.
All amendments to the zoning ordinance and the zoning map adopted pursuant to the zoning ordinance shall be based on and interpreted in relation to the future land use plan of the city. The application for tentative approval of an amendment shall include a written statement by the landowner setting forth the reasons why, in his opinion, the proposed amendment would be in the public interest and would be consistent with the future land use plan.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10.2)
Sec. 9-24. - Zoning review standards; planning commission study and report to city council.
(a)
All proposed amendments shall be submitted to the city clerk, who shall then refer the proposals for amendment to the planning commission. The planning commission shall have 30 days within which to submit a report and recommendation to the city council. Such recommendation shall be advisory only.
(b)
When zoning district boundary changes are proposed, the planning commission shall prepare an evaluation of each such proposed change considering each of the following factors:
(1)
The existing land uses and zoning classification of nearby property.
(2)
The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes.
(3)
The extent to which the property values of the subject property are diminished by the particular zoning restrictions.
(4)
The extent to which the destruction of property values of the subject property promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the public.
(5)
The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed upon the individual property owner.
(6)
Whether the subject property has a reasonable economic use as currently zoned.
(7)
The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in the context of land development in the area in the vicinity of the property.
(8)
Whether the proposed zoning will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
(9)
Whether adequate public school facilities, transportation facilities, streets and utilities exist or can be provided to serve the needs of additional residences likely to be constructed as a result of such change and the consequences of such change.
(10)
Whether the proposed change is in accord with any existing or proposed plans for providing public water and sanitary sewerage to the area.
(11)
The amount of vacant land currently classified for similar development in the vicinity and elsewhere in the city; and any special circumstances which may make a substantial part of such vacant land unavailable for development.
(12)
The recent rate at which land is being developed in the vicinity of the area proposed for a zoning change, and the character of such development.
(13)
How other areas designated for similar development will be or are likely to be affected if the proposed amendment is approved, and whether such designation for other areas should be modified also.
(14)
Whether there are other existing or changing conditions affecting the use and development of the property which give supporting grounds for either approval or disapproval of the zoning proposal.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10.3)
Sec. 9-25. - Posting of property.
When a proposed amendment affects the district classification of particular parcels of property, the clerk shall cause a sign to be placed conspicuously on the property, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing, which shall read as follows:
NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC
A petition for zoning amendment has been filed with the city council requesting that this property be changed from zone (insert present zone) to zone (insert zone requested). A public hearing will be held at (insert place) on (date) at (time). All those in favor or objecting to this petition should be present to voice their support or objection.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-10.5)
Sec. 9-26. - Newly annexed areas.
(a)
Within 60 days of annexation, the planning commission, after public hearing, shall recommend to the city council a zone classification for such newly annexed areas which will carry out the objectives of the future land use plan and this zoning code.
(b)
Newly annexed areas shall be considered to be zoned as the same classification as the adjoining property already in the city limits in the interim period between the date of annexation and city council action on assignment of permanent zoning classification.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-11)
Secs. 9-27—9-40. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - DETERMINATION OF UNCLASSIFIED/UNLISTED USES

Sec. 9-41. - Request for determination; procedure.
(a)
It is the intent of these regulations to allow any valid use of land or structures where it can be shown that such use is essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare and is in harmony with the objectives and elements of the city's development plan.
(b)
When such a use is not specified as a permitted use in any zoning district, the planning commission shall determine the appropriate zoning district in which such use may be located.
(c)
In the event an applicant wishes to use property for a use which is not specifically identified under the table of uses (articles V and VI of this appendix) or conditional uses (article VII of this appendix), and where such use is not specifically prohibited from the district, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
The clerk shall submit to the planning commission written request for a determination of the unclassified use.
(2)
The planning commission shall review the request as submitted and determine if the proposed use is of a similar character to the district in which it is proposed.
(3)
If the planning commission determines that the use is of a similar character and meets the intent of the uses permitted inherently within the district, then it shall instruct the city clerk to issue a permit.
(4)
In the event that the planning commission determines that the proposed use in the district is consistent with the character and intent of the conditional uses within the district, then the applicant shall apply for a conditional use permit in the normal manner.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-7)
Secs. 9-42—9-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - APPEALS

Sec. 9-56. - Appeals to the planning commission.
An appeal to the planning commission may be taken by any person, firm, or corporation aggrieved by any decision of the building inspector or clerk, as applicable, based in whole or in part on the provisions of this zoning code. Such appeal shall be filed in writing with the planning commission, and the building inspector or clerk, as applicable, shall transmit to the planning commission all documentation related to the case under appeal. The planning commission shall set a reasonable time for the public hearing of the appeal and the building inspector or clerk, as applicable, shall place a sign conspicuously on the property, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing, giving notice of the public hearing.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-8.7)
Sec. 9-57. - Variances.
After written denial of a building permit, a property owner may make application for a variance, using forms available. Upon receipt of an application, the planning commission shall schedule a public hearing. The building inspector shall erect a sign in a conspicuous place on the property in question giving public notice of the appeal at least 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing. The planning commission shall consider and decide whether to recommend to the city council approval or disapproval of all applications for variances within 30 days after such public hearing and in accordance with the standards provided below. Variances from the terms of this appendix may be recommended by the planning commission in such individual hardship cases of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the planning commission based on the following criteria:
(1)
A variance may be recommended and/or granted where special circumstances or conditions, fully described in the findings of the planning commission, do not apply generally in the district.
(2)
Variances may be recommended and/or granted to allow a use otherwise excluded from the particular district in which required.
(3)
For reasons fully set forth in the findings of the planning commission, the special circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of the provisions of this appendix would deprive the applicant of any reasonable use of his land. Mere loss in value shall not justify a variance. There must be a deprivation of beneficial use of land.
(4)
The recommendation and/or granting of any variance shall be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this appendix and shall not be injurious to the neighborhood, detrimental to the public welfare or in conflict with the city's comprehensive plan.
(5)
In reviewing an application for a variance, the burden of showing that the variance should be recommended and/or granted shall be upon the person applying thereof.
(6)
The planning commission, when recommending a variance, or the mayor and city council, when granting a variance, may establish reasonable conditions concerning the use of said property and may establish a time period for said variances.
(7)
Any variance thus recommended and/or authorized is to be stated in writing in the minutes of the planning commission and the mayor and city council with the reasons for which the departure was justified and the conditions under which granted set forth.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-8.8)
Sec. 9-58. - Action on appeals and variances.
In exercising its powers, the planning commission shall, in conformity with the provisions of this appendix, recommend to the city council that they may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-8.9)
Sec. 9-59. - Further appeals.
Any person jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the planning commission and the mayor and city council relating to the regulations set forth in the appendix may present to the superior court in and for the county, a petition setting forth that a decision of the planning commission or mayor and city council is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the date of the filing of the decision.
(Zoning Code 1997, § 14-8.10)
