Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal corporations' powers and limitations, Ga. Const. art. IX, § 2, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-30-1 et seq., 36-34-1 et seq.; home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Wrightsville City Code."
(Code 2007, § 1-101)
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19; home rule to legislate, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3(a).
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules and definitions shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the express provisions of a code section or manifest intent of the mayor and council:
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday from 12:00 midnight to 12:00 midnight shall be excluded.
Conjunctions. Where a provision involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, provided in appropriate cases the terms "and" and "or" are interchangeable:
(1)
The term "and" indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(2)
The term "or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
(3)
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the head of a department or other officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty, unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
Gender, singular and plural. Every word in any Code provision or ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. In all interpretations, the courts shall look diligently for the intention of the city council, keeping in view, at all times, the old law, the evil and the remedy. Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall otherwise expressly declare the officer with authority.
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable. The specific controls over the general.
Tense. The use of any verb in the past or present tense shall include the future, when applicable.
(Code 2007, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Advice and consent. Whenever the term "advice and consent" of the city council is used in this Code, it shall be construed to mean an affirmative vote of the majority of those present and voting.
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Wrightsville, Georgia.
City council, council. The terms "city council" and "the council" mean the city council (or board of aldermen) of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Johnson, Georgia.
Governing authority, governing body. The terms "governing authority" and "governing body" mean the mayor and city council of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia.
May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or both.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Municipality. The term "municipality" shall be construed as synonymous with the term "city," "town," or "municipal corporation."
Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the term "swear" or "sworn."
Officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies by title only, the reference refers to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the municipal governing body, whether or not codified herein or supplemented hereto.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property, except real property.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real property, personal property, and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. The term "public place" includes any place that the public is invited or permitted to go or congregate.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Statutory references. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the "Official Code of Georgia Annotated," as now or hereafter amended. Any reference to a state act, whether by short title or year, page number and/or act number, is a reference to such act, as amended.
Street. The term "street" means and includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, courts, alleys, lanes, circles, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city, and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or land, includes any person who holds a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or part of, such building or land, either alone or with others.
Town. See Municipality.
Week. The term "week" means a seven-day period.
Will. The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Writing, written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
Zoning Code. The term "Zoning Code" means the Zoning Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, as may be amended.
(Code 2007, § 1-103)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-4. - Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes; references in Code.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section or subsection, and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles thereof, or as any part thereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Editor's notes and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 2007, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, and penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 2007, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the section numbers of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia is hereby amended by addition of a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, subdivisions, divisions, articles or chapters sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter, or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 2007, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or official acts of the mayor and/or the city council.
(Code 2007, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or resolutions and parts of ordinances or resolutions included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinances inserted into the Code.
(d)
In no case shall the person make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty.
(a)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means:
(1)
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance;
(2)
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
(3)
Failure to perform an act if the failure is declared a misdemeanor or an offense or unlawful by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
(b)
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty, unless it is provided that failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section or it is clear from the context that it is the intent to impose the penalty provided for in this section upon the officer or employee.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided:
(1)
A person convicted of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or compulsory labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public places for a period not exceeding 30 days, or any combination thereof.
(2)
With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(3)
With respect to violations of this Code that are not continuous with respect to time, each day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(d)
The imposition of a penalty does not prevent revocation or suspension of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(e)
Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by any means as are provided by law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent seeking and obtaining any injunctive, declaratory relief, including any and all available damages.
(Code 2007, § 1-108)
State Law reference— Limitations on penalties, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-35-6(a)(2), 36-32-1(c); authority to punish ordinance violations by requiring labor, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8.
Sec. 1-10. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code. The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted without the incorporation in this Code of the unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
Sec. 1-11. - Enactments not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(2)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(3)
Granting any right or franchise.
(4)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(5)
Providing for salaries or other employee benefits not codified in this Code.
(6)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(7)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(8)
Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
(9)
Dedicating, accepting or approving any plat or subdivision.
(10)
Providing traffic regulations for specific areas, such as "no parking" zones, stop intersections, etc., not in conflict with this Code.
(11)
Levying taxes that are not codified in this Code.
(12)
Rezoning specific property or amending the zoning map.
(13)
Adopted for purposes which have been consummated.
(14)
That is temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in effect.
