Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule power includes authority to regulate construction and building, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ 3; minimum standard codes enumerated, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-20 et seq.; local adoption by reference authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.

Sec. 8-1. - Building permit required.
It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any building or to commence construction of any building or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or to commence the development of land for a use not requiring a building permit until the building inspector has issued a building permit for such work.
(Code 2007, § 14-2)
Sec. 8-2. - Application for building permit.
(a)
Application to the building inspector for a building permit shall be made in writing on a form provided for the purpose. The application must be accompanied by a plan drawn to scale showing the following items in sufficient detail to enable the building inspector to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration is in conformance with this chapter:
(1)
The shape, size, and location of the lot to be built upon;
(2)
The shapes, height, uses, and locations on the lot of buildings or structures to be erected or altered;
(3)
The sizes, locations, and uses of all existing buildings or structures on the lot;
(4)
The number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate, if any;
(5)
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots;
(6)
The layout of off-street parking spaces;
(7)
Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
(b)
If the proposed excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration as set forth is in conformity with the provisions of the code then in force, the building inspector shall issue a building permit. If a building permit is not approved, the building inspector shall state such refusal in writing, including the cause for disapproval.
(c)
The building permit shall contain at least the following information:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The block or street number of the lot to which the permit applies;
(3)
The zoning district in which the property is located;
(4)
Whether the permit authorizes excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration and the type of structure being built;
(5)
The date of the application;
(6)
The signatures of the applicant and the building inspector.
(d)
Before commencing excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration, the building permit, or a copy thereof, shall be placed in a conspicuous location on or near the front of the property for the duration of the excavation, filling, construction, moving, or alteration, and in such a manner that it is protected from the weather.
(Code 2007, § 14-2.1)
Sec. 8-3. - Construction progress.
Any building permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by said permit has been commenced within six months of the date of issue of the permit, or if the work authorized by said permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year or more.
(Code 2007, § 14-2.2)
Sec. 8-4. - Certificate of occupancy required.
No land or building or other structure, or part thereof, hereafter erected, moved, or altered in its use shall be occupied or used until the building inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy.
(Code 2007, § 14-3.1)
Sec. 8-5. - Application for certificate of occupancy.
Within three days after the application for a certificate of occupancy is received on the form provided for the purpose, the building inspector shall sign and issue a certificate of occupancy if the building, structure, or land is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the city then in force, and complies with the plans submitted for the building permit.
(Code 2007, § 14-3.2)
Sec. 8-6. - Denial of certificate of occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of the building, structure, or land, is found to conform to the applicable provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the city then in force, and complies with the plans submitted for the building permit. The building inspector shall state, in writing, the reasons for denying such certificates of occupancy.
(Code 2007, § 14-3.3)
Sec. 8-7. - Records of applications, permits, and certificates.
Records of applications for building permits, building permit approvals and denials, records of plats and plans in connection with said permits, records of applications for certificates of occupancy, and certificate of occupancy approvals and denials shall be kept on file in the office of the building inspector, and shall be made available for inspection pursuant to public records law.
(Code 2007, § 14-4)
Sec. 8-8. - Violation.
In case any building or structure is, or is proposed to be, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter, the building inspector, city attorney or other appropriate authority of the city or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be especially damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land.
(Code 2007, § 14-5)
Sec. 8-9. - Minimum standards code.
(a)
Adoption. The city hereby adopts the various codes enumerated in O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-20(9)(A) and 8-2-20(9)(B), known as the state minimum standards code.
(b)
Definitions.
(1)
Wherever the term "housing inspector," "building inspector," or "building official" is used in the housing code, it means the person designated by the mayor and city council to administer and enforce the code.
(2)
Wherever the term "corporate counsel" is used in the housing code, it means the city attorney.
(3)
Wherever the term "municipality" is used in the housing code, it means the city.
(c)
Enforcement. The housing code adopted herein shall be enforced by the chief building inspector.
(d)
Power to make modifications. The chief building inspector shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the housing code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of the property, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code. It is also provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modifications, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the chief building inspector shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
(Code 2007, § 12-100)
