Chapter 16 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Home rule powers include fire protection, Ga. Const. art. IX, § 2, ¶ III; international fire code has statewide applicability, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; local fire marshal may be deputized, O.C.G.A. § 25-2-12.1.

Sec. 16-1. - Adoption of National Fire Prevention Code.
There is hereby adopted by the mayor and city council, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the fire prevention code, recommended by the American Insurance Association, as may be amended, of which code not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the city clerk; and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2007, § 5-100)
Sec. 16-2. - Definitions of terms used in code.
(a)
Wherever the term "chief of the bureau of fire prevention" is used in the fire prevention code, it means the chief of the fire department, and wherever the term "bureau of fire prevention" is used in the code, it means the fire department.
(b)
Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the fire prevention code, it means the city attorney.
(Code 2007, § 5-101)
Sec. 16-3. - Enforcement.
The fire prevention code adopted herein shall be enforced by the fire chief and such subordinates and firefighters as are required to effectuate the provisions of the code.
(Code 2007, § 5-103)
Sec. 16-4. - Power to make modifications.
The chief of the fire department shall be authorized to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon written application by the owner or lessee of any property, or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed and the public safety secured. The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the department, and a signed copy shall be forwarded to the applicant.
(Code 2007, § 5-104)
Sec. 16-5. - National Incident Management System.
Be it therefore resolved that the city hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS), as established under HSPD 5, and the Unified Command System, as established under O.C.G.A. § 38-3-57, as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents, and directs all incident managers and response organizations in the city to train and exercise and use these systems in their response operations.
(Code 2007, § 5-106)
