Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Alcohol, generally, O.C.G.A. title 3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided by this Code, the terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, including the defined terms set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Sec. 4-2. - Prohibited acts.
Every licensee, including each retailer and wholesaler selling or delivering alcoholic beverages in the city, shall maintain full compliance with the Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; no person shall commit any act prohibited by O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-20 et seq. and 3-3-40 et seq.
Sec. 4-3. - Hours of sale.
No person shall sell alcoholic beverages between the hours of 12:00 midnight on Saturday nights (12:00 a.m. Sundays) and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays. During such times when the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited, any licensee whose place of business is open shall keep all alcoholic beverages locked up in a separate room, drink box, cooler or other such container.
Sec. 4-4. - Delegation of authority.
Whenever a provision requires an officer of the city to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize any other officer or person employed by the city, and charged under the terms of employment, or otherwise authorized by city council, to do the required act or perform the required duty.
Secs. 4-5—4-26. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Local licensure of alcoholic beverage sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2 et seq.

Sec. 4-27. - Annual license required.
A license to sell or serve alcoholic beverages as provided for herein shall be valid only for the calendar year indicated thereon and no such licenses may be renewed. A licensee who desires to continue in business during the next or subsequent calendar year must make a new application for such year on or before November 1 of the preceding year.
Sec. 4-28. - Application requirements.
Any application for an alcoholic beverage license shall be made on forms furnished by the governing authority and shall be accompanied by cash or a certified check in the amount of the fee required for such license. In addition to the completion and submission of an application form, each applicant shall provide documentation establishing that the requirements for a state license are, or can be, met.
Sec. 4-29. - Oath required.
The applicant shall also swear an oath providing that the information disclosed in the application is true and correct, and providing further that each applicant will abide by, observe, and conduct the business according to the ordinances of the city, the laws of the state, and the rules and regulations of the state department of revenue in respect thereto. Each applicant shall sign said oath in the presence of the clerk, who shall witness same.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 5)
Sec. 4-30. - Application process.
(a)
Promptly upon the filing of each such application, the clerk shall mark same "Filed" and the date thereof. Upon return of the results of the required background screening as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(c), the clerk shall place the application on the agenda for the next regular meeting of the mayor and council which is scheduled not less than 15 days subsequent to the date of the completion of the application, or at such other subsequent meeting agreed to by the applicant;
(b)
Petitions for and against the granting of a license under this article shall be accepted by the clerk for filing until such time as the mayor and council have either granted or denied the license applied for;
(c)
All decisions approving, denying, suspending, or revoking the permits or licenses shall be in writing, with the reasons therefor stated, and shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant; and
(d)
Within 30 days of the issuance of a denial, any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the governing authority regarding a permit or license shall be afforded a hearing with an opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
Sec. 4-31. - Licenses not transferable; surrender of license upon close of business.
(a)
A license issued under this article may not be transferred.
(b)
In the event a licensed establishment is closed, the licensee must surrender the license to the clerk within five days after closing.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 9)
Sec. 4-32. - Licensing criteria.
The applicant shall show that the following standards are met for approval of licenses:
(1)
Neither the applicant nor any of applicant's employees at the proposed location have been convicted of a felony or of a violation of the laws or regulations of any state or political subdivision relating to the use or sale of drugs or alcoholic beverages. The forfeiture of bond or collateral or a plea of nolo contendere shall be considered a conviction for the purpose of this section.
(2)
The applicant has not made any false statement on an application for a license under this article.
(3)
The applicant is not determined to be a front for any person whose license has been revoked or who is not eligible for a license under this article.
(4)
The proposed location meets all zoning, development and use requirements, has no uncured code violations, and is compliant with all other state and federal regulations necessary for lawful sale of alcoholic beverages. This shall include the distance restriction imposed by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.
(5)
There are no past-due license fees or past-due ad valorem taxes owed by the applicant.
Sec. 4-33. - Applications for renewal of licenses.
All applications for renewals of licenses which have been issued under the provisions of this article shall be made in person by applicants at the office of the clerk not later than June 15 of each year for the following year and the prescribed license fees paid at the time of filing. The license year shall run from January 1 to December 31 of the following year.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 8)
Sec. 4-34. - False statements on application; grounds for suspension or revocation.
The making of any statement on an application for a license under this article which is later found to be false shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of such license as has been issued pursuant to said application.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 10)
Sec. 4-35. - Suspension, revocation of license.
(a)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a definite time or may be revoked if the licensee or any employee of the licensed establishment has been convicted of the violation of any act prohibited by this article or of failure to perform any act required by this article or is convicted of the violation of any state or federal law relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages. The forfeiture of bond or collateral or a plea of nolo contendere shall be considered a conviction for the purposes of this section.
(b)
Any license issued under this article may be suspended for a definite time or revoked if the judge of the municipal court has determined that there is probable cause to believe that the licensee or an employee of the licensed establishment has violated a state or federal law relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages. The procedure for making such determination shall be:
(1)
The chief of police, after obtaining reliable information that such a violation has been committed, shall cite the licensee to appear for a hearing on a day certain before the city court and shall advise the licensee of the law believed to have been violated.
(2)
The judge of the municipal court, after hearing evidence, shall make a determination whether there is probable cause to believe the alleged violation has been committed. If the hearing results in a determination that probable cause does exist, the findings shall be reduced to writing and filed with the clerk, who shall report same to the mayor and council at the next regular meeting thereof.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 22)
Sec. 4-36. - Notice and hearing; appeal.
No licenses issued under this article may be suspended or revoked unless the licensee has been afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the mayor and council or a committee designated by the mayor and council. The licensee shall be given at least five days' written notice delivered to the licensee in person or by United States certified mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing and the grounds for suspension or revocation. At such hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney and to have witnesses appear in his behalf. If a license is suspended or revoked by a committee designated by the mayor and council, such suspension or revocation may be appealed by the licensee to the mayor and city council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within a period of ten days following the date of the order of the committee suspending or revoking said license, and the decision of the mayor and council on any such appeal shall be final.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 23)
Secs. 4-37—4-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 4-61. - License required.
No beer or malt beverage, as herein defined, shall be sold or manufactured to the city except under a license granted by the mayor and council.
(Code 2007, § 10-200, ¶ 2)
Sec. 4-62. - License fee.
The fee for the license required by this division shall be set by the city from time to time and shall be maintained on file with the city clerk.
Secs. 4-63—4-82. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY THE PACKAGE

Sec. 4-83. - Separate licenses required.
A separate retail liquor license shall be required for each place of business; however, only one retail liquor license shall be issued to any one person in the city.
(Code 2007, § 10-201, ¶ 5)
Sec. 4-84. - Restrictions on retailers.
(a)
No retailer shall sell or offer for sale, or display or keep in stock at his place of business where liquor is offered for sale, any other product or commodity except the following:
(1)
Wines, when properly licensed.
(2)
Beverages containing no alcohol, commonly used to dilute distilled spirits.
(3)
Malt beverages or beer, when properly licensed.
(4)
Tobacco products.
(5)
Packaged ice.
(b)
No beverages or packages of ice may be opened or consumed in said place of business.
(Code 2007, § 10-201, ¶ 8)
Secs. 4-85—4-111. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - ALCOHOL SALES BY THE DRINK[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Local referendum to permit alcohol sales by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-90 et seq.

Sec. 4-112. - Consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits license authorized.
Notwithstanding anything in this Code to the contrary, any establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served is authorized to apply for a license for consumption of sales by the drink of distilled spirits within the municipal limits of the city, on Monday through Saturday, from 12:30 p.m. until 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. of 8-29-2014, § 1, ¶ a)
Sec. 4-113. - Applicant must show majority of sales for prepared meals/food.
Applicants for a consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits permit shall complete an application form and affidavit furnished by the city finance officer. An applicant shall submit to the city finance officer a certification by a certified public accountant that the certification shall be based upon a review of the applicant's total gross annual income for the licensed location during the 12 months immediately preceding his application for a permit under this section. If the applicant has been in business for less than 12 months at the proposed location for consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits, then such certification shall be for the time that the applicant has been in business, annualized. If the applicant is filing an application for a new business, a certification from a public accountant will not be required for the initial application, but instead, the applicant must certify under oath that the person applying for the consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits permit intends to meet the requirements set out in this chapter. A certification from a public accountant will be required upon each renewal thereafter.
(Ord. of 8-29-2014, § 1, ¶ b)
Sec. 4-114. - Permits shall be displayed.
Upon the determination by the city finance officer that the applicant is eligible for a consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits permit, the city finance officer shall issue the permit, which shall be kept permanently and prominently displayed by the licensee in his place of business. It shall be a violation of this Code for any licensee to fail to display such permit as provided by this section.
(Ord. of 8-29-2014, § 1, ¶ c)
Sec. 4-115. - Annual renewal.
The determination of an establishment's eligibility to obtain a consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits permit shall be made annually upon the renewal of the same. Prior to renewal of such permit, the licensee shall submit current information regarding the eligibility as required in this chapter. During the 12-month term of the licensee's consumption of sales by the drink distilled spirits permit, the establishment shall remain in full compliance at all times with the requirements set out in this chapter.
(Ord. of 8-29-2014, § 1, ¶ d)
Editor's note— A special election was held on November 4, 2014, with more than half of the voters voting in the affirmative, which referendum stated: "Shall the governing authority of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, be authorized to issue licenses to sell distilled spirits for beverage purposes by the drink in restaurants, such sales to be for consumption only on the premises?"
