Chapter 18 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authorization and procedure for city to abate a public nuisance; O.C.G.A. § 41-2-1 et seq.; jurisdiction for nuisance abatements with municipal court, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5; unfit structures and health hazards abatement procedure, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.; definitions related to nuisance structures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings respectively ascribed below; additionally, unless otherwise provided for herein, the terms defined in O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq., shall be applicable to this chapter:
Abandoned. An article of machinery, appliance, vehicle, article of equipment and other material shall be deemed to have been abandoned or discarded when it has remained upon the property in an inoperable condition for more than ten days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back into operation.
Abandoned vehicle means one that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its own power. It shall be prima facie evidence that a vehicle has been abandoned if the owner or person in possession of said vehicle cannot furnish satisfactory evidence that the motor vehicle license fee required by the Official Code of Georgia Annotated has been paid and that the Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act has been complied with respecting said motor vehicle.
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, ice boxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, clothes dryers, television sets, radio sets, lawn mowers, and other devices of like nature.
Deal in junk or metals means any person who owns, leases, operates, or otherwise maintains facilities for processing junk or metals or who buys, sells, or in any way deals in any used or discarded metal material or articles.
Dismantler means any person removing, replacing, or disassembling major component parts of any type of motor vehicles, for any period of time.
Garbage means organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, including, but not limited to, waste matter from houses, kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals and other such places, and it comprises chiefly of food waste. The term "garbage" does not include moisture that may be drained in the sewer or human body wastes.
Junk means any old or scrap copper, brass, ropes, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, radiators, debris or wastes; junk, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof; or iron, steel, and any other scrap ferrous or nonferrous material; or any abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment or material of any description or kind whatsoever.
Junkyard means a yard, lot, or place, covered or uncovered, outdoors or in an enclosed building, upon which occurs one or more acts of buying, storing, keeping, dismantling, processing, selling, or offering for sale any such junk in whole units or by parts, for a business or commercial purpose, whether or not the proceeds from such acts are to be used for charity.
Major component part means one of the following sub-assemblies of a motor vehicle:
(1)
Front clip assembly (fenders, grille, and hood);
(2)
Rear clip assembly (quarter panels and floor panel assembly);
(3)
Engine and transmission;
(4)
Top assembly, with the exception of soft tops;
(5)
Frame or frame sections; or
(6)
Complete side (fenders, door, and quarter panel).
Motor vehicle means any vehicle which is self-propelled, except trackless trolleys (which are classified as streetcars), motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, or go-carts.
Nuisance means anything that causes hurt, inconvenience, or damage to another, and the fact that the act done may otherwise be lawful shall not keep it from being a nuisance. The inconvenience complained of shall not be fanciful, or such as would affect only one of fastidious taste, but shall be such as would affect an ordinary, reasonable person.
State Law reference— Definition of nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1.
Part means any used motor vehicle part that has been installed as standard or optional equipment on a motor vehicle, has been removed from the motor vehicle on which it was originally attached or affixed, and is the subject of sale or resale as a part and not as scrap.
Private nuisance means a nuisance limited in its injurious effects to one of a few households.
Public nuisance means a nuisance which damages all persons who come within the sphere of its operation, though it may vary in its effect on individuals.
Public officer means the person designated by the mayor, with the advice and consent of city council, to enforce this chapter, including, but not limited to, conducting inspections and issuing citations, and having the authority to act on behalf of the city as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9 et seq.
Salvage dealer means any person, firm, or corporation who purchases a salvage vehicle or parts of a salvage vehicle for purposes of resale as parts only or as salvage.
Salvage vehicle means any vehicle which either:
(1)
Has been damaged, crushed, or otherwise reduced to such a state that its restoration would require the replacement of two or more major component parts;
(2)
Has been acquired from an insurance company as a result of the vehicle's being damaged to the extent that its restoration to an operable condition would require the replacement of two or more major component parts or for which the insurance company has paid a total loss claim, excluding recovered total theft vehicles which do not require the replacement of two or more major component parts for restoration; or
(3)
Is an imported vehicle which has been damaged in shipment and disclaimed by the manufacturer as a result of the damage, has never been the subject of a retail sale to a consumer, and has never been issued a certificate of title.
Scrap vehicle means any vehicle which has been wrecked, destroyed, or damaged to the extent that it cannot be economically repaired, rebuilt, or made operable or roadworthy.
Trash means rubbish such as feathers, paper, cans, bottles, boxes, wood, glass, shrubs, yard clippings, tree trimmings, and all similar matter.
Unsafe building means any building or structure that has any of the following conditions, such that the life, health, property, or safety of the general public, or its occupants, is endangered:
(1)
Whenever any means of egress or portion thereof is not of adequate size or is not arranged to provide a safe path of travel in case of fire or panic.
(2)
Whenever any means of egress, or portion thereof, such as, but not limited to, fire doors, closing devices, or fire resistive ratings are in disrepair or in a dilapidated or non-working condition such that means of egress could be rendered unsafe in case of fire or panic.
(3)
Whenever the stress in any material, member or portion thereof, due to all imposed loads, including dead load, exceeds the working stresses allowed in the standard building code for new buildings.
(4)
Whenever a building, structure, or portion thereof has been damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, wind or other cause to the extent that the structural integrity of the building or structure is less than it was prior to the damage and is less than the minimum requirement established by the standard building code for new buildings.
(5)
Whenever any exterior appendage or portion of a building or structure is not securely fastened, attached or anchored such that it is capable of resisting wind, seismic or similar loads as required by the standard building code for new buildings.
(6)
Whenever for any reason a building, structure, or portion thereof is manifestly unsafe or unsanitary for the purpose for which it is being used.
(7)
Whenever any building, structure, or portion thereof, as a result of decay, deterioration, or dilapidation is likely to fully or partially collapse.
(8)
Whenever any building, structure, or portion thereof has been constructed or maintained in violation of a specific requirement of the standard codes or of a city, county or state law.
(9)
Whenever any building, structure, or portion thereof is in such condition as to constitute a public nuisance.
(10)
Whenever any building, structure, or portion thereof is unsafe, unsanitary or not provided with adequate egress, or constitutes a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to human life, or, in relation to existing use, constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment.
Vehicle means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Weed means a plant considered undesirable, unattractive or troublesome, especially one growing where it is not wanted.
(Code 2007, § 11-101)
Secs. 18-2—18-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - GENERAL NUISANCES

Sec. 18-19. - Duty of owner to properly maintain.
It is the duty of the owner of every dwelling, building, structure, or property within the jurisdiction to construct and maintain such dwelling, building, structure, or property in conformance with applicable codes in force within the jurisdiction, or such ordinances which regulate and prohibit activities on property and which declare it to be a public nuisance to construct or maintain any dwelling, building, structure, or property in violation of such codes or ordinances.
Sec. 18-20. - Nuisance property.
The public officer may determine that a lot is a nuisance if it is maintained in violation of this chapter. Additionally, the public officer may determine that a dwelling, building, or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling, or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building, or structure; of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings, or structures; or of other residents of such county or municipality. Such conditions may include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
Sec. 18-21. - Declaration of nuisance.
It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance, for any person:
(1)
To deposit, collect, store, maintain, scatter upon, or permit to be deposited, collected, stored or to remain upon private property any junk, trash, refuse, abandoned property, or vehicle which is unsightly, unhealthy or hazardous.
(2)
To permit a condition or use of a premises or of a building exterior which is detrimental to the property or health of others, or which causes or tends to cause more than slight diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which said premises is located, or which is considered unsightly, unhealthy, and/or hazardous. This includes, but is not limited to, the depositing on, scattering over, or keeping up on the premises any of the following:
a.
Unsheltered storage of lumber, pipe, junk, windows, wire, tires, refuse, trash, unstacked bricks or blocks, or major component parts of a vehicle;
b.
Storage of abandoned, discarded or unused appliances, machinery, equipment, furniture, motor vehicles, cans, or containers;
c.
Any compost pile which is of such nature as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gases, or attract rodents, or other obnoxious animals or insects, provided that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not constitute a nuisance;
d.
Unsanitary items, deleterious septic or disease-producing materials, gases, or fluids, unless such material is contained in containers or vessels which prevent leakage and escape, and which deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents, and animals, and such material is kept in compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning it;
e.
Toxic or poisonous materials, gases, or fluids, unless such material is contained in containers or vessels which prevent leakage and escape, and which deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents and animals, and such material is kept in compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning it;
f.
Piles of dirt, gravel, sand, bricks, concrete blocks, roofing, metal, or other similar items, substances, or byproducts.
(Code 2007, § 11-600)
Sec. 18-22. - Recycling not a defense.
The fact that any junk, trash, or abandoned property is being held for recycling or for further processing of the component parts shall not be a defense to any criminal prosecution or action of abatement under this article. It shall not be unlawful for any person or business to possess and store paper, glass, and aluminum cans and containers, if such paper, glass, and aluminum products are to be held for recycling or reprocessing, which shall be located and carried on solely within a building, except for purposes of loading or unloading said paper, glass, or aluminum cans.
(Code 2007, § 11-601)
Sec. 18-23. - Unsheltered storage of non-operating vehicles.
(a)
It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance, for any person to deposit, collect, store, maintain or permit to be deposited, collected, stored, or to remain upon said private property any inoperable vehicle, salvage vehicle, scrap vehicle, or other motor vehicle not in good and safe operating condition, unless the non-operating vehicle is sheltered or enclosed behind opaque fencing sufficient to fully restrict access to and the view of the non-operable vehicle.
(b)
No person shall deal in junk or metals, or be a dismantler, a rebuilder or salvage dealer, as those terms are defined in this Code, except that a place of business may be maintained for the purposes of a business office only, provided that all activities associated with the physical dismantling, rebuilding, or salvaging shall be carried on outside the city limits, or at a junkyard permitted and licensed as provided by the Code.
(Code 2007, § 11-602)
Sec. 18-24. - Animal carcasses; prohibition on placing.
It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance, for any person to place or bury the carcass of any animal in any stream, road, alley, or public place, or to place or bury any such carcass upon the premises of another, or place or keep a carcass on one's own premises without burying said carcass so deep as to prevent all stench therefrom.
(Code 2007, § 11-604)
Sec. 18-25. - Hazardous growth prohibited.
It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to allow or permit weeds, grass, shrubs, trees, and other vegetation to grow and be upon such person's premises uncut or untrimmed so as to render the premises unsightly, unhealthful, or hazardous from the growth or accumulation of such vegetation. Any growth of weeds, grass, shrubs, trees, or such vegetation which presents a present or potential threat of fire, vermin, rodents, obnoxious insects, pestilence, or disease shall be considered unsightly, unhealthful, and hazardous.
(Code 2007, § 11-400)
Sec. 18-26. - Placement of trimmings.
It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance, for any person to place tree limbs, grass clippings, cuttings, shrubbery and other similar trash in the gutter, storm sewers, or drainage ditches of the city. To place or permit to be placed said trimmings in the gutter, storm sewer, or drainage ditches of the city is declared to be a nuisance and will be subject to abatement as provided in this article.
(Code 2007, § 11-402)
Sec. 18-27. - Abatement of nuisances in general.
Any nuisance existing within the city limits may be abated as follows:
(1)
Notice of maintaining a public nuisance. If a violation of any code or ordinance is found, the code enforcement officer, as designated and authorized from time to time by the city, shall notify the violator and give him a reasonable time to correct the nuisance. The time period required to gain compliance shall depend on the nature of the violation constituting a nuisance, the length of time reasonably necessary to cure the condition, and the extent to which the condition constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(2)
Initiation of proceedings. Should the condition continue beyond the time specified for correction, proceedings to abate a public nuisance shall be initiated by the city attorney by filing of a complaint with the municipal court, as provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-2 and 41-2-5, which such complaints shall state the nature and location of the alleged violation, including the Code section prohibiting the condition or declaring it a nuisance, and the name and address of the complainant.
(3)
Notice. Upon the filing of a complaint as hereinabove provided, the city attorney shall serve notice directed to the owner, and, where applicable, the occupants of the premises as provided for by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8.
(4)
Hearing. The municipal court shall order such person to show cause, either personally or by attorney, at the time and place directed by the municipal court, why such activity alleged to be a nuisance should not be ordered abated and removed. Such notice shall be served in a manner provided for by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8.
(5)
Order to abatement. If, after hearing all the evidence, the municipal court should decide that the activity complained of is a nuisance, the municipal court shall issue an order directed to the chief of police or any member of the police force, commanding that the nuisance be abated. A copy of such order of abatement shall be served on the party maintaining the nuisance.
(6)
Effect of noncompliance. In the event of a refusal to comply with the order of abatement issued by the mayor, the person maintaining the nuisance shall be subject to arrest for violation of state law.
Secs. 18-28—18-44. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NUISANCE STRUCTURES AND DWELLINGS

Sec. 18-45. - Abatement of nuisance dwellings, buildings and structures.
(a)
It is hereby found and declared that in the city, there is the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use and which are not in compliance with the applicable state minimum standard codes as adopted by ordinance or operation of law or any optional building, fire, life safety, or other codes relative to the safe use of real property and real property improvements adopted by ordinance in the jurisdiction where the property is located, or general nuisance law; and which constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the state; and that a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such dwellings, buildings, or structures.
(b)
Further, it is found by the mayor and council of the city that there exists in this municipality dwellings, buildings, or structures which are unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business uses due to dilapidation and defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; or other conditions rendering such dwellings, buildings, or structures unsafe or unsanitary, or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city.
(c)
Therefore, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq., the city does hereby enact this article as an exercise of the power conferred by said state law to exercise the police power of the city to repair, close, or demolish the aforesaid property, dwellings, buildings, or structures in the manner provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-8 through 41-2-17, as amended from time to time, and do hereby make said code sections a part of this Code.
(Code 2007, § 11-300)
State Law reference— Certain structures and dwellings found to be nuisance, abatement procedures, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-7 et seq.
Sec. 18-46. - Appointment of public officer.
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall from time to time designate and appoint a public officer to exercise the powers prescribed by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8 et seq., and as set forth in this chapter.
(Code 2007, § 11-301)
Sec. 18-47. - Procedure for enforcement.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-9, the city may abate such public nuisances, as defined herein, according the following procedure:
(1)
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the municipality charging that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions; the public officer shall make an investigation or inspection of the specific dwelling, building, structure, or property. If the public officer's investigation or inspection identifies that any dwelling, building, structure, or property is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions; the public officer may issue a complaint in rem against the lot, tract, or parcel of real property on which such dwelling, building, or structure is situated or where such public health hazard or general nuisance exists, and shall cause summons and a copy of the complaint to be served on the interested parties for such dwelling, building, or structure. The complaint shall identify the subject real property by appropriate street address and official tax map reference, identify the interested parties, state with particularity the factual basis for the action, and contain a statement of the action sought by the public officer to abate the alleged nuisance. The summons shall notify the interested parties that a hearing will be held before a court of competent jurisdiction as determined by O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, at a date and time certain and at a place within the county or municipality where the property is located. Such hearing shall be held not less than 15 days nor more than 45 days after the filing of said complaint in the proper court. The interested parties shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or by attorney and offer testimony at the time and place fixed for hearing;
(2)
If, after notice and hearing, the court determines that the dwelling, building, or structure in question is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial, or business use and not in compliance with applicable codes; is vacant and being used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or constitutes an endangerment to the public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions; the court shall state, in writing, findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the interested parties who have answered the complaint or appeared at the hearing an order:
a.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of said dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve such dwelling, building, or structure so as to bring it into full compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violation and, if applicable, to secure the structure so that it cannot be used in connection with the commission of drug crimes; or
b.
If the repair, alteration, or improvement of said dwelling, building, or structure, in order to bring it into full compliance with applicable codes relevant to the cited violations, cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure, requiring the owner, within the time specified in the order, to demolish and remove such dwelling, building, or structure and all debris from the property;
(3)
For purposes of this section, the court shall make its determination of reasonable cost in relation to the present value of the dwelling, building, or structure without consideration of the value of the land on which the structure is situated; provided, however, that costs of the preparation necessary to repair, alter, or improve a structure may be considered. Income and financial status of the owner shall not be factors in the court's determination. The present value of the structure and the costs of repair, alteration, or improvement may be established by affidavits of real estate appraisers with a state appraiser classification as provided in O.C.G.A. § 43-39A-1 et seq., qualified building contractors, or qualified building inspectors, without actual testimony presented. Costs of repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure shall be the cost necessary to bring the structure into compliance with the applicable codes relevant to the cited violations in force in the jurisdiction;
(4)
When the court orders such relief as provided above, the court shall also order abatement action by the city if the owner fails to comply with an order to repair or demolish the dwelling, building, or structure. In such case, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building, or structure to be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished. Such abatement action shall commence within 270 days after the expiration of time specified in the order for abatement by the owner. Any time during which such action is prohibited by a court order issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-13, or any other equitable relief granted by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall not be counted toward the 270 days in which such abatement action must commence. The public officer shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the building, dwelling, or structure a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial, or business use and does not comply with the applicable codes, or has been ordered secured to prevent its use in connection with drug crimes, or constitutes an endangerment to public health or safety as a result of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. The use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful";
(5)
If the public officer has the structure demolished, reasonable effort shall be made to salvage reusable materials for credit against the cost of demolition. The proceeds of any moneys received from the sale of salvaged materials shall be used or applied against the cost of the demolition and removal of the structure, and proper records shall be kept showing application of sales proceeds. Any such sale of salvaged materials may be made without the necessity of public advertisement and bid. The public official and governing authority are relieved of any and all liability resulting from or occasioned by the sale of any such salvaged materials, including, without limitation, defects in such salvaged materials; and
(6)
Finally, when the court orders such relief as stated above, the court shall also order that the amount of the cost incurred by the city for demolition, all court costs, appraisal fees, any administrative costs incurred by the county or city, and all other costs necessarily associated with the abatement action, including restoration to grade of the real property after demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Where the abatement action does not commence in the superior court, review of a court order requiring the repair, alteration, improvement, or demolition of a dwelling, building, or structure shall be by direct appeal to the superior court under O.C.G.A. § 5-3-29.
Sec. 18-48. - Lien for costs incurred; collection.
(a)
The lien provided for under this chapter shall attach to the real property upon the filing of a certified copy of the order requiring repair, closure, or demolition in the office of the clerk of superior court in the county where the real property is located, and shall relate back to the date of the filing of the lis pendens notice required under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-12(c). The clerk of superior court shall record and index such certified copy of the order in the deed records of the county and enter the lien on the general execution docket. The lien shall be superior to all other liens on the property, except liens for taxes to which the lien shall be inferior, and shall continue in force until paid.
(b)
Upon final determination of costs, fees, and expenses incurred in accordance with this chapter, the public official responsible for enforcement actions in accordance with this chapter shall transmit to the appropriate county tax commissioner a statement of the total amount due and secured by said lien, together with copies of all notices provided to interested parties. The statement of the public official shall be transmitted within 90 days of completion of the repairs, demolition, or closure. It shall be the duty of the appropriate county tax commissioner to collect the amount of the lien using all methods available for collecting real property ad valorem taxes, including specifically O.C.G.A. § 48-4-1 et seq.; provided, however, that the limitation of O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 which requires 12 months of delinquency before commencing a tax foreclosure, shall not apply. A county tax commissioner shall collect and enforce municipal liens imposed pursuant to this chapter in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-5-359.1. The county tax commissioner or municipal tax collector or city revenue officer shall remit the amount collected to the city.
(c)
Enforcement of liens pursuant to this section may be initiated at any time following receipt by the county tax commissioner of the final determination of costs in accordance with this chapter. The unpaid lien amount shall bear interest and penalties from and after the date of final determination of costs in the same amount as applicable to interest and penalties on unpaid real property ad valorem taxes. An enforcement proceeding pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-4-78 for delinquent ad valorem taxes may include all amounts due under this chapter.
(d)
The redemption amount in any enforcement proceeding pursuant to this section shall be the full amount of the costs, as finally determined in accordance with this chapter, together with interest, penalties, and costs incurred by the governing authority or county tax commissioner in the enforcement of such lien. Redemption of property from the lien may be made in accordance with the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 48-4-80 and 48-4-81.
Sec. 18-49. - Release of lien.
The city may waive and release any such lien imposed on property upon the owner of such property entering into a contract with the municipality agreeing to a timetable for rehabilitation of the real property or the dwelling, building, or structure on the property and demonstrating the financial means to accomplish such rehabilitation.
