PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied. Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term "mayor's court" has been changed to "municipal courts."

ARTICLE I. - CHARTER
CHARTER, CITY OF WRIGHTSVILLE, GEORGIA.
APPROVED AUGUST 18, 1923, AND SUBSEQUENTLY AMENDED.
An Act to amend, consolidate and supersede the several Acts incorporating the City of Wrightsville, in the County of Johnson; to create a new Charter and a municipal government for said city; to prescribe its boundaries; and for other purposes.

Sec. 1. - Mayor and council of, powers.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that the municipal government of the City of Wrightsville, shall consist of a mayor and three [four] councilmen, who are hereby constituted a body corporate under the name and style of "The mayor and council of Wrightsville," and by that name are hereby made a body corporate; as such they shall have perpetual succession, shall have a common seal, make contracts, hold, possess, by purchase or gift, and shall have the right to purchase and sell for the use of said city, real estate and personal property and to sue and be sued.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 410), page 1832, § 1; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), page 2171, § 1)
Editor's note— The editors changed the number of councilmembers in this section from three to four to be consistent with the amendment to the Charter by 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 840), page 3084, which provided for said change in each and every other place in the law except section 1.
Sec. 2. - Corporate limits.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville shall extend three-fourths of a mile in every direction from the center of the courthouse, in the County of Johnson, State of Georgia, as it is now situated. The city shall be divided into four districts as follows: District 1. All of the territory within the city limits east of the Wrightsville and Tennille Railway. District 2. All of the territory within the city limits south of Elm Street and west of the Wrightsville and Tennille Railway. District 3. All of the territory within the city limits north of Elm Street and west of the Wrightsville and Tennille Railway. District 4. All that territory comprising the corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville outside a three-quarter mile radius from the courthouse, and more specifically, that area added to the corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville by this Act.
2-A.
The corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville shall also include all that area embraced in the following description, to-wit:
Beginning at the point where the present corporate limits intersect with the center of State Route 57 (east); thence south 21° 15′ west 6,409 feet; thence north 78° 15′ west to a point; thence south 56° 15′ west 2,996 feet; thence south 44° 45′ west 375 feet; thence south 65° west 507 feet to the center of the W. & T. Railroad track (south); thence in a generally northerly direction along the center of the W. & T. Railroad 4,587 feet; thence north 53° 45′ west 3,742 feet; thence south 53° 15′ west 1,597 feet; thence north 33° 45′ west 1,881 feet; thence north 46° 30′ east 1,406 feet; thence north 11° east 2,950 feet to the center line of State Route 57 (northwest); thence north 69° east 3,927 feet to the center of State Route 15 and the intersection of the present corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville.
2-B.
The corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville shall also include all that area embraced in the following description, to-wit:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 1,201st G. M. District of Johnson County, Georgia, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the westerly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road, said point being located at the point where the present city limits line of Wrightsville, Georgia intersects said westerly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road; thence running in a southerly direction along the westerly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road, a distance of 2,033 feet to the point where said westerly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road intersects the northerly boundary line of property of Wrightsville Enterprises, Inc.; thence running along the northerly boundary line of property of Wrightsville Enterprises, Inc. and property of John B. Folsom, south 72 degrees 51 minutes west, a distance of 1,076 feet to a point; thence running along the easterly boundary of property of John B. Folsom, north 17 degrees 38 minutes west, 700.46 feet to a point on the southerly side of a dirt road; thence running along the southerly side of said dirt road, south 58 degrees 00 minutes west, 445 feet to a point; thence running along the westerly boundary line of property of John B. Folsom (under option to Wrightsville Enterprises, Inc.), south 17 degrees 38 minutes east, a distance of 743 feet to a point; thence continuing south 17 degrees 38 minutes east, a distance of 200 feet to a point; thence running north 72 degrees 51 minutes east, a distance of 1,380 feet to a point on the westerly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road; thence running north 72 degrees 51 minutes east, a distance of 85 feet to a point on the easterly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road; thence running along the easterly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road in a northerly direction, a distance of 2,398 feet to the point where said easterly right-of-way line of Idylwild Road intersects the present city limits line of Wrightsville, Georgia; thence running in a westerly direction along the present city limits line of Wrightsville, Georgia, a distance of 85 feet, more or less, back to the point of beginning, as shown by a plat prepared by C. L. Gillis, Sr., on February 1, 1971, which plat is hereby made a part of this description.
The area and territory added by this section shall, for the purposes of voting, elections, electors and all other such purposes, be a part of District 4 and shall be in addition to that area and territory designated as District 4 by the provisions of section 2 of this Act.
2-C.
In addition to any territory included within the corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville, those corporate limits shall also include the following described territory:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 1,201st GMD of Johnson County, Georgia, containing 213.06 acres, more or less, and being more particularly described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the present corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville and the northerly right-of-way of Pringle Road (County Road 93) (80″/W); thence north 42° 47′ 28″ east a distance of 475.57 feet along the northerly right-of-way of Pringle Road to a point at the intersection of the northerly right-of-way of Pringle Road and the westerly right-of-way of Donovan Road (County Road 97) (100′ R/W); thence north 24° 25′ 10″ west a distance of 684.75 feet along the westerly right-of-way of Donovan Road to a point; thence along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road along a curve having a chord bearing of north 11° 42′ 28″ west, a chord distance of 451.03 feet and an arc distance of 454.75 feet to a point; thence north 0° 59′ 01″ east a distance of 951.70 feet along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road to a point; thence along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road along a curve having a chord bearing of north 08° 30′ 06″ east, a chord distance of 1,280.87 feet and an arc distance of 1,283.50 feet to a point; thence north 14° 52′ 54″ east a distance of 1,876.00 feet along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road to a point; thence north 61° 45′ 47″ east a distance of 135.68 feet to a concrete monument on the easterly right-of-way of Donovan Road; thence north 60° 58′ 52″ east a distance of 570.50 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 28° 10′ 11″ east a distance of 83.53 feet to a concrete monument; thence north 59° 26′ 43″ east a distance of 83.26 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 74° 15′ 47″ east a distance of 2,491.59 feet to a concrete monument; thence south 14° 51′ 51″ west a distance of 2,663.23 feet to a concrete monument on the northerly right-of-way of Pringle Road; thence south 84° 10′ 15″ west a distance of 91.80 feet along the said right-of-way of Pringle Road to a concrete monument; thence along the said right-of-way of Pringle Road along a curve having a chord bearing of south 75° 35′ 05″ west with a chord distance of 439.61 feet and an arc distance of 441.26 feet to a concrete monument; thence north 75° 25′ 51″ west a distance of 2,516.95 feet to a concrete monument on the easterly right-of-way of Donovan Road; thence along the easterly right-of-way of Donovan Road along a curve having a chord bearing of south 05° 28′ 26″ west, a chord distance of 660.72 feet and an arc distance of 661.09 feet to a point; thence south 0° 58′ 57″ west a distance of 950.07 feet along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road to a point; thence along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road along a curve having a chord bearing of south 11° 43′ 07" east, a chord distance of 406.84 feet and an arc distance of 410.19 feet to a point; thence south 24° 25′ 10″ east a distance of 729.66 feet along the said right-of-way of Donovan Road to a point on the southerly right-of-way of Pringle Road; thence south 42° 47′ 28″ west a distance of 596.74 feet along the southerly right-of-way of Pringle Road to a point on the present corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville; thence along the present corporate limits of the City of Wrightsville along an arc having a radius of 3,960.00 feet with a chord bearing of north 16° 55′ 43″ west, a chord distance of 92.64 feet and an arc distance of 92.64 feet to the point of beginning.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 410), page 1832, § 2; 1958 Ga. Laws (Act No. 296), page 3013, § 1; 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 840), page 3084, §§ 1, 2; 1971 Ga. Laws (Act No. 258), page 2707; 1990 Ga. Laws (Act No. 723), page 3530)
Sec. 3. - Terms of office.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the officers of said City of Wrightsville shall comprise a mayor and four councilmen. The mayor to hold office for a term of three [four] years and until his successor is elected and qualified, and the councilmen to hold their offices for a term of three [four] years, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1151; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 410), page 1832, § 3; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), page 2171, § 2; 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 840), page 3084, § 3)
Editor's note— Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 21-2-541.1, which provides for a four-year term unless otherwise stated by special act, the two-year term stated in the preceding special act is amended as reflected herein.
Sec. 4. - Date of election.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that an election shall be held at the city hall in the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, on the first Tuesday in November, 1953, and every two years thereafter for the election of a mayor and four councilmen, that said election shall be opened at 7:00 a.m., and shall close at 6:00 p.m., same to be held under the superintendence of a justice of the peace and two freeholders who reside in said city or by three freeholders who reside in said city under the form, rules and regulations prescribed by law for the election of members of the General Assembly of said state insofar as they are applicable to such elections, and do not conflict with the rules herein prescribed. The councilman representing District 4 shall be J. A. Spell, who shall serve as councilman until the first Wednesday in December, 1961, at such time a successor to the councilman shall be elected as provided hereinabove.
4-A.
Any two members of said council and the mayor, or three members of the council, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business of said city, and the vote of any two members of said council and the mayor, or any three members of the council shall be sufficient to decide any question or matter by said council.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1151; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 410), page 1832, § 4; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), page 2171, § 3; 1960 Ga. Laws (Act No. 840), page 3084, §§ 4, 5)
Sec. 5. - Oath of office.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the person or persons who shall receive the highest number of votes at said elections for mayor and councilmen, respectively, shall be declared duly elected, and it shall be the duty of the superintendents of the election to declare the result of said elections, and [the superintendents] shall issue certificates of election to such persons receiving the highest number of legal votes poled, which officers shall qualify on the first day of December next after said elections, or so soon as is practicable thereafter by taking an oath before some officer authorized to administer oaths in this state, to well and truly perform the duties of their respective offices as mayor and councilmen, during their continuance therein, which oath, with the list of voters and tally sheets and certificates of election given by said superintendents, shall be entered of record on the minutes of said council, the original filed in the office of the clerk of the council.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1941 Ga. Laws (Act No. 410), page 1832, § 5)
Sec. 6. - Qualified voters.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all citizens qualified to vote for the members of the General Assembly of Georgia, who shall have paid all taxes, fines, assessments and legal demands by the authority of said city, and shall have bona fide resided six months within the jurisdiction of said city, and shall have duly registered and had their names placed upon the voter list of said city, shall be qualified to vote in said election.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 7. - Voter registration.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the mayor and council of Wrightsville shall cause the clerk of council to register the names of all voters who are qualified to vote under this Charter, and under the laws of this state for municipal officers of the City of Wrightsville; and shall cause said clerk to provide a suitable book in which to register said qualified voters, and said clerk shall give notice in the newspaper of said city, at least 30 days preceding the election, that his books are opened for the registration of voters who are qualified to vote for municipal officers, which said book shall be closed at least ten days before the election, after which it shall be the duty of the clerk to submit said registrations to the mayor and council of Wrightsville, whose duty it shall be to purge said registrations and prepare and furnish to the superintendents of elected voters [a] list containing all of the legally registered qualified voters of said city, and only those whose names appear on said list shall be qualified to vote at said election. That said registration book shall be known as the permanent registration book and the electors who qualified and have signed the permanent qualification book shall not thereafter be required to register or further qualify except as may be required by the mayor and council of Wrightsville. And such electors shall in all cases be entitled to receive the same notice and have the same right as now given under the general laws of this state, under the permanent registration law; provided that no person shall remain registered longer than he retains the qualifications under which he registered; that the clerk of the council shall submit said registration books annually to the mayor and council of Wrightsville for the purpose of preparing and furnishing a voter list containing all the names of all voters or electors qualified and entitled to vote at such election.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 8. - Voter registration, qualification.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that it shall be the duty of all persons to register to apply to the clerk in person and to furnish evidence of their qualifications for registration, and in case the clerk is not satisfied as to the qualifications of the applicant, he may require the following oath or affirmation: "I do solemnly swear that I am a duly qualified voter for members of the General Assembly of Georgia for the County of Johnson; that I have paid all taxes, fines, forfeitures and all assessments legally imposed upon me by the City of Wrightsville, and that I bona fide will have resided within the City of Wrightsville six months prior to this election, so help me God." The clerk of said city is hereby authorized to administer said oath, and shall keep a record of the same upon the registration book, and may refuse to register such persons as may decline to take the oath aforesaid.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 9. - Illegal voting prohibited, penalty.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that any person voting illegally in any municipal primary or election of the City of Wrightsville, or falsely swearing in order to register, or otherwise violating any of the provisions of this Act, shall, on conviction, be punished as prescribed in section 1,065 of volume six of the Code of Georgia of 1910.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 10. - Mayor pro tem, vacancies.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that in case of a vacancy in the office of mayor or councilman by death, resignation or otherwise, an election to fill said vacancy shall be ordered by said council, to take place at such time as may be specified in said order, after public notice of the same by posting at the courthouse door in said city for the space of at least ten days before the date of said election. In case of vacancy in office of mayor or his disqualification or absence from the city, the same may be supplied by said board of councilmen by electing from their body a mayor pro tem, who shall perform all the duties of said office during said disqualification, or until the election and qualification of his successor as hereinbefore provided.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 11. - Candidate qualifications.
No person shall be eligible to be elected mayor or councilman unless such person is a qualified voter of said city at the time of his election and had, 15 days prior to the November election, qualified and applied to seek office with the city clerk.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 826), page 2885, § 1)
Sec. 12. - Mayor pro tem, compensation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that at its first regular meeting upon organization, the board of councilmen shall elect one of their number mayor pro tempore, and in case of the resignation, death, removal, disability or disqualification of the mayor, the mayor pro tem so elected shall, upon taking the oath as mayor, serve as mayor with all the rights, powers and duties of the mayor in all respects. If the services of the mayor pro tem shall continue as long as 30 days, he shall be compensated at the same rate and in the same manner that the mayor is paid, and such compensation shall be deducted from the salary of the mayor, unless the mayor's disqualification was from providential cause.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 13. - Clerk of council and city treasurer, compensation.
At its first regular meeting, the mayor and council of Wrightsville shall elect a clerk of council and a city treasurer. They shall take such oath of office as the mayor and council may prescribe and shall give bond in such manner as the mayor and council may deem sufficient to guarantee the faithful performance of their duties. The clerk shall be the clerical officer of the council and his duties shall be such as may be prescribed by the ordinances of the city and by the mayor and council. The compensation of the clerk and city treasurer shall be set solely in the discretion of the mayor and council, to be paid in equal monthly installments out of the funds of the city treasury.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 826), page 2885, § 2)
Sec. 14. - City attorney duties and salary.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that at its first regular meeting the mayor and council shall elect a city attorney whose term of office shall be one year, and whose duties shall be such as are required by the ordinances of the city, and who shall be paid such compensation as may be agreed between himself and the mayor and council. Whenever, in the judgment of the mayor and council, it shall become necessary to employ additional council to assist said attorney or to pay said attorney for additional work, authority so to do is hereby conferred upon said mayor and council.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 15. - City sexton.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the mayor and council shall have authority to elect a city sexton, to have the superintendence of and care of the city cemeteries, whose duties shall be such as are prescribed by the mayor and council and by the ordinances of said city. He shall receive such compensation as may be prescribed by the ordinances of said city, and by the mayor and council.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 16. - City physician.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council shall have authority to elect a city physician, whose duties shall be such as are required by the ordinances of said city and by the direction of the mayor and council, and whose compensation shall be fixed by the ordinances of the city and by the mayor and council.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 17. - Board of health.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council shall have power to elect three persons as a board of health in and for said city, said board to be composed of the chairman of the sanitary committee, who shall be ex-officio chairman of said board, the city physician, and one other reputable physician resident in said city. The duties, powers and compensation of said board of health shall be such as are fixed and prescribed in the ordinances of said City of Wrightsville.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 18. - Marshal, assistant, police and detectives.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that at its first regular meeting, the mayor and council shall elect one marshal who shall be ex-officio chief of the police, and one assistant, and as many additional policemen and detectives as, in the judgment of said mayor and council, may seem proper and necessary. Such officers shall be elected for a term of one year; shall be paid such compensation as may seem proper to the mayor and council; shall take such oath as the mayor and council may prescribe; shall give bond with good and sufficient security to be approved by the mayor and council in such amount as may be determined upon by said mayor and council for the faithful performance of their duties, and shall perform such duties as may be required of them by the ordinances of said city and the mayor and council. The mayor and council of said city shall have the right at any time, without trial, to suspend or remove any of said officers for breach of duties, or failure to perform duties or incapacity, and the mayor may, at any time during recess of council, suspend any of said officers for breach or neglect of duties for a period not to exceed ten days, without pay, and appoint a substitute therefor.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 19. - Municipal court.
There is hereby established a municipal court for the City of Wrightsville. Said municipal court shall preside over all cases involving alleged violations of the municipal ordinances and Code of Ordinances. Upon conviction, plea of guilty, or nolo contendere plea, the municipal court judge may impose a penalty of $1,000.00 or less, together with the costs of trial, imprisonment of up to six months, or any combination of fine and imprisonment that the judge deems appropriate.
The municipal court judge shall have all the powers, authority, duties and jurisdiction as provided by further enactment of the city council and as is consistent with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1953 Ga. Laws (Act No. 49), page 2171, § 4; 1962 Ga. Laws (Act No. 826), page 2885, § 3; 1968 Ga. Laws (Act No. 878), page 2720; 1973 Ga. Laws (Act No. 539), page 3138; Ord. of 7-16-2018(1), § 1)
Sec. 20. - Arresting without warrant.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that it shall be lawful for the marshal or any policeman of said city to arrest without warrant any person or persons within the corporate limits of said city who, at the time of said arrest or before that time, have been guilty of violating any of the ordinances of said city and to hold said persons so arrested until a hearing before the proper officers can be had. And to this end, said arresting officers are authorized to imprison and confine any person arrested by them in the city prison or in the common jail of Johnson County for a reasonable length of time. The marshal and policemen of said city are authorized to summon any or all bystanders to aid in the arrest of any person or persons violating any ordinances of said city or any laws of this state, and are authorized to the same extent as sheriffs of this state to execute warrants placed in their hands charging any person or persons with violating the criminal laws of this state, and the marshal and policemen of this city are authorized to arrest anywhere within the limits of this state any person charged with violating any of the ordinances of the City of Wrightsville; provided, that if said arrest is to be made outside the corporate limits of said city, same is to be done only in obedience to a written warrant signed by the mayor or the acting mayor.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 21. - Bond, forfeiture, compulsion of witnesses.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the marshal or any policeman shall release any person arrested for a violation of the ordinances of said city upon said person giving a bond with good security approved by the mayor or acting mayor of said city, conditioned to pay the City of Wrightsville an amount fixed by the mayor or acting mayor of said city; in the event such person arrested does not appear before the corporate authorities of the city at the time and place specified in the bond and from time to time until the principal in said bond is tried for the offense charged, and should such person fail to appear at the time and place recited in said bond, said bond may be forfeited before the municipal court of said City of Wrightsville as the mayor and council may, by proper ordinances, provide. Said mayor and council shall have authority to compel the attendance of witnesses, whether residents of said city or not, by fine or imprisonment, either or both, and to take bond to secure their attendance, and to forfeit such bond before the municipal court, and to pass ordinances to carry this provision into effect.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 22. - Nuisances, abatement.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council may, by ordinance, declare what shall be a nuisance in said city and, by ordinance, provide for the abatement of the same. The municipal court of said City of Wrightsville shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the mayor and council of said city in respect to the trial and abatement of all nuisances in said city.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 23. - Roads, condemnation, maintenance.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of said city shall have full and complete control of the streets and sidewalks, alleys and squares of said city, and shall have full power and authority to condemn property for the purpose of laying out new streets and alleys for widening, straightening or grading or in any way changing the street lines and sidewalks of said city. Said authority herein granted shall be exercised by said mayor and council of the City of Wrightsville in the manner provided by the general laws of this state now in force relating to the condemning of property for road purposes. The mayor and council shall have full authority to remove or cause to be removed any buildings, steps, fences, gates, posts or other obstructions or nuisances in the public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks or other public places of said city and to enforce the provisions of this section by appropriate ordinances; and may require and compel all persons residing in said city who may be subject to road duty to work on the streets and sidewalks of said city, not to exceed 20 days in each year, but may receive therefor a commutation fee from such persons not to exceed $4.00 per annum, and the mayor of said city shall have the same power and authority to punish defaulters as road commissioners of this state may have, or may hereafter have; provided, no defaulter shall have the right to relieve himself of any fine or penalty imposed for his failure to perform street duties after being returned as such defaulter, without the consent of the mayor.
The mayor and council of said city, in their discretion, [are authorized] to build, pave, repair, rebuild, repave, regrade, scarify, oil, topdress with a road binder or otherwise, any of the present or future streets, squares, public alleys and lanes, or any portion thereof, of said city whenever, in the judgment of said mayor and council, such improvement is necessary for the benefit of the public travel and maintenance of said present or future streets.
The mayor and council of said city, in their discretion, [are authorized] to build, pave, repair, regrade, repave, or otherwise improve or re-improve any of the present or future sidewalks, or any portion thereof, of said city when such improvements are necessary for public travel and maintenance of said sidewalks.
The mayor and council of said city, in their discretion, [are authorized] to lay guttering along any of the present or future streets, squares, public alleys and lanes, or any portion thereof, of said city when such improvements are necessary for the public travel and maintenance of said streets.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 390), page 1375, §§ 1—3)
Sec. 24. - Fire district.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of said city shall have authority to lay out a fire district in said city, and to enlarge and change its limits from time to time, and to pass all ordinances, rules, and regulations as may be necessary to enforce the same; to prescribe how chimneys and stove flues shall be constructed; to prescribe and determine out of what material buildings and all other improvements may be had; to order removal of all buildings and parts thereof as may be dangerous or likely to become so by reason of fire or heat of said city; and to cause the owner of the premises to change or remove the same at his own expense, which shall be collected as taxes are collected; and if any person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any building that is not in accordance with the laws and ordinances of said city, said mayor and council may order such building removed or altered; and if such firm, person or corporation shall fail to remove or alter such building after notice so to do, then the mayor and council shall have the authority to remove or alter the same at the expense of the owner, same to be collected as taxes are collected.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 25. - Taxes, licenses, collection.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council shall have full power and authority to assess, levy and collect taxes not exceeding 1¼ percent on the assessed value, ad valorem, of all property of every species, both real and personal, within the limits of said city, except church, school and fraternal organizations' property, at its market value on such day as the mayor and council may provide in each year, and also to levy and collect such special tax on trades, businesses, occupations, theatrical exhibitions or other performances exercised or carried on within the corporate limits of said city, including circuses and shows of all kinds, itinerant traders, peddlers, auctioneers and all other trades, games or occupations subject to special tax under the state law as they may deem proper. They shall also have the power to tax, license and regulate ten-pin alleys, billiards and pool tables, or to prohibit or remove the same for sufficient cause as they may deem necessary. For the purpose of enforcing the payment or collection of the taxes above enumerated, the mayor and council may prescribe such rules and regulations and impose such penalties for a violation of the same as they may deem necessary, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the state; and the mayor of said city is hereby vested with authority to issue executions for such fines or taxes as may become collectible in favor of said city, and the marshal may proceed to collect the same by levy and sale; in case of levy upon personal property, after ten days' advertisement at the city hall in said city, and in case of levy on real estate, after 30 days' notice by publication in the newspaper of said county designated by the mayor and council as the official organ of said city, said sale to be at the city hall on the first Monday of each month. The first Monday of each month is hereby designated as legal sale day in and for the City of Wrightsville. The mayor and council shall have the authority to designate some newspaper published in the County of Johnson as the official organ of said city.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1151, § 3)
Sec. 26. - Ordinances for business regulation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council are hereby given authority to pass such ordinances as may be necessary and proper in order to carry the foregoing section into effect; they are also empowered to classify businesses and to arrange the various businesses, trades and professions carried on in said city into such classes of subjects for taxation as they may deem just and proper.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1933 Ga. Laws (Act No. 236), page 1151, §§ 4, 5)
Sec. 27. - City tax assessor, duties, returns, objections to assessments.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that said mayor and council shall, at their first meeting in January of each year, elect three intelligent, discreet and upright persons, citizens and qualified voters of said city and owners of real estate therein, as city tax assessors, whose terms of office shall be one year. Said city tax assessors shall at any time be removed from office by the mayor and council, and all vacancies occurring from any cause may be filled by the mayor and council at any time. It shall be the duty of said tax assessors to assess the value of real estate and personal property in said city for the purpose of taxation by said city and it shall be their duty to examine the tax returns placed before them by the officers receiving the same and increase the valuation of all property thereof, when, in their judgment, the value placed thereon is too small. The mayor and council shall have the authority to prescribe rules for the government of said city tax assessors. Said assessors shall make returns of the assessments made by them to the mayor and council each year at such time as the mayor and council may, by ordinance, direct. If any taxpayer is dissatisfied with the assessment made of his property, either real or personal, by said assessors, have made their returns to the mayor and council, file written notice with the clerk of council of his dissatisfaction, and shall name in his said notice one arbitrator to represent him in fixing the value of his said property. Upon such notice being filed with the said clerk, it shall be his duty to notify the mayor of the fact, and it shall be the duty of the mayor to forthwith name an arbitrator to represent said city in fixing the value of the property in dispute, and the two arbitrators so elected shall be immediately notified by the clerk and shall forthwith select an umpire, and the board of arbitrators so constituted shall immediately proceed to give their award as to the value of such property, which award shall be returned to the city clerk and shall be final on both the city and taxpayer. The city assessors shall take oaths and receive such compensation as the mayor and council may prescribe; they shall have the power to require any taxpayer to furnish them with a list of all notes, accounts, mortgages, stocks, bonds and other securities and investments whenever, in their opinion, the same is necessary for a correct assessment, and to punish for contempt as may be prescribed by ordinance for failure or refusal to do so. The mayor and council shall have the power and authority to pass such ordinances as are required to effectuate this section.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 28. - Water and light commission.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council shall, at their first meeting in January of each year, elect three discreet and upright citizens, qualified voters and owners of real estate in said city, as a water and light commission in and for said city, whose terms of office shall be one year. Said water and light commission shall have full and complete charge of the operations and maintenance of the city lighting plant, waterworks plant, sewerage and ice plant. Said water and light commission, or any member thereof, shall at any time be removed from office by the mayor and council for good and sufficient cause, to be judged by said mayor and council, and all vacancies occurring from any cause may be filled by the mayor and council at any time. It shall be the duty of said water and light commission to have charge of the water, light, sewerage and ice plant in the operation thereof, and it shall be their duty to make a complete itemized written statement of their conduct of the same, showing a complete itemized statement of all receipts and disbursements, and submit the same to the mayor and council at each monthly meeting. The mayor and council shall have authority to pass such ordinances, rules and regulations as shall be necessary to put this section in operation, and to prescribe rules and methods for the collection of bills from consumers generally, and to prescribe the rentals, rates and prices of lights, water and ice under the advice of said light and water commission.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 29. - Waterworks, sewerage, lights and ice plant.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of Wrightsville shall have power and authority to establish a system of waterworks, sewerage, electric lights, ice plant, or any of them, in said city for the purpose of supplying its inhabitants and the city, as well as consumers generally, with water, sewerage, lights and ice, or any of them, and said mayor and council shall have the power to do any and all things necessary for such purposes; to contract with any person or persons for the purchase of land or premises to be used in connection therewith, whether within or without the city, and, if necessary, to condemn the same as hereinafter provided for; said mayor and council shall have the authority to make contracts for the purchase of plants, machinery, and etc.; and make contracts with the inhabitants of said city and with the consumers generally as to the furnishing of water, of sewerage, of lights, of ice or any of them. Said mayor and council shall also have full power and authority to grant the use of the streets and other public property to any person, firm or corporation that will undertake to furnish the city and the public with electric lights, water, sewerage, lights and ice, or any of them, as may, to said mayor and council, seem proper; provided, that the city shall not be bound by any such contract for a longer period than one year from the making thereof, unless said contract shall have first been approved by a majority vote of the qualified voters of said city at an election to be held for that purpose, of which at least four weeks' notice shall be given in the newspaper of said city by said mayor and council, which notice shall contain a substantial statement of the proposed contract as well as the time and place of the election, and which election shall be governed by the laws applicable to the regular election of city officers. The mayor and council of Wrightsville are hereby authorized and empowered to pass all ordinances, rules and by-laws necessary to carry out and effectuate the powers granted in this section.
The mayor and council of Wrightsville is hereby authorized and empowered by ordinance to grant local public utility franchises and the use of the streets and public places therefor; to contract to sell, and to sell upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, the complete electric and steam plants, distribution lines and all equipment, apparatus and property whatsoever, both real and personal, connected therewith and used as a part thereof, belonging to the said city, and to cease the operation of such utility and to convey good and clear title thereto by deed of the city executed by its mayor.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1925 Ga. Laws (Act No. 155), page 1578)
Sec. 30. - Power of condemnation.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council shall have full power and authority to contract for or to condemn any lands or premises within or without the city for the purpose of establishing and maintaining an electrical light plant, waterworks system, sewerage system and ice plant, or any of them, provided that if the right to condemn herein granted be exercised, all proceedings shall be had under the provisions of the general laws of this state relating to the same.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 31. - Power to impound animals, levy tax.
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of said City of Wrightsville shall have power to take up and impound any horses, mules, cattle, hogs or other livestock, including the running at large of domestic fowls, and to pass such ordinances an [as] may be deemed by them necessary for the regulation of stock within said city, as well as to levy such tax, as may seem property [proper] to them, upon dogs.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 32. - Tax returns, executions, etc.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of said city shall have power and authority to provide, by ordinance, when the taxes of said city shall be returned, and when the same shall be due, and in what length of time said taxes shall be paid when tax executions shall issue against defaulters, and to fix the penalty for the failure to return taxes and for the nonpayment of taxes, when due.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 33. - Clerk to issue execution, levy and sale.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that execution for any and all taxes, licenses or other demands of any nature due the city or its corporate authorities by any person, firm or corporation, or against any property subject thereto, shall be issued by the clerk of said city, signed by him, bear test in the name of the mayor and be directed to the marshal of said city and his deputies and to all and singular sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables of this state, commanding them that of any property belonging to the defendant against whom said execution is issued, or of certain property described in the execution, they make by levy and sale the amount due on the execution with all costs. The mayor and council shall, by ordinance, provide for the time and place of the method of conducting and all regulations governing the marshal's sales under said executions. The sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and constables of this state shall proceed in the same manner to levy and collect executions issued by the City of Wrightsville as they levy and collect executions issued from the respective courts of which they are an executive officer.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 34. - General power of mayor and council.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that authority is hereby expressly conferred on the mayor and council of said city to carry out every power granted to the City of Wrightsville in this Act by appropriate ordinance; and said mayor and council shall have generally the power and authority to make and pass such rules, by-laws and ordinances as shall appear to them necessary or requisite for preserving or promoting the peace, dignity, health, good order and welfare of said city.
Sec. 34A. - Wrightsville swimming pool and abattoir.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that the City of Wrightsville shall have the power and authority to construct, own, establish, maintain and operate a swimming pool and/or an abattoir for municipal purposes and for profit, and to prescribe, revise and collect rates, fees, tolls, rentals or charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished by such undertakings, or either of them.
Sec. 34B. - Pledge of revenues.
The City of Wrightsville shall have the power and authority to anticipate the collection of the revenues of such undertakings, or either of them, by pledging or hypothecating all or any part of such revenues for the purpose of financing in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, improvement, operation or maintenance of such undertakings, or either of them; provided no encumbrance, mortgage, or other pledge of property of the municipality is created thereby; and provided no debt on the credit of the municipality is thereby incurred in any manner, for any purpose.
Sec. 34C. - Contracts.
The City of Wrightsville shall have the power and authority to make all contracts; execute other instruments; and to do all things necessary or convenient in the exercise of the powers herein granted.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840; 1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 84), page 1408)
Sec. 35. - Other officers and employees, right to elect.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of said city shall have the right to elect such other municipal officers or employees, besides those herein specified, as may to them seem necessary and proper, providing therefor when necessary by ordinance, and in the same manner prescribing their duties and fixing their compensation.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 36. - Chain gang.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that the mayor and council of Wrightsville shall have the authority to organize within said city a city chain gang in which they are authorized to cause such prisoners of [or] offenders against the ordinances, rules and regulations of said city as may be by the mayor or acting mayor sentenced so to work, and council shall have authority to pass such ordinances, rules and regulations as they may deem proper for the management and maintenance of the same, provided they are not inconsistent with the general laws of this state.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 37. - Special licenses, seal of city.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all special licenses shall be issued by the city clerk under the seal of said city and all executions and writs directed to be issued by the mayor and council shall be done by the clerk of council, and as compensation, he shall receive the sum of $0.25 each for each license, execution and writ to be added as cost of the same, and the marshal or police of said city shall receive as compensation for the collection of all executions the sum of $0.30 each, except when levies are made, in which event he shall receive the same fees as are now allowed constables for like service in said state; that the mayor or acting mayor shall add to all fines imposed in the municipal court against the defendant the sum of $1.00 as cost, same to be collected and paid into the general funds as fines and forfeitures are required to be paid.
(1923 Ga. Laws (Act No. 571), page 840)
Sec. 38. - Repeal.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid that all laws or parts of laws in conflict with this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE II. - ZONING AND PLANNING[2]
Be it enacted and the same is hereby enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, that from and after the passage of this Act, the governing authorities of the City of Wrightsville, Georgia, shall have the authority to pass zoning and planning laws whereby said city may be zoned or districted for various uses and other or different uses prohibited therein, and said governing authorities shall have the power to regulate the use for which said zones or districts may be set apart and to regulate the plans for developments and improvement of real estate therein.
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1939 Ga. Laws (Act No. 126), page 1409. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation.
