ARTICLE 1. - ENACTMENT, TITLE, REPEAL, INTENT, RELATED STANDARDS AND RELATED ORDINANCES

Sec. 1.1. - Enactment.
Be it ordained by the board of commissioners of Meriwether County, Georgia that the zoning ordinance adopted on April 12, 2006 is hereby repealed in its entirety and replaced by this zoning ordinance which will be set out as appendix A to the Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, § 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 1.2. - Title.
This ordinance shall be titled and referred to as the Zoning Ordinance of Meriwether County, Georgia.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, § 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 1.3. - Reserved.
Sec. 1.4. - Intent.
It is the intent of this zoning ordinance, to establish an ordinance for the unincorporated Meriwether County, Georgia, that provides for the following: Regulating the location, height, bulk and size of buildings and other structures; the use of buildings and land for business, industry, residences, public activities and other purposes; and for dividing the unincorporated area into districts for such purposes and establishing boundaries; providing for a planning commission and board of zoning appeals, defining its power and duties; the method of administration, amendment and enforcement; prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions; and repealing conflicting resolutions.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, § 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 1.5. - Related standards.
It is intended for this ordinance to be used in conjunction with other uniform development standards that have been adopted or otherwise implemented in specific industries and/or fields that may be impacted by this ordinance. Specifically, this ordinance refers to the state minimum standards set out in section 6-1 of the Meriwether County Code.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, § 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 1.6. - Related ordinances, resolutions and regulations.
It is intended for this ordinance to be used in conjunction with related ordinances, resolutions and regulations adopted by Meriwether County that are not in conflict with this ordinance or have been otherwise repealed by this ordinance. Specifically, this ordinance refers to the following ordinances, resolutions and regulations of Meriwether County, Georgia, that must be considered, referred to, and complied with in addition to the specific provisions of this ordinance:
(1)
Chapter 6, Buildings and Building Regulations, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(2)
Chapter 12, Flood Damage Prevention, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(3)
Chapter 20, Parks and Recreation, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(4)
Chapter 22, Roads and Bridges, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(5)
Chapter 24, Signs, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(6)
Chapter 10, Environment Protection, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(7)
Chapter 28, Taxation, Licenses and Business Regulations, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County;
(8)
Appendix B, Subdivision Regulations, Code of Ordinances, Meriwether County; and
(9)
Meriwether County Joint Comprehensive Plan.
It is not intended for this list of related ordinances, resolutions, and regulations to be complete and otherwise all-inclusive. Any ordinances, resolutions and regulations that have been adopted that have been inadvertently omitted from this list or any such ordinances, resolutions and regulations that may be adopted and/or implemented in the future should also be considered, referred to and complied with in conjunction with the provisions set forth in this ordinance.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, § 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
