ARTICLE 2. - PURPOSE

Sec. 2.1. - Purpose.
The purpose of this ordinance is to establish minimum standards for the use of land and improvements in unincorporated Meriwether County, Georgia. The zoning regulations and districts herein established are designed to:
(1)
Lessen congestion in the streets;
(2)
Provide safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
(3)
Promote health, and general welfare;
(4)
Provide adequate light and air;
(5)
Avoid undue concentration of the population;
(6)
Provide transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
(7)
Conserve the value of economy;
(8)
Encourage the most appropriate use of land and structures;
(9)
Promote quality of life for all citizens; and
(10)
Provide consistency with the future land use plan referenced in the land use element of the Meriwether County Comprehensive Plan.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, ยง 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 2.2. - Minimum standards.
The requirements of these regulations are minimum permissible standards, and it is expected that developers and the respective decision-making authority will normally strive for quality developments that will exceed these minimum requirements.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, ยง 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 2.3. - Comprehensive plan.
The comprehensive plan adopted by resolution of the county commission of Meriwether County is established as the official policy of the county concerning land uses. The incorporated areas of the county are divided into land use categories consistent with the future land use map in the land use element of the comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan does not alter or affect the existing zoning districts in the county, does not effectuate an amendment to the official zoning maps, and does not by itself permit or prohibit any existing land uses. The Meriwether County Planning Commission shall examine the future land use map and zoning changes approved during the year on an annual basis to ensure consistency between the two maps.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, ยง 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
Sec. 2.4. - Annual update.
The land use element of the comprehensive plan shall be updated once each year. This update shall be used to identify current uses of land, emerging growth patterns and any significant change in land use policy as identified by the future land use map of the comprehensive plan. This update shall also be used as policy in the county's consideration of proposed amendments to the official Meriwether County Zoning District Map or text of the zoning ordinance. All amendments to the Meriwether County Comprehensive Plan shall be in accordance with the minimum planning standards and procedures of the Georgia Planning Act.
( Ord. No. 2020-04, ยง 1(Exh. A), 8-25-2020 )
