Chapter 8 - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).

Sec. 8-1. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the term "emergency management" shall mean the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military forces, state and federal agencies are primarily responsible. The term "emergency management" means to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disaster of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare and social services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
(Code 1991, § 6-1; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 1)
Sec. 8-2. - County agency; director; duties.
There is hereby established the county emergency management agency. The board of commissioners shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management (emergency management coordinator) for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the board of commissioners on matters pertaining to civil preparedness.
(2)
To assist county officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop in conjunction with county and city departments and agencies the county emergency operations plan for emergency functions set forth in section 8-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval and thence to the director of the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the county civil preparedness and disaster program including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To render reports such as financial and daily activity as required by the board of commissioners in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
To designate with the authority of the board of commissioners, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency under the supervision of the board of commissioners.
(Code 1991, § 6-2; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 2)
Sec. 8-3. - County organization.
(a)
The county emergency management organization shall be established around existing county and city departments and agencies, and the emergency functions listed in section 8-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department/Agency Functions
Board of commissioners and city mayors Direction and control
County administrator Administrative services
Public information
County sheriff's department Communications and warning
Evacuation
Police services
County fire department Fire control
County superintendent of schools, office of Transportation services
Food services
EMS ambulance First aid and emergency transportation
Public works director Engineering
Resources management
Utilities
Petroleum and solid fuel
County department of family and children services Sheltering and temporary housing
Social services
County memorial hospital Health and medical services
County emergency management agency Search, rescue and recovery
Hazardous materials control
Radiological protection
Training
State military support
Specific hazards
Damage assessment and reporting
Public property assistance
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan and SOP for their assigned emergency function. Such plans and SOPs will be submitted through the emergency management director to the board of commissioners and governing officials for approval.
(Code 1991, § 6-3; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 3)
Sec. 8-4. - Emergency powers/police powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairperson of the board of commissioners, or in his absence, a legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1991, § 6-4; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 4)
Sec. 8-5. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and the county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Code 1991, § 6-5; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 5)
Sec. 8-6. - Penalties.
Any violation of any provision of this article, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable in accordance with section 1-11.
(Code 1991, § 6-6; Res. of 2-12-1986, § 6)
Sec. 8-7. - Registration of building and repair services during a state of emergency.
(a)
Building contractor registration required. No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of the county, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this section.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building contractor means any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair, renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto, and that is licensed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 43-41-6.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be doing business subject to the requirements of this section if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated area of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making or improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including, but not limited to, the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principal office.
State of emergency is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(7) as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary assistance by the state to supplement the efforts and available resources of the several localities and relief organizations in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period means a period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(c)
Registration; certification. All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of the county during a state of emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the department of community development. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county board of commissioners with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(d)
Registration fees. Building contractor registration fees shall be set from time to time by action of the board of commissioners and set out in the county consolidated fee schedule. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(e)
Transferability. Each certification issued under this section is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(f)
Display of registration certification. Each certification issued hereunder shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(g)
Revocation; suspension. Each certification granted under this section is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county board of commissioners hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this section or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Code 1991, § 6-7; Ord. No. 01-04, §§ 1—8, 5-22-2001)
Sec. 8-8. - Suspension of portions of the Code and other formalities during a state of emergency.
(a)
Authority to waive procedures and fee structures.
(1)
Meetings. Upon proclamation by the appropriate state official of an emergency or disaster of manmade or natural causes or enemy attack impending on or affecting the state or the United States, the affairs and business of the county may be conducted at places other than the regular or usual place thereof, within or outside of the county, when it is not prudent, expedient or possible to conduct business at the regular location. When such meetings occur outside of the county, all actions taken by the local governing body shall be as valid and binding as if performed within the county. Such meetings may be called by the presiding officer or any two members of the governing body without regard to or compliance with time consuming procedures and formalities otherwise required by law.
(2)
Purchasing and public works contracts. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon determination by the county board of commissioners or its designee of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may contract for public works without letting such contract out to the lowest, responsible bidder and without advertising and posting notification of such contract for four weeks; provided, however, that any public works contract entered into pursuant to this subsection shall be entered on the minutes of the county as soon as practical and the nature of the emergency described therein.
(3)
Code enforcement. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily suspend the enforcement of this Code, or any portion thereof, where:
a.
The emergency or disaster is of such nature that immediate action outside the Code is required;
b.
Such suspension is consistent with the protection of the public health, safety and welfare; and
c.
Such suspension is not inconsistent with any federal or state statutes or regulations.
(4)
Fees. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may temporarily reduce or suspend any permit fees, application fees or other rate structures as necessary to encourage the rebuilding of the area impacted by the disaster or emergency.
(5)
Temporary dwellings. Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may issue temporary mobile home, trailer, recreational vehicle or other temporary dwelling structures or parks in any zoning district while the primary dwelling is being repaired, provided that such temporary dwellings or parks are designed by an engineer and plans are approved by the county health department and community development department. The temporary permit shall not exceed three months in duration. In the case of continuing hardship and in the discretion of the board of commissioners or its designee, the permit may be extended for a period up to an additional six months. Upon expiration of the temporary permit or an extension, the temporary dwelling shall be removed.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fees means any fee or rate charged by the county for building permits, land disturbance permits, zoning applications, special land use permits, temporary land use permits, and other fees relating to the reconstruction, repair and clean-up of areas impacted by the disaster or emergency. The term "fees" shall not include those fees collected by the county on behalf of the federal or state government or those fees charged by the county pursuant to a federal or state statute or regulation.
(Code 1991, § 6-8; Ord. No. 01-05, §§ 1, 2, 5-22-2001)
Sec. 8-9. - Imposition of curfews during times of emergency or disaster.
(a)
Institution of curfew.
(1)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county board of commissioners, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county board of commissioners, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(2)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(3)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Curfew means a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this section from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, the term "exempt individuals" includes those individuals engaged in the provision of designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the board of commissioners, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to section 8-7, performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
(c)
Prohibition. It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated Meriwether County during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Code 1991, § 6-9; Ord. No. 01-06, §§ 1—3, 5-22-2001)
Sec. 8-10. - Overcharging for goods, materials, services and housing during a state of emergency prohibited.
(a)
Overcharging prohibited. In order to preserve, protect, or sustain the life, health, or safety of persons or their property, it shall be unlawful during the duration of a state of emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person, firm, or corporation located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services or housing sold within the county.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging means charging prices for goods, materials, services, or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or in applicable cases substantially in excess of the supplier's or provider's costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the goods, materials, services, or housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in costs to the supplier directly attributable to higher costs of materials, supplies, and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
(Code 1991, § 6-10; Ord. No. 01-07, §§ 1, 2, 5-22-2001)
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-2 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70; authority to adopt temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19).
