ARTICLE VI. - INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[12]

Footnotes:
--- (12) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1967 Ga. Laws (Res. 1), page 901 (Continued 1986 Ga. Laws, 3840), which added the following at the end of Ga. Const. art. VII, § V, ¶ 1. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, headings and catchlines have been made uniform, and expression of numbers in text as appears in the Code of Ordinances has been used. A consistent scheme of capitalization has also been used. Additions for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Industrial development authority.
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Meriwether County to be known as the Meriwether County Industrial Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as the authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Meriwether County and a public corporation.
B.
The authority shall consist of five members who shall serve for a term of four years each and who shall be eligible for reappointment. The members shall be appointed by a majority of the commissioners of roads and revenues of Meriwether County, who shall be themselves eligible to serve, and the members may be residents of any area of Meriwether County. The first members of the authority shall be appointed for terms of: two for two years, two for three years and one for four years, and until their successors are elected and qualified. The board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Meriwether County shall designate the terms of office of the first members when making the appointment. Thereafter, the terms of office for all members shall be for four years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Meriwether County. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any manner. No vacancy shall impair the power of the authority to act.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Meriwether County.
D.
The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To buy, acquire, develop, improve, own, operate, maintain, sell, lease as lessor and lessee, and mortgage land, buildings and property of all kinds within the limits of Meriwether County;
(2)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(3)
To grant, loan and lease without adequate consideration or without any consideration and with and without security, any of its funds and property to private persons and corporations operating or promising to operate any industrial plant or establishment within Meriwether County which in the judgment of the authority will be a benefit to the people of said county. The provisions of this clause shall not be construed to limit any other power of the authority;
(4)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates therefor, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(5)
To contract with Meriwether County and other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(6)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(7)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industry, agriculture trade, and commerce and the facilities therefor in Meriwether County, and to make long-range plans therefor, to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end, to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Meriwether County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building or building under construction and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, completing of construction, furnishing and equipping of such building. No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than 30 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
(8)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in many manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(9)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
(10)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
E.
The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Meriwether County.
F.
The authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the State of Georgia and the officers, agents and employees of the authority when in performance of the work of the authority, shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents and employees of the State of Georgia when in performance of their public duties or work of the state. The authority may be sued the same as private corporations on any contractual obligations of the authority.
G.
The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services [on behalf] of the authority.
H.
In addition to the purposes for which revenue bonds are now permitted by this constitution to be issued, the authority, with the consent of the board of commissioners of roads and revenues of Meriwether County, to carry out public purposes of this amendment is hereby authorized to issue revenue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturity at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as heretofore or hereafter amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Charter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any true agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure, or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any terms or condition under which such bonds are issued.
I.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
J.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare of Meriwether County and its citizens, industry, agriculture and trade within the County of Meriwether, and making long-range plans for such development and expansion and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
K.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the governor and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within 30 days after such proclamation.
L.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Meriwether County, and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within Meriwether County. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond the limits of Meriwether County.
M.
There shall be no limitations upon the amount of debt which the authority may incur, but no debt created by the authority shall be a debt of Meriwether County or the state.
N.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this amendment shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of this amendment, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional was not originally a part hereof.
Editor's note— Any provisions in the Act regarding the jurat, affidavit or notice of publication, publication date, proposed ballot text, or the adoption or effective date of the ordinance or Act have been omitted.
