Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Jekyll Island-State Park Authority generally, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-230 et seq.; Jekyll Island Citizens Resource Council, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-233.1 et seq.; merit system for Jekyll Island-State Park Authority, O.C.G.A. § 47-2-313.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Name and description.
This body corporate and politic, an instrumentality and public corporation of the state, shall be named the "Jekyll Island-State Park Authority." The Jekyll-Island-State Park Authority shall be hereafter referred to in this Code as the "authority."
(Code 1981, § 2-101)
State Law reference— Creation of authority, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-232.
Sec. 2-2. - Rules and ordinances.
The authority shall promulgate such rules, regulations, and ordinances for the government of the island as the authority may deem necessary or expedient.
(Code 1981, § 2-102)
State Law reference— Powers of Jekyll Island-State Park Authority, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-235; adoption and enforcement of ordinances and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 12-236.1; authority may repeal, alter or amend its ordinances and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-236.2.
Sec. 2-3. - Conflicts.
If a conflict shall arise between this Code and the constitution or laws of the United States or the constitution or laws of the state, this Code shall yield to such Constitution or laws.
(Code 1981, § 2-103)
Sec. 2-4. - Offices.
The authority, may establish, within the state, its principal office and such other offices as its members may from time to time authorize and direct.
(Code 1981, § 2-104)
Sec. 2-5. - Members.
The membership of the authority shall be as established pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-3-233.
(1)
The business and affairs of the authority shall be governed by rules and policy established by its members to the full extent of the powers and authority conferred on them by law.
(2)
The authority shall establish the compensation of all nonmember officers.
(3)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this section, the authority has in this chapter delegated and may, by ordinance or other action, delegate to one or more of its committees, officers, agents, or employees such powers and duties as it may deem proper; provided, however, that any such delegation shall not be deemed to be in derogation of any of the authority's powers.
(4)
No vacancy in the authority membership shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-105)
Sec. 2-6. - Legal counsel.
The legal counsel for the authority shall be as provided by law.
(Code 1981, § 2-106)
Sec. 2-7. - Bonds and indemnities.
All officers, agents and employees of the authority shall furnish such bonds and indemnities as required by the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-107)
Sec. 2-8. - Addresses.
(a)
All notices and written material required by this Code to be given to any member serving ex officio shall be sent to such member at the official address of the office qualifying said member for membership on the authority and to such other address as said members ex officio shall request in writing.
(b)
All notices and written material required by this Code to be given to any member appointed to membership in accordance with applicable law shall be sent to such address as such member so appointed shall request in writing.
(Code 1981, § 2-108)
Sec. 2-9. - Seal.
The seal of the authority shall have inscribed thereon the words "Jekyll Island-State Park Authority" between two concentric circles and the words "Georgia" and "Seal" in the center thereof, or such other configuration as the authority shall deem appropriate.
(Code 1981, § 2-109)
Sec. 2-10. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the authority shall begin on July 1 in each year and end on June 30 of each succeeding year.
(Code 1981, § 2-110)
Secs. 2-11—2-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS

Sec. 2-39. - Named officers.
The officers of the authority shall consist of a chairperson, who shall be selected from among the members appointed by the governor, vice-chairperson, secretary, treasurer and such other officers, including, but not limited to, an executive director, as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the authority for the efficient conduct of its business and affairs.
(Code 1981, § 2-201)
Sec. 2-40. - Qualifications for office.
The chairperson and the vice-chairperson must be members of the authority. The executive director and any other officer employed by the authority must not be members of the authority. All other offices may be held by either members of the authority or by nonmembers, as the authority shall elect. The offices of secretary and treasurer may be held by one person. No two other offices shall be held by one person.
(Code 1981, § 2-202)
Sec. 2-41. - Voting.
No nonmember officer shall be entitled to vote at meetings of the authority or otherwise upon any action of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-203)
Sec. 2-42. - Election of officers.
The vice-chairperson, secretary and treasurer of the authority shall be elected by the authority at its annual meeting and shall serve during the year for which they are elected or until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Code 1981, § 2-204)
Sec. 2-43. - Resignation or discharge from office.
Any officer, elected, appointed or employed by the authority, may resign or may be removed from office by the authority, or as otherwise provided in this chapter, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person so removed.
(Code 1981, § 2-205)
Sec. 2-44. - Abolition of offices.
The authority may abolish any office not provided by statute. Any such abolition shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person holding such office at the time of the abolition thereof.
(Code 1981, § 2-206)
Sec. 2-45. - Vacancies.
A vacancy in any authority member office whether by reason of death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, shall be filled by the authority for the unexpired term thereof as provided by law. A vacancy in any authority nonmember office, whether by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, may be filled by the authority unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 2-207)
Sec. 2-46. - Duties of executive director.
The authority shall employ a fulltime executive director to execute the policy decisions of the authority and to provide continuing professional management of the day-to-day activities of the authority. The executive director shall retain, employ, dismiss and determine the compensation of all employees of the authority and shall be the fiscal officer of the authority. All employees of the authority shall be subject to the direction and administration of the executive director. Any dismissal of an employee of the authority shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person dismissed. The executive director shall have such other and further powers, duties and responsibilities as the authority may direct.
(Code 1981, § 2-208)
State Law reference— Authority shall employ executive director, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-233(g).
Sec. 2-47. - Duties of chairperson.
The chairperson shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the authority;
(2)
Have such general powers and responsibilities as may be delegated to him by the authority;
(3)
Perform or cause to be performed, the duties incident to such general powers and responsibilities; and
(4)
Execute (sign, seal and deliver), in the name of the authority all written instruments of every kind and character which the authority or the law has authorized him to execute.
(Code 1981, § 2-209)
Sec. 2-48. - Duties of vice-chairperson.
The vice-chairperson, in the absence or disability of the chairperson, shall exercise the powers and perform the duties of the chairperson. He shall in addition exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-210)
Sec. 2-49. - Duties of secretary.
The secretary shall be responsible for the recording of votes and the preparing and keeping of written minutes of all authority meetings. The secretary shall have custody of the book of minutes and the seal of the authority and shall attest and affix the authority seal to, such documents as the authority or the chairperson may direct or as the law may require. The secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings as provided for by this chapter, and shall perform such duties incident to the office of secretary as the authority may direct. Should the secretary fail or refuse to give notice of any meeting called in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the chairperson, the vice-chairperson when he is acting in the place of the chairperson, or the authority members calling such meeting shall then give the notice required by article III of this chapter.
(Code 1981, § 2-211)
Sec. 2-50. - Duties of treasurer.
The treasurer shall perform such duties incident to the office of treasurer as the authority may direct.
(Code 1981, § 2-212)
Secs. 2-51—2-73. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MEETINGS

Sec. 2-74. - Annual meetings.
An annual meeting of the authority shall be held during the month of August of each year on a day and at a time and place designated by the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-301)
Sec. 2-75. - Regular meetings.
The authority may provide for regularly held meetings at such times, dates and places within the state as it may deem necessary or convenient for the handling of its business and affairs.
(Code 1981, § 2-302)
Sec. 2-76. - Special meetings.
Special meetings of the authority may be called by the chairperson, the vice-chairperson, or by any five members of the authority acting together. Such meetings shall be held on the date and at the time and place within the state as the person or persons authorized to call the special meeting may direct.
(Code 1981, § 2-303)
Sec. 2-77. - Meetings by speaker telephone.
Any authority member who cannot personally attend a meeting of the authority may participate in such meeting by speaker telephone communication. The executive director of the authority shall be given 24 hours' notice that any such member of the authority desires to participate in a meeting by speaker telephone communication. The speaker telephone shall be arranged and connected at such meeting so that all persons in the room where the meeting is held and the authority member or members communicating by speaker telephone can hear and speak to each other. The authority member or members participating in a meeting of the authority by speaker telephone communication shall be counted present at the meeting for all purposes.
(Ord. of 3-10-1986, § 2-304)
Sec. 2-78. - Notice.
At least five calendar days notice in writing shall be given to each member of the authority, the executive director and legal counsel respecting the holding of a regular meeting. Such notice may be given in person, by mail or by telegram. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, correctly addressed and bearing sufficient postage. If by telegram, such notice shall be deemed to be given when placed with the telegraph company and properly addressed. Notice in writing of special meetings shall be given to each member of the authority, the executive director and legal counsel either in person, by mail, or by telegram, provided that such notice shall in all cases be given such reasonable time in advance of the holding of the special meeting as the exigencies of the situation may permit. Notice by mail or telegram of a special meeting shall be deemed to be given when the same is given in conformity with the provisions of this chapter governing the giving of notice of regular meetings. The attendance of a person entitled to notice at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of that meeting unless such person declares at the outset of such meeting that he is present for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business. The business to be transacted at, and the purpose of, a regular or special meeting shall be specified in writing and shall be part of the notice of such meeting. Notice of annual meetings shall be given in conformity with the notice requirements for regular meetings.
(Code 1981, § 2-304; Ord. of 3-10-1986)
Sec. 2-79. - Quorum.
At all meetings of the authority, five members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of its business and affairs.
(Code 1981, § 2-305; Ord. of 3-10-1986)
Sec. 2-80. - Voting.
In voting, each member of the authority present at a meeting shall have one vote. The action taken by a majority of the membership of the authority at a meeting, at which there is a quorum, shall constitute an action of the authority. A member of the authority present at a meeting of the authority at which an action is taken shall be presumed to have voted affirmatively for such action unless his negative vote shall have been audibly registered and entered in the minutes of the meeting.
(Code 1981, § 2-306; Ord. of 3-10-1986)
Sec. 2-81. - Minutes.
Accurate written minutes shall be kept recording the official actions and proceedings at any meeting of the authority, and a copy of said minutes shall be delivered in person or by mail to each member of the authority, the executive director and legal counsel within ten calendar days following the meeting. The official minutes of an authority meeting shall be approved by the authority at the next regular meeting of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-307; Ord. of 3-10-1986)
Secs. 2-82—2-105. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - COMMITTEES

Sec. 2-106. - Executive committee.
The authority may designate by written resolution an executive committee which shall be composed of the chairperson, vice-chairperson, and secretary of the authority. The officers of the executive committee shall consist of a chairperson, vice-chairperson and secretary, which offices shall be held by the chairperson, vice-chairperson and the secretary of the authority, respectively. Notice of meetings of the executive committee shall be given in conformity with notice requirements for regular meetings of the authority. Three members of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum, and three affirmative member votes shall be necessary for an action of the executive committee. All actions of the executive committee shall only be of an advisory nature to the authority and shall be reported by the secretary of the executive committee by written minutes to the authority at the meeting of the authority next succeeding the meeting of the executive committee. The executive committee shall perform such duties, and shall have only such responsibilities and powers, as the authority may direct by written resolution consistent with applicable law.
(Code 1981, § 2-401)
Sec. 2-107. - Other committees.
The chairperson of the authority may designate such other permanent or temporary committees as the chairperson may deem necessary for the likewise purpose of advisory action only.
(Code 1981, § 2-402)
Secs. 2-108—2-157. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - REVENUE AND FINANCE[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority members accountable as trustees, financial and recordkeeping requirements, audit, O.C.G.A. § 12-2-234(a).

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-158. - Contractual power.
In addition to the powers herein previously delegated, the authority may delegate to the executive committee, chairperson, or any other officer, agent or employee the power to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-501)
Sec. 2-159. - Debt.
No debt shall be contracted or assumed on behalf of the authority and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless specifically authorized by the authority in accordance with applicable law.
(Code 1981, § 2-502)
State Law reference— Revenue bonds, O.C.G.A. § 12-3-252 et seq.
Sec. 2-160. - Checks.
Unless otherwise provided by law, all checks, drafts, or other orders for the payment of money, notes, or other evidence of indebtedness, authorized by the authority, shall be signed by the chairperson, executive director or other authorized (by the authority) officer, member, employee or agent.
(Code 1981, § 2-503)
Sec. 2-161. - Deposits.
All funds, securities, and monies of the authority shall be deposited in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the authority shall select in accordance with applicable law.
(Code 1981, § 2-504)
Sec. 2-162. - Audit.
The authority shall submit all books and fiscal records of all receipts, income and expenditures of every kind, together with a proper statement of the authority's financial position, to the state auditor, in his official capacity, for inspection and auditing at least once during each fiscal year in accordance with applicable law. The authority may cause such other audits to be made at such times as it may determine to be in the best interest of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 2-505)
Secs. 2-163—2-192. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - TAXATION

Sec. 2-193. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases for the purposes of this division and, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise, are defined as follows:
Dealer means every person licensed by the authority to engage in the business of innkeeping on the island and every person licensed by the authority as a broker who furnished for value to the public any room, lodging or accommodations for value.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or other group or combination acting as a unit, except the authority and further except the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the authority is without power to impose the tax provided herein.
Report means any report filed or required to be filed as provided in this division.
Tax means the tax imposed by this division.
Taxable period means a calendar month.
Unit of accommodation means any house, cabin, cottage, trailer, trailer site, tent, tent site, apartment, suite and any other accommodations consisting of other than a single room, which accommodations are furnished as units and for which charges are assessed on per unit bases.
(Code 1981, § 3-101)
Sec. 2-194. - Places of lodging tax.
(a)
Imposition and rate of tax. There is hereby imposed upon every furnishing for value to a person of any room or other unit of accommodation by every dealer, a tax in accordance with the rate set by Glynn County for such furnishing, as of the time such charge is made, whether or not collected at such time, for each room or other unit of accommodation furnished to the public.
(b)
Exemptions. The tax imposed by subsection (a) of this section shall not be levied or collected upon the furnishing of any room or other unit of accommodation where such room or other unit of accommodation is contracted, prior to occupancy of the same, to be occupied for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days by the same occupants; nor shall said tax be levied upon the furnishing of meeting rooms or units, provided that such meeting room or units are those normally and usually furnished for the purposes of meetings or other gatherings and are not those rooms or units designed and usually furnished for the purpose of providing a temporary dwelling. No tax shall be levied as provided in subsection (a) of this section upon the furnishing of any room or other unit of accommodation for a period of one or more days for use by state or local government officials or employees when traveling on official business.
(c)
Persons liable for the tax. Every dealer furnishing any room or unit of accommodation to any person for value shall be liable for the tax thereon and for the collection, reporting and remittance thereof to the authority.
(d)
Filing of reports. Every dealer liable for the tax imposed by subsection (a) of this section shall, on or before the 15th day of each calendar month, report to the authority, on forms furnished by the authority or on forms prepared by the reporting dealer and disclosing the same information, the following:
(1)
The total number of rooms or other units of accommodation furnished during the preceding taxable period (i.e., the preceding calendar month), minus:
a.
The number of rooms or other units of accommodation furnished to the same occupant or occupants for a period exceeding 30 consecutive calendar days pursuant to a contract (entered into prior to or simultaneous with the commencement of such occupancy) to rent said rooms or units of accommodation for such period;
b.
The number of meetings rooms furnished; and
c.
The number of rooms or other units of accommodation furnished for a period of one or more days for use by the state's or local governments' officials or employees when traveling on official business;
(2)
The total charges therefor, whether or not such charges have then been collected by the reporting dealer (excluding charges for telephone, food and beverage service, if any);
(3)
The tax due and payable to the authority; and
(4)
Such other information as may be required by the authority.
All such reports shall be made under oath and shall be signed by the reporting dealer or said dealer's agent, if any.
(e)
Remittance of the tax. Every dealer liable for the tax imposed by subsection (a) of this section shall remit by the 15th day of each calendar month to the authority, with the report prepared and submitted pursuant to subsection (d) of this section, the tax shown due on said report for the preceding calendar month. Failure to so remit such tax shall cause said tax to become delinquent.
(f)
Compensation of dealers. For the purpose of compensating the dealers for the reporting and remittance of the tax levied by this division, each such dealer shall be allowed three percent of the amount of the tax due and accounted for and remitted to the authority in the form of a deduction in submitting said dealer's report and paying the amount due as shown thereon; provided the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(g)
Extensions; failures; deficiencies. The authority, for good cause may extend, for not to exceed 30 days, the time for making any reports required under the provisions of division.
(h)
Penalties and interest. When any dealer shall fail to make any report to pay the full amount of the tax required by this division, there shall be imposed a specific penalty to be added to the tax due in the amount in accordance with the rate set by the State of Georgia; provided, however, if such failure is due to providential cause shown to the satisfaction of the authority in an affidavit attached to the report and remittance within ten days of the due date, such reports may be accepted exclusive of penalties and interest. In the case of a report which is deemed by the authority to be false or fraudulent or the failure to file a report, where, in the determination of the authority, willful intent exists to defraud the authority of any tax due under this division, a specific penalty of 50 percent of the tax determined to be due as hereinbelow provided shall be assessed. When any dealer fails to remit the tax, or any portion thereof on or before the day when such tax shall be required by this division to be paid, there shall be added to the amount due interest thereon at the rate in accordance with the rate set by the State of Georgia from the date due until the date paid, unless otherwise herein provided. All penalties and interest imposed by this division shall be payable and collectible by the authority in the manner as if they were a part of the tax imposed.
(i)
Records. Every dealer required to make a report and pay any tax under this division, shall keep and preserve suitable records of the furnishing of rooms and/or units of accommodations, including such books of account as shall be necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder, and such other information relative to such furnishing as may be required by the authority. All such books and records shall be kept and preserved for a period of five years from the date of the tax due upon any furnishing and all such books and records shall be open to examination by the authority, its authorized agents and employees at all reasonable hours.
(j)
Incorrect reports; failure to make reports; failure to pay tax; procedure. If any dealer required hereunder to file a report and pay the tax imposed hereby shall, for any taxable period, file a report which the authority has reason to believe is an incorrect report or shall fail to file a report or fail to pay the tax imposed hereby or any portion thereof, the authority shall, within a reasonable time following the date upon which, such report and tax was due, give written notice to such dealer of such failure and request such dealer to present to the authority at the authority's offices at a time designated in said notice all books, records, papers, and other information available to the dealer (hereinafter collectively referred to as "records") relating to such taxable period as the authority may reasonable require. Such dealer (or his agent under the provisions of subsection (m) of this section) may present such records and additional information, if any requested, by mail or in person and shall, at the time of such presentation, have full opportunity to present any other information he desires on the matter of his correct liability under this division. Based upon the examination of such records and additional information, or, in the event that such dealer shall have failed or refused to present the requested records and/or additional information, the authority is hereby authorized and required to make an assessment for the tax due, based upon such information as shall be available to the authority, and any such assessment shall be deemed prima facie correct. Notice of an assessment pursuant to this division shall be given in writing to such dealer by the authority and the tax assessed, together with penalties and interest thereon, if any, shall be due and payable to the authority immediately upon service of said notice.
(k)
Remedies, collection of tax. The authority is hereby authorized to invoke such process and to avail itself of any and all such remedies as may now or hereafter be authorized by law to enforce this division and speedily to secure its revenues. Upon the failure of any dealer, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, pursuant to subsection (j) of this section to pay any tax assessed hereunder, the authority may proceed to collect the tax by any such authorized remedies, including but not limited to, execution and levy. Payment of any such assessment is also hereby made a prerequisite to the renewal of the dealer's innkeeper's or broker's license.
(l)
Claim for refund. Any dealer who shall allege that any portion of tax collected hereunder has been erroneously paid or illegally collected may file a claim for refund with the authority, setting forth the amount alleged to have been paid erroneously or illegally or collected by the authority, a statement of the grounds upon which the dealer relies in making such claim, and any other information which the dealer may deem pertinent to such claim. If the dealer desires a hearing on the claim for refund, he shall so specify in the claim, and the authority shall provide a hearing within a reasonable time and shall appoint an officer of the authority to hear such claim. The hearing officer shall consider the information contained in the dealer's written claim, information presented by the claimant or his agent, and all information available to the authority which is known to the claimant. Based upon such information, the hearing officer shall recommend to the authority either that it approves or disapproves such dealer's claim in whole or in part. Based upon the recommendation of the hearing officer and, if the authority shall desire so to do, upon an independent examination by the authority of the written claim and upon any other information available to it, the authority shall either approve or disapprove the claim for refund and shall cause notice of its determination the reasons therefor to be given to the claiming dealer. Any refunds approved pursuant to the provisions of this division shall be paid from funds collected under this division within 30 days of the authority's determination to approve such claim. Dealers whose claims for refund have been disapproved by the authority shall have any and all remedies as may now or hereafter be authorized by law, including civil actions in the courts of the state.
(m)
Dealers' agents. For purposes of the reporting and remittance of the tax imposed hereunder, each dealer may appoint an authorized agent and may delegate the reporting and remittance of the tax to such agent; provided, however, dealers appointing such agents shall notify the authority of the appointment of such agent and the name and address of such agent; and provided further that any dealer appointing such agent shall remain fully liable for the tax and for the reporting and remittance of such tax.
(n)
Notices. All notices, statements, claims or demands, (collectively referred to as "notices") required or permitted to be given under the provisions of this division, shall be in writing and addressed as follows:
(1)
To the authority:
Jekyll Island-State Park Authority
100 James Road
Jekyll Island, Georgia 31527
(2)
To the dealer: The place of business of the dealer as set forth in such dealer's application to engage in the business of innkeeping or such dealer's application for a broker's license, whichever shall be applicable or to such other address as the dealer shall have theretofore, by written request addressed to the authority, requested that such notices be sent.
Notices shall be sent by United States registered or certified mail marked "show to whom, date and address of delivery," and the date of service of any notice shall be the day upon which such notice is deposited in the United States mail.
(Code 1981, § 3-102; Ord. of 5-26-1987, § 3-102)
Sec. 2-195. - Sale of distilled spirits, malt beverages, wine.
(a)
There is hereby levied and imposed upon the sale of packaged distilled spirits, including fortified wines, an excise tax per liter in the amount as set by the State of Georgia, and a proportionate amount at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(b)
There is hereby levied and imposed upon the sale of packaged wine an excise tax per liter in the amount as set by the State of Georgia, and a proportionate amount at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter.
(c)
The excise tax levied and imposed hereunder on the sale of packaged distilled spirits and wine shall be paid by each licensed wholesale dealer in the following manner:
(1)
Said excise tax shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which the packaged distilled spirits or wine are sold and shall be based upon the volume in liters of packaged distilled spirits and wine sold.
(2)
Payment of said excise tax shall be accompanied by a report on forms approved by the executive director, which report shall itemize the exact quantities in liters of packaged distilled spirits and wines sold for the preceding calendar month.
(d)
There is hereby levied and imposed upon the sale of malt beverages, an excise tax in the amount as set by the State of Georgia per 12-ounce can or container of malt beverages, or proportionately thereof, so as to graduate the tax on bottles, cans and containers of various sizes, and an excise tax on tap or draft beer in the amount as set by the State of Georgia for each container of 15½ gallons, or proportionately thereof, so as to graduate the tax on containers of various sizes, where the malt beverage is sold in or from a barrel or bulk container.
(e)
The excise tax levied and imposed hereunder on the sale of malt beverages shall be paid by each licensed wholesale dealer in the following manner:
(1)
Said excise tax shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month next succeeding the month in which the malt beverages are sold.
(2)
Payment of said excise tax shall be accompanied by a report on forms approved by the executive director, which report shall show for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container, constituting a beginning and ending inventory for the month, sold on the island.
(f)
Any tax levied and imposed pursuant to this section which remains unpaid at the expiration of five days from the due date shall be delinquent.
(g)
Any failure of payment of any tax imposed pursuant to this section shall be grounds for revocation or refusal of the license of the licensed wholesale dealer.
(h)
Each licensed wholesale dealer shall keep true and accurate records of all sales, shipments and deliveries of distilled spirits, wines and malt beverages to each licensed retail dealer, such records to be preserved for a period of one year and to be made available on request for inspection by the authority.
(i)
The term "distilled spirits," as used in this section, means and includes spirituous liquors as such term is defined and used otherwise by and in this Code.
(Code 1981, § 3-103; Ord. of 12-6-1982, § 3-103)
Secs. 2-196—2-213. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PARKING FEE

Sec. 2-214. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Commercial bus includes every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than 15 passengers and used generally for the transportation of persons for hire or for compensation.
Motor vehicle includes every self-propelled device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a road or highway, and which is required by law to be registered and operated by license.
(Code 1981, §§ 3A-102, 3A-103)
Sec. 2-215. - Application to motor vehicles.
There shall be a parking fee for all motor vehicles entering upon the island, except bona fide State and Glynn County government motor vehicles entering on government business.
(Code 1981, § 3A-101; Res. of 10-27-2014(1))
Sec. 2-216. - Amount of parking fee.
Except as otherwise provided by this division, the amount of the parking fee, both the single entry fee and the annual fee, shall be as may from time to time be established by the authority. The payment of the annual parking fee and the securing and proper affixing of an annual permit evidencing such payment shall permit the unlimited entry of any automobile upon the island for the period of time for which such annual parking fee payment is made. It is further provided that a credit in an amount equal to one single entry fee shall be given toward the annual parking fee upon proof of payment of the single entry fee made immediately prior to the payment of the annual parking fee. One single entry fee shall be the maximum of any such credit.
(Code 1981, § 3A-104; Res. of 2-22-1982; Amd. of 3-20-1992, § 5)
Sec. 2-217. - Vehicles under repair.
Owners who have paid an annual parking fee and who have the vehicle upon which the annual parking permit is affixed under repair are entitled to a refund of the daily parking fee for a substitute vehicle under the following circumstances:
(1)
Along with payment of the daily parking fee, the owner of the vehicle under repair must provide the collector on duty with the following information:
a.
Name of the owner of the vehicle being repaired;
b.
Make and year of the vehicles being repaired;
c.
Name of the repair facility where the vehicle is being repaired; and
d.
Number of the annual parking permit affixed to the vehicle being repaired.
(2)
A daily parking permit will be issued to the driver, who will be advised that:
a.
The information must be verified;
b.
The daily parking fee will be refunded upon verification of the information provided; and
c.
When to stop back by the collection station to collect the refund.
(Amd. of 3-20-1992, § 8)
Sec. 2-218. - Island parking fee collection station.
A collection station for the collection of the island parking fee shall be placed generally upon the Ben W. Fortson, Jr. Memorial Parkway. The collection station shall be placed and staffed and operated in accordance with procedures from time to time established by the executive director of the authority.
(Res. of 11-6-1981, § 3A-106)
Sec. 2-219. - Payment of annual parking fee and affixing of annual permit.
Payments of the annual parking fee, in the amount as established from time to time may be made, and annual permits secured, at the Guest Information Center of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority. All annual permits shall be affixed and removed by authorized representatives of the authority only.
(Res. of 11-6-1981, § 3A-107)
Sec. 2-220. - Sale or other transfer of motor vehicle to which an annual permit is affixed.
Upon the sale or other transfer of any motor vehicle to which an annual permit is affixed, the person who secured such annual permit by payment of the annual parking fee may remove such annual permit and upon presentation of such removed permit at the island's state park Guest Information Center, together with evidence of the sale or other transfer of the motor vehicle to which such annual permit was affixed, may purchase a replacement annual permit which shall be affixed in the manner prescribed in section 2-219 to any motor vehicle so designated by such person. The charge for each such replacement annual permit shall be as may be established from time to time by the authority.
(Res. of 11-6-1981, § 3A-108; Ord. of 2-27-1984)
Sec. 2-221. - Violations made unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person to pass the island collection station, or otherwise enter upon the island, by means of any motor vehicle, without payment at the island collection station of the island parking fee, unless any such motor vehicle has a duly authorized and properly affixed annual permit secured by payment of the annual parking fee, or unless any such motor vehicle is specifically exempted by this division. It shall further be unlawful to transfer, affix, deface or alter any annual permit other than as set forth by this division, or otherwise to operate a motor vehicle contrary to this division.
(Res. of 11-6-1981, § 3A-109)
Sec. 2-222. - Power and authority of executive director.
The executive director of the authority shall have power and authority to do all acts and things appropriate and necessary for the implementation, administration and collection of the island parking fee.
(Res. of 11-6-1981, § 3A-110)
