Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The provisions embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia," and may be so cited. This publication also may be designated as the "Jekyll Island Authority Code."
(Code 1981, § 1-101)
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the authority:
(1)
General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(2)
Gender, singular and plural. Every word in any Code provision or ordinance importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females as well as males; and every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(3)
Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future when applicable.
(4)
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision requires the executive director or an authority member to do some act or perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize subordinates to do the required act or perform the required duty unless the terms of the provisions designate otherwise.
(5)
Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any Code provision or ordinance or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
(6)
Overlapping provisions. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than any general provisions imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be applicable.
(Code 1981, § 1-102)
Sec. 1-3. - Definitions.
Words and phrases used in this Code shall have the following meanings, unless otherwise specified:
Act. The term "Act" means the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Act, Georgia Laws 1950, p. 152 et seq., as amended.
Authority. The term "the authority" or "this authority" means the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia and/or a duly appointed authority representative.
Authority members. The term "authority members" means the authority members of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority as delineated in state law.
Chairperson. The term "chairperson" means the chairperson of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia.
Chairperson and authority members. The term "chairperson and authority members" means the chairperson and authority members of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia.
Cost of the project. The term "cost of project" means:
(1)
The cost of construction;
(2)
The cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired;
(3)
The cost of all machinery and equipment;
(4)
The financing charges;
(5)
The interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction;
(6)
The cost of engineering;
(7)
The architectural and legal expenses, cost of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project;
(8)
The administrative expense; and
(9)
Such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this part, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation.
Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under this part for such project.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means the County of Glynn, Georgia.
Court. The term "court" means the applicable court as stipulated by law.
Executive director. The term "executive director" means a fulltime manager of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority.
Governing authority, governing body. The term "governing authority" or "governing body" means the chairperson and authority members of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia.
Jekyll Island, Island. The term "Jekyll Island" or "island" means all real property and lands under the jurisdiction of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority as described and referenced at Georgia Laws 1950, p. 152 et seq., as amended.
Judge or recorder. The term "judge" or "recorder" means the judge of the applicable court as stipulated by law.
Master plan. The term "master plan" means that document to be created under the auspices of and adopted by the authority of Jekyll Island and as it may be amended from time to time pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-3-243.1.
Misdemeanor. The term "misdemeanor" means a violation of the state criminal law punishable by a fine not in excess of $1,000.00 or confinement in a county or other jail for a term not exceeding 12 months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the term "swear" or "sworn."
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the authority of a general and permanent nature.
Owner. The term "owner," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part of such building or land.
Park. The term "park" means present and future parks, parkways, park and recreational resources and facilities of the state or any department, agency, or institution of the state, and any such facility constituting part of the state parks system and shall specifically include Jekyll Island State Park.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as hereinafter defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Project. The term "project" means any subdivision, hotel, cottage, apartment house, public building, school, utility, dock, facility, watercourse, airport, bridge, golf course, tennis court or other resort recreational facility. The term "project" also means one or a combination of two or more of the following: buildings and facilities, and all other structures, electric, gas, steam, water and sewerage utilities and facilities of every kind and character deemed by the authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of any department, board, commission, authority or agency of the state.
Property. The term "property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public areas. The term "public areas" includes all real property under the custody of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Reasonable time or notice. The term "reasonable time or notice" shall be deemed to mean only such time as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the act required.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the authority of a special or temporary character.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, but shall not include any unimproved areas between the curbline and improved walkways.
Signature, subscription. The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark intended as such when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, viaduct or bridge, and the approaches thereto, within the public areas.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or to land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Week. The term "week" means seven calendar days.
Writing or written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1981, § 1-103)
Sec. 1-4. - Section headings.
The headings of the several sections and subsections of this Code are intended as mere captions to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section or subsection, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections or subsections, including the headings, is amended or re-enacted.
(Code 1981, § 1-104)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal or expiration of Code section.
(a)
The repeal of a Code section or ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued or any offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(b)
When any ordinance repealing a former Code section, ordinance, clause, or provision, shall be itself, repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former Code section, ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be expressly so provided.
(Code 1981, § 1-105)
Sec. 1-6. - Amending Code.
(a)
These ordinances may be amended or repealed and a new ordinance may be adopted by the affirmative vote of five members of the authority present and voting at a regular or annual meeting pursuant to notice, provided that such amendment, repeal or adoption is proposed at any prior meeting and provided further that notice of the regular or annual meeting at which the same is proposed to be acted upon shall include as part thereof the proposed amendment or new ordinance.
(b)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal, or in any way affect this Code shall be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections, and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as the Code and subsequent ordinances omitted are readopted as a new Code by the authority.
(c)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows:…." The new provision may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in this Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "The Code of Ordinances of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority of Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or subsection or chapter) to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows:…." The new provision shall then be set out in full as desired.
(e)
All sections, chapters or provisions sought to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, chapter or provision number, as the case may be.
(Code 1981, § 1-106)
Sec. 1-7. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever, except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 1-107)
Sec. 1-8. - Penalty where no penalty provided.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the authority any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, or whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to such fine not exceeding $500.00 plus costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the judge.
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this Code shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the Code or applicable law.
(Code 1981, § 1-108)
Sec. 1-9. - State and federal laws, rules and regulations.
The provisions of this Code shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of nor in restriction of, applicable provisions of laws, rules and regulations of the state and of the United States of America.
(Code 1981, § 1-109)
Sec. 1-10. - Prohibited entry.
Any person entering upon any public areas of Jekyll Island, where or at such times such entry is prohibited by notice, by signs or otherwise, of the authority, or any person who remains upon any public area of Jekyll Island after notice to depart by the executive director, his authorized representative, or any law enforcement officer, shall be considered to be upon such public area without permission or authorization of the authority.
(Code 1981, § 1-110)
Sec. 1-11. - Prosecution of ordinances.
modified
(a)
Violations of authority ordinances may be tried upon citations without a prosecuting attorney. The authority's attorney may prosecute a citation or the authority may request the attorney general to designate and furnish a prosecuting attorney for any trial upon a citation of a violation of an authority ordinance when either so requested by the judge of the magistrate court of the county or so determined appropriate by the authority or the attorney general.
(b)
Members of the uniform division of the department of public safety, or individuals appointed by the authority and sworn in as officers of the magistrate court, are authorized to issue citations for violations of authority ordinances. Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the magistrate court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the person who completes and serves the citation.
(c)
Prosecutions for violations of ordinances set forth in this Code upon citations shall be commenced by the completion, signing, and service of a citation by a member of the uniform division of the department of public safety or by an individual appointed by the authority and sworn in as an officer of the magistrate court. Except as provided for in subsection (d) of this Code section, the original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused, and a copy shall be filed promptly with the magistrate court of the county. No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial, except for the offenses of public drunkenness or disorderly conduct; but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(d)
(1)
A citation for violation of an ordinance concerning the condition of real property may be served by:
a.
Posting a copy of it on the door of the premises where the alleged violation occurred;
b.
Mailing a copy of it by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the owner of such premises at the address of record maintained by the applicable tax commissioner. The certificate of mailing to the accused shall constitute prima-facie evidence of compliance with this subparagraph; and
c.
Filing a copy of it with the clerk of magistrate court.
(2)
Service under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not be authorized until there has been at least one attempt at personal service on the accused at the address of record of the accused as maintained by the applicable tax commissioner or of the accused's registered agent as maintained by the Secretary of State, provided that such attempt at personal service shall only be required if the accused resides or has a registered agent in this state.
(Ord. of 8-17-1987, § 1-111; Ord. of 5-19-2020(1) , § 1)
Sec. 1-12. - Severability.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the authority that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect the remaining clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
