Chapter 26 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 38; law enforcement, ch. 50; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.

Sec. 26-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions may include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, protection against the effects of radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, shelter, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to the civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out such functions.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-2(a))
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-2. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-2(f))
Sec. 26-3. - Acceptance of county plan.
The county emergency and disaster operations plan, dated February 1980, is accepted for the emergency management of the city.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-1)
Sec. 26-4. - Participation in county emergency management unit; emergency management director.
It is the desire and intent of the mayor and council that the city be a part of the county emergency management unit. The chief executive officer of the county shall nominate for appointment, by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the mayor and council on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments, the county emergency and disaster operations plan emergency functions. The plan will be in consonance with state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the governing officials of the county and the cities therein for approval, and thence to the state emergency management agency for approval.
(4)
To maintaif the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g., financial reports, daily activity reports, etc.
(6)
To obtain, with the authority of governing officials, a facility to be used as the county emergency operating center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operating center staff during periods of emergency, under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-2(b))
Sec. 26-5. - Emergency management functions.
The county emergency management office shall be established around existing city and county departments, and the emergency functions described in the emergency and disaster operations plan are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department or Agency Functions
(1) Mayor, chief executive officer, county commissioners Direction and control.
(2) Police department and sheriff's department Communications and warning, police services, evacuation.
(3) Emergency management office Public information, state military support training, preliminary damage assessment and reporting, public property assistance, attack preparedness, specific hazards.
(4) Fire department Search, rescue and recovery, fire services, hazardous materials, radiological protection.
(5) Public works Engineering, petroleum and solid fuel services, utilities.
(6) County school system Transportation services, food services.
(7) Board of health Health and medical services.
(8) Department of family and children's services Social services, shelter and temporary housing.
  (Code 1982, § 4-3-2(c))
Sec. 26-6. - Emergency powers of mayor.
In the event of a manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor of the city, separately or jointly with the chief executive officer or county commissioners, or, in their absence, their legally appointed successors, may determine that an emergency or disaster exists, and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such emergency or disaster exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management, and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources;
(2)
To seize or take for temporary use any private property for the protection of the public;
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county and to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and of funds received for such property or supplies; and
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-2(d))
Sec. 26-7. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1982, § 4-3-2(e))
