Chapter 54 - MUNICIPAL COURT[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court judge, § 3.1 et seq.
Cross reference— Law enforcement, ch. 50; offenses, ch. 58.
State Law reference— Establishment and jurisdiction of municipal courts, Ga. Const. art. 6, sec. 1, par. 1; municipal courts, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Court authorized; jurisdiction.
The city shall have a municipal court, which shall be called the "Municipal Court of the City of Chamblee" and shall have jurisdiction over all violations of the ordinances and resolutions of the city.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-1)
Sec. 54-2. - Election, qualifications and oath of judge, assistant judges and solicitor.
(a)
The mayor and council shall appoint a judge and make such judge presiding officer of the municipal court. The judge so appointed shall be a duly licensed attorney and a member of the State Bar of Georgia, with at least ten years experience in the active practice of law. Such judge's compensation shall be fixed by the mayor and council. The mayor and council may appoint assistant judges as the mayor and council deem necessary. Any such assistant judge shall be a duly licensed attorney and a member of the State Bar of Georgia with at least ten years experience in the active practice of law.
(b)
The mayor and council shall elect a solicitor of the municipal court of the city. The solicitor so elected shall be a duly licensed attorney and a member of the State Bar of Georgia with at least four years' experience in the active practice of law. The solicitor shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and his compensation shall be fixed by the mayor and council.
(c)
Before accepting the duties of office, any solicitor of the municipal court shall take and subscribe the following oath: "I do in good faith claim that I am eligible under the law to hold the office of municipal court solicitor in the City of Chamblee; and that I will truly and faithfully perform my duties as such officer to the best of my ability and according to the laws and ordinances under which I perform said duties; I will in all cases undertake to act impartially, and to do justice in all respects." The solicitor shall be an independent contractor of the city and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-2; Ord. No. 367, § 2-3-2, 12-11-92; Ord. No. 414, 3-19-96; Ord. No. 425, 10-15-96; Ord. No. 449, § 1, 3-17-98; Ord. No. 773 , pts. I, II, 12-17-19; Ord. No. 780 , pts. 1, 2, 3-17-20)
Sec. 54-3. - Powers of court and judge; maximum penalty; contempt.
The judge of the municipal court shall have jurisdiction to try all offenses against the laws and ordinances of the city and to punish violators of such laws and ordinances. The court shall have the power to enforce its judgments by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish witnesses for nonattendance; and also to punish for contempt. The judge of the municipal court shall have power and authority to impose fines or imprisonment for the violation of any law or ordinance of the city passed in accordance with its Charter. The judge shall have the power and authority to impose any one or more of such punishments when in the opinion of the court the facts justify it. The court shall have the power to preserve order; compel the attendance of witnesses; compel the production of books and papers to be used as evidence; to issue subpoenas for these purposes; to issue such other processes as may be necessary to the proper administration of the court and to punish for contempt, as provided in chapter 1, section 1-6 of the Code of Ordinances, City of Chamblee, Georgia.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-3; Ord. No. 599, pt. I, 6-16-09)
Sec. 54-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 387, § 7(1), adopted Dec. 10, 1993, set out provisions repealing § 54-4, which pertained to the judge having authority of justice of the peace as well as the duty of the judge in cases of state law violations and derived from the Code of 1982, § 2-3-4.
Sec. 54-5. - Appeals.
Appeals of decisions of the municipal court shall be by petitioning the Superior Court of DeKalb County for a writ of certiorari. Requirements of bond, security, certificate of payment of costs, oath of security and affidavit of indigence shall be as provided in O.C.G.A. § 5-4-5.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-5; Ord. No. 646, pt. I, 9-24-12; Ord. No. 773 , pt. III, 12-17-19; Ord. No. 780 , pt. 3, 3-17-20)
Sec. 54-6. - Time and place for holding court.
The hours of municipal court operation shall be set as provided in Rule 3 of the Georgia Uniform Municipal Court Rules.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-6; Ord. No. 773 , pt. IV, 12-17-19; Ord. No. 780 , pt. 4, 3-17-20)
Sec. 54-7. - Arrest by police officers; right to bail or recognizance.
All police officers of the city shall have the power and authority to arrest persons when there is probable cause to believe that such persons have violated any ordinance of the city or law of the state, and to confine them in the city prison or the common jail of the county. If there exists probable cause to believe that an offense has been committed and that the defendant committed it, the judge of the municipal court shall bind the defendant over for trial, and shall grant him bail or recognizance if the offense is bailable under ordinance or state law. If probable cause does not appear, the judge shall discharge the defendant.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-7; Ord. No. 387, § 7(2), 12-10-93)
Sec. 54-8. - Acceptance of cash or property in lieu of surety bond.
The judge of the municipal court may, in his discretion, accept cash or real or personal property as surety for the happening of an event or act concerning matters before the municipal court. The property or cash shall be deposited with the appropriate person, official or other depository as prescribed by ordinance, in an amount or equivalent cash value to be determined by the judge. If property offered and accepted for the security is realty, or immovable or cumbersome personal property, the municipal court may exercise its authority and control over such property by posting written notice to all persons in or on such property that it is in the custody of the court.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-8)
Sec. 54-9. - Forfeiture of bond or other security on failure to appear.
Whenever any defendant shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for the trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge of the municipal court, and an execution thereon issued by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi, at least two days before the hearing on the rule nisi. If cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of offenders at trial and if such offenders fail to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be, on order of the judge of the municipal court, declared forfeited to the city, and shall become the property of the city unless otherwise set aside by the court.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-9)
Sec. 54-10. - Court costs.
In all cases in the municipal court, the costs incurred and allowable pursuant to this section may be computed by the judge to defray the costs of operation. Any such costs as computed and imposed shall be subject to review and modification by the mayor and council as they may see fit. The city shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to the superior court for violations of state law. The mayor and council may also provide a uniform scale of costs of the clerk and police officers of the city for all services in the arrest and prosecution of offenders in the municipal court and in the issuance and collection of tax and other executions, and for their collection and payment into the city treasury.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-10)
Sec. 54-11. - Administrative rules.
With the approval of the mayor and council, the judge of the municipal court shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the business of the court.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-11)
Sec. 54-12. - Bailiff.
The bailiff of the municipal court shall be appointed by the chief of police. The duties of the bailiff shall consist generally of seeing that the courtroom is in proper condition for sessions of court, of assisting in keeping order while court is in session, and of doing such other acts of assistance as may be required of him by the judge of the court.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-12)
Sec. 54-13. - Clerk.
The clerk of the municipal court shall be appointed by the judge of the municipal court. It shall be his duty to maintain all records of the court and perform such other duties and acts as may be required by the judge.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-13)
Sec. 54-14. - Record of cases.
A record of all cases heard in the municipal court for violation of this Code or other municipal ordinances shall be kept in a suitable bound volume by the court clerk. The record shall contain the name of the defendant, the nature of the offense charged, the final disposition of the case, and the date of final disposition.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-14)
Sec. 54-15. - Service of summons.
Any person charged with violating any city ordinance shall receive notice by service of a summons as provided in this section. Such summons may be issued by any police officer of the city or the municipal court judge. The summons shall be directed to the accused and shall distinctly state the offense charged, the time and place, as far as practicable, of the offense charged, and the day, hour and place of trial, and shall require the accused to appear before the judge of the municipal court to answer the accusation made. Service of the summons shall be made by any person authorized to issue such summons, either by serving the accused personally or by leaving a copy at his most notorious place of abode, by certified or registered mail, or by any reasonable manner or method as prescribed by the judge. In the case of a summons issued for violation of laws or ordinances relating to the parking of motor vehicles, such summons may be directed to an unknown person as owner of an automobile designated in the summons, and may be served upon such person by leaving a copy in or attached to such automobile.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-15)
Sec. 54-16. - Service of subpoenas.
Any person authorized to issue a summons shall also be authorized to issue subpoenas for the appearance of all witnesses necessary for the prosecution or for the defense in any case pending before the municipal court. All subpoenas shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-16)
Sec. 54-17. - Failure to obey summons or subpoena.
Any person who fails to appear at the time and place set out in any summons or subpoena served upon him may be subject to punishment for contempt of court, and upon conviction thereof may be punished for such contempt at the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(Code 1982, § 2-3-17)
Sec. 54-18. - Technology surcharge.
There shall be imposed by the Chamblee Municipal Court a technology surcharge in the amount of $15.00 per offense. Said technology surcharge shall be in addition to all other fines and fees imposed by the Chamblee Municipal Court. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this additional surcharge shall not apply to citations exempt from add on fees by state law, nor shall the surcharge cause the total amount of fines to exceed that allowed by state law or the Charter for the City of Chamblee, Georgia. All revenues derived from the technology surcharge shall be used by the City of Chamblee to provide for the technology needs of the Chamblee Police Department and the Chamblee Municipal Court.
(Ord. No. 599, pt. II, 6-16-09)
