Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Chamblee, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless it shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Chamblee, Georgia.
City. The terms "the city" and "this city" mean the City of Chamblee, Georgia.
City limits. The term "city limits" means the legal boundary of the City of Chamblee, Georgia.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Chamblee, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted, and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Council. The terms "the council" and "city council" mean the mayor and council of the City of Chamblee, Georgia.
County. The term "county" means DeKalb County, a political subdivision of the state, or, in appropriate cases, the governing body thereof.
County board of commissioners. The term "county board of commissioners" means the DeKalb County board of commissioners.
Days. The term "days" means calendar days unless otherwise provided, and the term "day" means from 12:00 midnight until the following 12:00 midnight.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection, unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males or any other legal entity when applicable under federal or state law.
Governor. The term "governor" means the governor of the State of Georgia.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Chamblee.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or; and. The word "or" may be read as "and," and the word "and" may be read as "or," if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., it shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of the City of Chamblee, Georgia.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association or organization and any other entity acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding; following. The terms "preceding" and "following" means next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Right-of-way. The term "right-of-way" means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established for public use.
Roadway. The term "roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
Shall; may. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the word "may" is permissive.
Signature and subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" means and shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city, and shall embrace all parts of thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Tenant. The term "tenant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person who lawfully occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and the present.
Writing and written. The terms "writing" and "written" include printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Year. The term "year" means calendar year.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-2)
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.c.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
The catchlines of sections in this Code printed in boldface type, italics or otherwise are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, or any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-3)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in the Code. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Chamblee, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: (Set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the mayor and council desire to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the mayor and council desire to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance: "Section _____. It is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of Ordinances, City of Chamblee, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed may be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-5. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-6.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-7)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-6. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in the Code or any ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or any or all of these penalties, in the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-8; Ord. No. 600, pt. I, 6-16-09)
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; authority to confine persons convicted of violating ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; punishments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code; conflicting provisions.
(a)
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(b)
Where there is apparent conflict in this Code between specific and general provisions, it is the intention of this Code that the specific shall control.
(Code 1982, § 1-1-5)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-9. - Applicability of ordinances on city property outside city limits.
All ordinances which are in force within the limits of the city shall be in force and of full effect on any park or airport or any other property of the city located outside of the city limits, wherever the ordinance is applicable.
State Law reference— Acquisition, construction and maintenance of airports by municipalities authorized, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-20; powers and duties of municipalities as to airports, O.C.G.A. § 6-3-25.
Sec. 1-10. - Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-11. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement, and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in the catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code, and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code.
Sec. 1-12. - Ordinances, offenses, etc., not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordioance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any zoning ordinance;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
(16)
Any personnel ordinance;
(17)
Any ordinance amending the Charter or any special act of the general assembly of the state which was converted to an ordinance;
nor shall the ordinance adopting this Code be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code. All ordinances listed in this section are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in the Code.
