Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; courts, ch. 34.
State Law reference— Emergency management, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management: The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions, other than those functions for which military forces or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action or other causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for the preparation for and carrying out of these functions.
Energy emergency: A condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare or economic well-being of the citizens of this state arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; also any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of this state resulting from the operation of any electrical power-generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material or byproduct, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 USC 2011 et seq.; and also any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside this state, substantially affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of this state.
(Code 1993, § 8-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-2. - Interpretation of chapter.
This chapter shall be construed liberally in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1993, § 8-2)
Sec. 30-3. - Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1993, § 8-3)
Sec. 30-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, the provisions formerly set out as § 30-4 have been renumbered as § 50-3.
Secs. 30-5—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Management[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-1 et seq.; Emergency Management Assistance Compact, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-80 et seq.

Sec. 30-31. - Established.
In agreement with participating cities or towns within the county, there is hereby established the county emergency management office.
(Code 1993, § 8-4)
Sec. 30-32. - Appointment of director-coordinator.
The board of commissioners, with concurrence of officials of participating cities or towns, shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, after certification by the state emergency management agency, a director-coordinator of emergency management for the entire county.
(Code 1993, § 8-4)
Sec. 30-33. - Duties of director-coordinator.
When appointed, the emergency management director-coordinator is charged with the following duties:
(1)
Represent the governing officials of the county and cities or towns therein on matters pertaining to civil preparedness.
(2)
Assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Develop, in conjunction with county and city departments and agencies, the county plan for emergency management functions as set forth in section 30-1. Such plan shall be in consonance with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the governing officials for approval and thence to the state director for approval.
(4)
Maintain the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management and disaster program, including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management office.
(5)
Administer the county office of emergency management as designated by the state Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. §§ 38-3-1 et seq.
(6)
Render reports such as financial reports, daily activity reports and the like, as required in keeping with good business practices.
(7)
Procure with the authority of governing officials a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(8)
Coordinate the activities of the emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency.
(Code 1993, § 8-4)
Sec. 30-34. - Composition; functions.
The county emergency management organization shall be established around existing county and city departments and agencies and the emergency management functions listed in section 30-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive: Direction and control, finances and supply
a. Chairman, board of commissioners
b. Mayor of Winder or other participating cities or towns
(2) Police services: Security, search, warning and movement
a. County sheriff's department
b. Winder police department
c. Auburn and Statham police departments
(3) Fire services: Winder, Auburn, Bethlehem, Statham and county fire departments Fire control, decontamination and recovery
(4) Public works and engineering: Restoration of public utilities, road hazard clearance, hazard analysis and similar functions
a. County public works department
b. Winder public works department
(5) Emergency management agency Radiological defense, shelter and evacuation, public information, institutional emergency planning, rescue, emergency communications, damage assessment and evaluation
(6) Human resources: Human needs, including welfare and food stamps; mortuary registration; shelter registration; emergency health control, including rodent control, water purification, waste control and similar functions; EOC center coordination
a. Department of family and children services
b. County health department
c. Ambulance service Casualty transportation, extraction, rescue support, shelter medical aid
d. Hospital Total medical facility support
  Heads of departments listed in this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency functions. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director-coordinator, who, after approval, shall present the plans to the governing officials and after their approval to the state emergency management agency for final approval.
(Code 1993, § 8-5)
Sec. 30-35. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other emergency which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the board of commissioners, jointly with the mayor and council of any city or town suffering damage, or, in their absence, a legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise, for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to civil preparedness and assume direct operational control over all civil preparedness resources.
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county, and maintain strict accounting of such properties or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties and take such emergency action as may be necessary to promote the security and safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1993, § 8-6)
Sec. 30-36. - Volunteers.
All persons other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and county performing emergency functions pursuant to this article shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunity as county and city employees.
(Code 1993, § 8-7)
Sec. 30-37. - Adoption of NIMS.
This section hereby adopts and implements the National Incident Management System.
(Res. of 4-26-2005)
Secs. 30-38—30-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 30-61. - Conditions authorizing declaration of emergency.
The chairman of the board of commissioners shall have the right to declare an emergency to exist when, in his opinion, one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1)
There is extreme likelihood of danger of destruction of life or property due to unusual conditions.
(2)
Unusual or extreme weather conditions exist making use of roads, streets or areas difficult or impossible.
(3)
Civil unrest, commotion or uprising is imminent or exists.
(4)
There is a stoppage or loss of electrical power affecting a major portion of the county.
Sec. 30-62. - Powers after declaration.
After declaration of an emergency under this article, the chairman of the board of commissioners, as chief executive, shall have the right to exercise any or all of the following powers:
(1)
Use employees of the county to assist in the safety and preservation of life, limb and property of its citizenry.
(2)
Close streets and sidewalks and delineate areas within the county wherein an emergency exists.
(3)
Impose emergency curfew regulations.
(4)
Close business establishments within the affected area.
(5)
Close any or all county-owned buildings and other facilities to the use of the general public.
(6)
Do all acts necessary and incidental to the preservation of life, limb and property of the citizenry of the county.
Sec. 30-63. - Effective period of emergency powers.
No emergency power exercised under this article may be effective for more than 72 hours after the declaration of an emergency by the chairman. However, upon declaration of a second or further emergency to exist, the emergency powers as set forth in section 30-62 may be exercised during such further emergency periods, but never for more than 72 hours in one declared emergency period.
Sec. 30-64. - Duration.
No emergency period shall extend beyond the next regular, special or called meeting of the board of commissioners.
Sec. 30-65. - Designation of area.
The declaration of an emergency as to a portion of the county shall specify with exactness the area in which the emergency is declared to exist.
Sec. 30-66. - Unlawful acts during emergencies.
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts during an emergency:
(1)
Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management corps in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article or in the performance of any duty imposed by virtue of this article.
(2)
Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations issued pursuant to this article if such act is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of this county, or prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
(3)
Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification specified by the emergency management agency.
Sec. 30-67. - Overcharging during emergencies.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Overcharging: Charging prices for goods, materials, services or housing which are substantially in excess of the customary charges or, in applicable cases, substantially in excess of the suppliers' or providers' costs for such goods, materials, services or housing. The existence of overcharging shall be presumed from a substantial increase in the price at which the merchandise or cost/rental of housing was offered in the usual course of business immediately prior to the onset of the emergency, but shall not include increases in cost to the supplier directly attributable to the higher cost of material, supplies and labor costs resulting from the emergency.
State of emergency: Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), the term is defined as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period: That period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed six months after the emergency declaration has been terminated.
(b)
Overcharging prohibited. In order to preserve, protect or sustain the life, health or safety of persons or their property within the declared disaster area, it shall be unlawful, during the duration of the state or emergency or subsequent recovery period in which the county has been designated as a disaster area, for any person located or doing business in the county to overcharge for any goods, materials, services, motel rooms, temporary lodging or houses sold or rented within the county.
(c)
Penalty. Violations of the provisions of this section, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each sale or rental shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 2-14-1995, §§ 1—3)
Secs. 30-68—30-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PLANNING COMMITTEE

Sec. 30-91. - Established; membership.
A local emergency planning committee for the county is established, which shall be composed of the following members:
Barrow County Emergency Management Agency Director.
Representative from the Athens Banner Herald.
Representative from the Barrow County Board of Commissioners.
Representative from the Barrow County Board of Education.
Representative from the Barrow County Board of Health.
Representative from the Barrow County Department of Risk Management.
Representative from the Barrow County News.
Representative from Barrow County 911.
Representative from Barrow County Public Works.
Representative from the Barrow County Sheriff's Office.
Representative from the Barrow Regional Medical Center.
Representative from the City of Winder Fire Department.
Representative from the City of Winder Police Department.
Representative from the Northeast Georgia Regional Airport.
Representative from Georgia Power.
Representative from the Gwinnett Daily Post.
Representative from Harrison Poultry.
Representative from Jackson EMC.
Representative from Johns Manville.
Representative from the Local Mayor's Council.
Representative from Rhodia.
Representative from Stepan.
Representative from WCTV-12 (Winder Community Television).
Representative from WIMO.
Representative from Walton EMC.
(Res. of 6-14-1994; Res. of 3-13-2007)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; planning and development, ch. 66.
Sec. 30-92. - Duties.
The local emergency planning committee shall:
(1)
Pursue the development of an awareness program involving industry, the community, local government and the news media; and
(2)
Evaluate available resources for preparing for and responding to potential incidents.
(Res. of 6-14-1994)
Sec. 30-93. - Assistance by emergency management agency.
The emergency management agency shall be responsible as a consultant to the local emergency planning committee and shall furnish all administrative support to committee activities.
(Res. of 6-14-1994)
Secs. 30-94—30-120. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - TEMPORARY EMERGENCY SHELTERS

Sec. 30-121. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
BCEMA: The Barrow County Emergency Management Agency.
Shelterees: Those people who are sheltered, housed or otherwise staying in a designated shelter area.
(Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 2(8-9))
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 30-122. - Designation of shelters.
(a)
The board of commissioners and other county government entities have designated certain government-owned and privately owned locations throughout the county as temporary shelters for purposes of emergency situations. A list of these designated emergency shelters shall be kept on file at the BCEMA offices.
(b)
These emergency shelters are so designated for the safety and well-being of the citizens of the county in the event of a natural or other disaster. The county opens and designates these places as shelters for the sole purpose of giving citizens a safer place to temporarily reside in emergency situations.
(Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 2(8-10))
Sec. 30-123. - Limitations on responsibilities and liability of county.
(a)
The county is not responsible for furnishing any needed items for shelterees. The shelterees are solely responsible for all such necessary items.
(b)
The county does not assume liability for any acts or omissions which take place in a designated shelter or on the grounds of a designated shelter, regardless of whether such acts or omissions cause injury or harm, nor shall the county be responsible in any way for the acts or omissions of any person working at a designated shelter.
(Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 2(8-11))
Sec. 30-124. - Conduct of persons in shelters.
(a)
While on the grounds of a designated shelter at a time when such building is being used as a shelter, all citizens, whether shelterees or not, shall follow the directions of shelter managers at all times.
(b)
No person shall be allowed in a shelter if that person is under the influence of alcohol or drugs. This subsection shall not apply to prescription medication or over-the-counter medication.
(c)
No person shall be allowed in a shelter if that person has in his possession a weapon of any kind.
(d)
Pets shall not be allowed in a shelter.
(e)
Shelterees shall conduct themselves and members of their party in an orderly and controlled manner.
(f)
Any violation of this section shall lead to ejection from the shelter and/or law enforcement involvement in a situation if deemed necessary by the shelter manager.
(Ord. of 9-8-1998, § 2(8-12))
