Chapter 34 - COURTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 30; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 58; traffic and vehicles, ch. 86.
State Law reference— Magistrate courts generally, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-1 et seq.; magistrate courts established, Ga. Const. art. VI, § I, ¶ I; O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1; state courts of counties, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-7-1 et seq.; contracts to furnish municipal court services authorized, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-7-80 et seq.; probate courts generally, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-9-1 et seq.; superior courts generally, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-6-1 et seq.

Sec. 34-1. - Indigent defense program.
The board of commissioners agrees to implement and manage a local indigent defense program in accordance with the guidelines approved and adopted by the supreme court of the state for the operation of local indigent defense programs in exchange for a share of state funds available for such programs.
(Code 1993, § 7-1)
State Law reference— Public defenders, O.C.G.A. §§ 17-12-20 et seq.
Sec. 34-2. - Jail fund charge.
(a)
The board of commissioners places in effect those provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 15-21-90—15-21-95 which deal with county courts.
(b)
In every case in which the superior court, probate court or magistrate court shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any offense against a criminal or traffic law of this state or any ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to ten percent of the original fine.
(c)
At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or ordinance of a political subdivision thereof, an additional sum equal to ten percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which the superior court, magistrate court or probate court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional sum equal to ten percent of the original bail or bond shall be paid into the county jail fund.
(d)
Moneys collected pursuant to this section and placed in the county jail fund shall be expended by the county board of commissioners solely and exclusively for constructing, operating and staffing county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county or for the purpose of contracting for such facilities with other counties, the state, municipalities or other political subdivisions as authorized by article IX, section III, paragraph I of the state constitution. The county jail fund and moneys collected pursuant to this section to be placed in the county jail fund may be pledged as security for the payment of bonds issued for the construction of county jails, county correctional institutions and detention facilities of the county.
(Code 1993, § 7-2)
