Chapter 54 - MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MOBILE HOMES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 22; environment, ch. 38; flood hazard prevention, ch. 46; health, ch. 50; planning and development, ch. 66; roads, ch. 70; solid waste, ch. 78; utilities, ch. 90; zoning, app. A; mobile home park district (R-4), app. A, art. IV, div. 6.
State Law reference— Ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. §§ 48-5-440 et seq.; The Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-130 et seq.; classification of mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III; factory-built buildings and dwelling units, O.C.G.A. §§ 8-2-110 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LOCATION PERMIT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Issuance of mobile home location permits, display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492.

Sec. 54-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Mobile home means a detached single-family dwelling designed for longterm occupancy, designed to be transported on its own wheels, arriving at the site as a complete dwelling unit usually including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy; which dwelling has been constructed in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards of June 15, 1976, as amended, and bears an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Removal of the wheels and placement of this dwelling on a foundation does not change its classification. A travel trailer is not a manufactured home.
(Code 1993, § 14-26)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 54-32. - Intent of article.
It is the intent of this article to provide requirements whereby the officials of the county shall accurately prepare and check tax returns on mobile homes and collect all applicable taxes due on mobile homes.
(Code 1993, § 14-27)
Sec. 54-33. - Administration.
(a)
The board of commissioners will prepare and furnish to the tax commissioner the necessary supplies and forms as may be necessary to effectively carry out the provisions of this article.
(b)
The board of commissioners will prepare necessary rules and regulations for the tax commissioner to follow to effectively carry out the provisions of this article.
(Code 1993, § 14-28)
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
Sec. 54-34. - Penalties; impoundment.
(a)
Any person failing to comply with or violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; provided, however, that a person convicted under this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00.
(b)
Any law enforcement officer who finds a mobile home being transported within the confines of the county in violation of this article may have such mobile home and the vehicle transporting such mobile home impounded at the owner's risk and expense until a permit for such transportation is issued.
(c)
Any person transporting a mobile home which does not have the appropriate decal affixed as required by this article shall be in violation of this article, and upon conviction under this article shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $500.00.
(Code 1993, § 14-29)
Sec. 54-35. - Authorization of location by building official; location permit required.
(a)
The owner of a mobile home, before locating a mobile home within the confines of the county, intending to use such mobile home as a residence for himself or others or for any other purpose other than resale, shall obtain from the building permit office of the county a permit authorizing the location of such mobile home within the confines of the county. Such person shall obtain from the tax commissioner a location permit, thereby registering such mobile home on county tax records.
(b)
The owner of such mobile home, before relocating such mobile home within the confines of the county, or beyond the confines of the county, intending to use such mobile home as a residence or for any other purpose other than resale, must obtain a permit from the building permit office. Such person shall also obtain from the tax commissioner a location permit, thereby registering such mobile home on county tax records.
(Code 1993, § 14-30)
Sec. 54-36. - Payment of taxes.
(a)
All applicable taxes must be paid before any permit provided for in this article shall be issued.
(b)
Before any permit provided for in this article shall be issued, the owner of a mobile home, which home is located within any portion of the county that lies within a municipality, shall furnish proof to the tax commissioner that all applicable municipal taxes have been paid.
(Code 1993, § 14-31)
Cross reference— Taxation, ch. 82.
Sec. 54-37. - Decals.
(a)
The tax commissioner shall issue a decal, at the time a building permit is issued under this article, authorizing the location of a mobile home in the county. The decal shall be of a color that is approved each year by the department of revenue and shall be affixed by the owner to the mobile home at all times it is being used as a residence within the county, or for any purpose other than resale.
(b)
The tax commissioner shall issue a decal, in a color approved by the department of revenue, with the permit authorizing relocation of a mobile home, which shall be affixed to the mobile home at all times such mobile home is being transported within the county and the state.
(c)
The decals shall be designed in such manner and affixed to mobile homes in such manner as to cause them to be easily visible for inspection. Whenever a permit authorizing relocation of a mobile home is issued and such mobile home is to be relocated within the confines of another county of this state, the tax assessors of such other county shall be notified of the date of the issuance of such permit.
(Code 1993, § 14-32)
Sec. 54-38. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. of May 10, 2005, repealed § 54-38, which pertained to the permit fee and derived from Code 1993, § 14-33.
