Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Board of commissioners authorized to adopt ordinances for the governing and policing of the unincorporated areas of the county, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20(a).

Sec. 1-1. - Designation and citation of Code.
The ordinances and other enactments embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Barrow County, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to as the "Barrow County Code."
(Code 1993, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - General rules of construction; definitions.
In the construction of this Code, the definitions and rules in this section shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners.
General. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling. The ordinary signification shall be applied to all words, except words of art or words connected with a particular trade or subject matter, which shall have the signification attached to them by experts in such trade or with reference to such subject matter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(b).
Board, board of commissioners: The terms "board" and "board of commissioners" mean the board of commissioners of Barrow County, Georgia.
Computation of time: When a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the person having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday provided for in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the person having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(3).
County: The terms "the county" and "this county" mean Barrow County, Georgia.
Delegation of authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the county to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize him to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Following: The term "following" means next after.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(8).
Gender: The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(4).
Joint authority: A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(5).
Keeper, proprietor: The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" include persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month: The term "month" means a calendar month.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(11).
Number: The singular or plural number shall each include the other.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(6).
Oath: The term "oath" includes affirmation.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(12).
O.C.G.A: The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the current official codification of Georgia laws, as amended.
Officers, departments, etc: Whenever titles of various officers, departments or other agencies are used, they refer to such officers, departments or agencies of Barrow County, Georgia.
Owner: The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person: The term "person" shall extend and be applied to organizations, associations, clubs, societies, companies, proprietorships, firms, partnerships, either general or limited, joint ventures, trusts and bodies politic or corporate, as well as to individuals.
State Law reference— "Person" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(14).
Personal property: The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding: The term "preceding" means next before.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(15).
Property: The term "property" includes real and personal property.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(16).
Public place: The term "public place" means any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available or accessible to the public, regardless of whether it is privately or publicly owned.
Real property: The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence: The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Seal: The term "seal" means the county seal.
Shall, may: The term "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
State Law reference— "May" defined, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(10).
Sidewalk: The term "sidewalk" means that portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by pedestrians.
State Law reference— "Sidewalk" defined, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(57).
Signature, subscription: The signature or subscription of a person includes a mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(19).
State: The terms "the state" and "this state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street: The term "street" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1(63).
Tenant, occupant: The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense: The present or past tense includes the future.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1(d)(7).
Week: The term "week" means seven days.
Writing: The term "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(23).
Year: The term "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3(24).
(Code 1993, § 1-2)
Sec. 1-3. - Statutory rules of construction.
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, the same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and other ordinances of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state.
(Code 1993, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Section catchlines and other headings.
The catchlines of the sections of this Code and the headings of articles and divisions thereof are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents and shall not be deemed to be titles or any part of the section, article or division, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, articles or divisions, including the catchlines and headings, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1993, § 1-4)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of Code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as those of ordinances existing on the adoption date of this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1993, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code, and of codes or other provisions adopted by reference in this Code, are severable, and if any such phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall be declared invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code and provisions adopted by reference, or the application thereof to other persons or circumstances, since the provisions would have been enacted by the board without the incorporation therein of any such invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1993, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Severability of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-7. - Penalties; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the county any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by the imposition of a fine not to exceed the maximum fine allowed by state law for a violation of the county ordinance, or by imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both. At such time as the state shall raise the maximum penalties allowed for violation of county ordinances, the maximum penalties that the county shall impose for violations of this Code or any other county ordinance shall be raised in parity with the state action, with no further amendment or modification to any existing Code or ordinance being necessary to maintain such parity with the state maximum penalty.
(b)
Each day any violation of this Code or other ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1993, § 1-7; Ord. of 7-28-1998(1))
State Law reference— Violations of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. §§ 15-10-60 et seq., 36-1-20; punishment for misdemeanors, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; nuisances, O.C.G.A. tit. 41.
Sec. 1-8. - Prosecution to be upon citation or accusation; service of citation or accusation.
(a)
Prosecutions for violations of county ordinances shall be upon citation as provided in section 1-9 or upon accusation by the county attorney or such other attorney as the board of commissioners may designate. Such attorney shall be the prosecuting attorney in cases tried upon accusation.
(b)
Accusations of violations of ordinances and citations shall be personally served upon the person accused. Each accusation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial. The accused shall not be arrested prior to the time of trial, except for the offenses of public drunkenness or disorderly conduct; but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall thereafter be arrested on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(Code 1993, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-62.
Sec. 1-9. - Use of citations.
(a)
Ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations.
(b)
Each citation shall state the time and place at which the accused is to appear for trial, shall identify the offense with which the accused is charged, shall have an identifying number by which it shall be filed with the court, shall indicate the identity of the accused and the date of service, and shall be signed by the county agent who completes and serves it.
(c)
Prosecutions for violations of ordinances upon citations shall be commenced by the completion, signing and service of a citation by any agent of the county who is authorized by the board of commissioners to issue citations. The original of the citation shall be personally served upon the accused, and a copy shall promptly be filed with the court.
(d)
No person shall be arrested prior to the time of trial, except for the offenses of public drunkenness or disorderly conduct; but any defendant who fails to appear for trial shall be arrested thereafter on the warrant of the magistrate and required to post a bond for his future appearance.
(Code 1993, § 1-9)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-63.
Sec. 1-10. - Prior offenses and rights not affected by Code; ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the county or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county or any evidence of the county's indebtedness.
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the county.
(4)
Any right or franchise granted by the county.
(5)
Any ordinance relating to specific public improvements or assessments therefor.
(6)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, providing for the levy or collection of taxes or for an annual budget or appropriations.
(7)
Any ordinance pertaining to land use, development regulations or zoning.
(8)
Any ordinance relating to the investment of county funds.
(9)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribing regulations, compensation, positions, classification, retirement and other matters pertaining to county officers or employees.
(10)
Any ordinance relating to subdivisions or dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the county.
(11)
Any ordinance naming, renaming, opening, closing, prescribing grades and the like, of streets, roads, bridges and other public ways.
(12)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, establishing fees, rates, deposits, service charges or other charges.
(13)
Any ordinance creating, establishing, prescribing or abolishing urban renewal projects.
(14)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, prescribing or providing traffic regulations at specific places, such as through streets, stop intersections, yield intersections, one-way travel, no left turns, no right turns, traffic control by electrical devices, truck routes, loading zones, no parking zones and limited parking zones.
(15)
Any ordinance, consistent with this Code, relating to animals.
(16)
Any ordinance creating special taxing districts.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
(Code 1993, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-11. - Unlawful alteration of Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions any part of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner, except by ordinance or other official act of the board or the general assembly, which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented.
(Code 1993, § 1-11)
State Law reference— False writings and documents, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-20.
Sec. 1-12. - Amendments to Code; new provisions.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in the Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the board to make the addition or amendment a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code. A reference to this Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, Barrow County, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not theretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, Barrow County, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or division or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which reads as follows: …." The new section (or division or article or chapter) may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1993, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-13. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the board. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the board during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances or parts thereof included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize ordinances and resolutions into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," and the like, as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinances incorporated in the Code; and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance or resolution sections inserted in the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1993, § 1-13)
Sec. 1-14. - Effective date of ordinances and resolutions.
Ordinances and resolutions which do not provide for their taking effect at a different time take effect immediately after their passage, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Code 1993, § 1-14)
State Law reference— Effective date of legislative acts, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-4.
Sec. 1-15. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinance or resolution in force before or at the time the ordinance or resolution repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed, or any right acquired or liability incurred under any ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1993, § 1-15)
State Law reference— Operation of laws, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-5.
