ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
DIVISION 1. - AGENDA AND REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING PROCEDURES

Sec. 2-1. - Meeting dates.
(a)
The board of commissioners will meet on the first and last Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. in the Madison County Board of Commissioners Public Meeting Room in the Madison County Courthouse, 91 Albany Avenue, Danielsville, Georgia.
(b)
Exceptions: The board of commissioners shall vote to change meeting dates when the first or last Monday falls on a holiday or ACCG training day.
(c)
Reserved.
(d)
In the event of crowded conditions, the board of commissioners the board of commissioners meeting may be moved to the main courtroom of the Madison County Courthouse.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 1(A); Ord. of 1-6-2014(1) ; Ord. of 1-5-2015(1) ; Ord. of 1-4-2016(1) ; Ord. of 1-9-2017(2) ; Ord. of 2-6-2017(1) ; Ord. of 12-4-2017(2) )
Sec. 2-2. - Agenda.
The chairman of the board of commissioners ("chair") will set the agenda for all meetings. Suggested agenda items must be submitted to the chair or the county clerk 12:00 p.m. Monday of the week immediately preceding the next scheduled agenda-setting meeting. The chair will accept all agenda requests timely submitted by an elected commissioner. The chair will consider and may accept agenda requests timely submitted by other elected and appointed officials, and by county department heads.
(1)
Publication. One week prior to each scheduled meeting, a copy of all agenda items will be sent to the newspaper designated as the legal organ of Madison County.
(2)
Debating format. Agenda items shall be debated only by members of the board (including the chair). A commissioner wishing to speak must be recognized by the chair prior to speaking. Comment or discussion from persons other than members of the board may be allowed by the chair if he, in his discretion, determines such comment would be constructive and germane to the discussion.
(3)
Non-agenda items. The agenda of the agenda-setting meeting shall be established by the chair, as set forth above. The agenda of the business meeting shall be as approved by the board at the agenda-setting meeting. However, the agendas for both meetings shall contain an agenda item titled "urgent matters." This agenda item will provide members and the chairman an opportunity to raise issues which have arisen since publication of the agenda, and which require action prior to the next regular business meeting. The member raising the issue shall describe the matter, including an explanation of why it must be acted upon prior to the next regular business meeting, why it could not have been placed on the published agenda, and shall make a motion, or ask another member to make a motion to add the matter to the agenda. If, and only if, said motion is seconded and unanimously approved by all members in accordance, then the matter may be discussed and acted upon as if it had been included on the published agenda. This agenda item may be used only for genuinely urgent matters that were not foreseeable prior to the deadline for placing matters on the published agenda, and not to circumvent the agenda publication requirements of O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1(e)(i). This procedure is to be used sparingly and only for genuinely urgent matters. Its use shall not become a regular feature of meetings.
(4)
Consent calendar. At its agenda-setting meeting, the board may place matters that are routine or non-controversial under an item titled "consent calendar" on the agenda of the business meeting. Those matters will be voted upon in gross and without debate at the business meeting, unless one or more commissioners (including the chair) objects thereto prior to that vote in the business meeting, in which case the matter(s) objected to will be deferred to the regular agenda of that same meeting for consideration in the same manner as any other regular agenda item.
(5)
Personnel issues. When any matter is on the agenda concerning a personnel issue, the human resources manager shall provide or make available to the chairman and to each commissioner, at least three days prior to the meeting, copies of any and all pertinent documentation, including, but not limited to, the employment application of persons being recommended for hire. The agenda shall describe the nature of the issue (hiring, discipline, etc.) and name the affected department of county government.
(6)
Citizen comment. The regular business meeting shall conclude with a citizen comment period, in which any person may address the board on the topic(s) of his or her choice. Each speaker is allowed a maximum of three minutes to speak. Members of the board shall not question the speaker nor make comment until the speaker has concluded his or her presentation. Any comments of a personal, insulting or derogatory nature shall be ruled out of order by the chair, and the speaker will forfeit any remaining time to speak.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 1(B); Ord. of 1-4-2016(1) ; Ord. of 2-2-2019(1) )
Sec. 2-3. - Method of conducting meetings.
Roberts Rules of Order is hereby adopted as the method by which the board shall conduct its business. Whenever any conflict between Roberts Rules of Order and board policy exists, the policy of the Board of Commissioners of Madison County, Georgia shall prevail.
(Ord. of 1-9-2012, § 1(C))
Secs. 2-4—2-20. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. adopted Feb. 6, 2017(1) , repealed § 2-4 in its entirety. Former § 2-4 pertained to minutes of county agencies and derived from Ord. of Jan. 9, 2012, § 1(D)).
