ARTICLE VI. - PACKAGE BEER AND WINE LICENSING AND REGULATIONS

Sec. 6-191. - Type of retail establishment.
No beer and/or wine shall be sold at retail except in establishments located in zoning districts in which these establishments are permitted as a conforming use or in districts where an existing establishment exists as a nonconforming use.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2060)
Sec. 6-192. - Hours and days of sale.
(a)
Retail package licensees shall not engage in the sale of beer and/or wine except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday and 12:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. on Sunday. The hours within which business may be carried on shall be determined by the standard time in force at the time of the sale thereof
(b)
Retail package beer and/or wine shall not be sold at any time in violation of state law, local ordinance or regulation, or special order of the governing authority.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2061; Ord. of 8-15-2011, § 1)
Sec. 6-193. - Use of tags or labels to indicate prices.
Retailers shall indicate plainly by tags or labels on the bottles or containers or on the shelf immediately below where the containers are placed the prices of all beer and wine exposed or offered for sale.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2062)
Sec. 6-194. - Quantity sales.
Single cans or bottles or other containers of alcoholic beverages may be sold.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2063)
Sec. 6-195. - License fee and amount to defray investigative costs to accompany application.
Each application for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a certified check for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate check or cash in the amount of $500.00 to defray investigative and administrative costs. If the application is denied and the license refused, or if the applicant withdraws his application prior to its being issued, the license fee shall be refunded; but the $500.00 cost paid for investigation and administrative cost shall be retained. However, any person applying for more than one license shall pay only one fee to defray investigative and administrative expenses, which fee shall be the largest of the investigative and administrative fees authorized under this Code. As to any applicant for a license under this article who has in existence at the time of making the new application an existing license under this article, there shall be no investigative and administrative fee.
(Ord. of 11-4-1996(3), § 7-2064)
Sec. 6-196. - Applicability of other articles of this chapter.
All sections included in articles I, V, and VIII of this chapter shall apply to the licenses and authorizations granted by this article. Any inconsistencies between the sections included in this article and articles I, V, and VIII of this chapter shall be resolved by the language of this article taking precedence over the language of articles I, V, and VIII.
(Ord. of 11-21-2011)
Sec. 6-197. - Wine/beer tasting license.
(a)
A wine/beer tasting license for the purposes of this section shall be limited to entities possessing a duly issued and valid retail wine license, retail beer license or both. Those entities shall be eligible to apply for a wine/beer tasting license to provide samples of wine and/or beer offered for sale at retail in the establishment to customers under the conditions set forth in this section. A license may only be granted for the specific type or types of samples (wine only, beer only, wine and beer) for which the applicant holds a valid retail license from the city.
(b)
Wine and/or beer sampling shall be on limited occasions, shall not be part of the core operations of the establishment, and shall be offered in conjunction with education classes and sampling designed to promote wine or beer appreciation and education.
(c)
Samples shall not exceed two ounces and no customer shall consume more than eight ounces in any two-hour period.
(d)
The educational classes shall not exceed two consecutive hours. All conditions of sampling set forth in this section shall apply to such classes.
(e)
Wine and beer bottles shall be opened by the licensee or an employee only, and samples shall be poured only by the licensee or an employee.
(f)
No open containers of wine or beer shall be removed from the licensed premises.
(g)
Such sampling and tasting is permitted within the enclosed portion of the premises only.
(h)
The annual fee for a wine/beer tasting license shall be $200.00. Said tasting license need only be applied for once and shall automatically renew when said retail wine license or retail beer license is renewed, provided, however, that the city may revoke or suspend such tasting license and/or impose such conditions on its operation at the city's discretion for violations of this Code or in furtherance of the health, safety, and welfare of the city's inhabitants.
(i)
Wine and beer tastings on Sundays are prohibited.
(Ord. of 4-20-2015(1))
Secs. 6-198—6-220. - Reserved.
