ARTICLE III. - TREASURER[4]
An Act to repeal an Act approved July 29th, 1925, entitled an Act to create a County Depository in and for the County of Bryan and prescribe the qualifications of the depository, and for other purposes; and to provide for the creation of the office of county treasurer for Bryan County, and prescribe his qualifications, duties, compensation; also to provide for the submission of a referendum to the qualified voters of Bryan County to determine whether or not the office of treasurer is to be continued, or whether the County Depository shall be substituted for the office of County Treasurer in said Bryan County, and for other purposes.

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1927 Ga. Laws (Act No. 103), page 511. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets, except that catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Specific repealer.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same, that from and after the passage of this Act the County Depository in and for Bryan County, created by the Act of July 28th, 1925, be and the same is hereby abolished.
Sec. 2. - Compensation.
Be it further enacted, that the treasurer of Bryan County shall receive, as full salary and compensation as such treasurer, the sum of $1,500.00 per year, payable monthly, which sum shall be paid by the county treasurer each month after such treasurer enters upon his duties as such.
(1937 Ga. Laws (Act No. 323), page 1259, § 1; 1959 Ga. Laws (Act No. 105), page 2716, § 1; 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 175), page 2601, § 1)
Sec. 3. - Duties and liabilities.
Be it enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the treasurer hereby selected, and his successors in office, shall perform all and singular the duties incident to the office hereby created, and shall also be subject to all the liabilities thereof.
Sec. 4. - Referendum.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that the election authorities of said Bryan County be and they are hereby directed to submit to the qualified voters of said county, at the next general primary election in the year 1928, the question as to whether the depository plan of handling the county's finances or whether the office of treasurer is preferred by the people of said county. All those voting in said election in favor of the county depository plan shall have written or printed on their ballots the words: "For the County Depository," while all those voting against said plan shall have written or printed on their ballots the words "For County Treasurer." And the result of said balloting shall be tabulated and the result declared in the same manner and by the same authorities as in the case of elections for county officers.
Sec. 5. - Repealer.
Be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that all laws and parts of law in conflict with the provisions of this Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
