ARTICLE XII. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION FROM COUNTY TAXES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS[13]
A BILL TO BE ENTITLED AN ACT
To provide a homestead exemption from Bryan County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $50,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for residents of that county who are 65 years of age or over; to provide for definitions; to specify the terms and conditions of the exemption and the procedures relating thereto; to provide for applicability; to provide for a referendum, effective dates, and automatic repeal; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:

Footnotes:
--- (13) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2006 Ga. Laws (Act No. 7993), page 4184. Amendments are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended sections. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original Act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines, numbering and capitalization has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets. Catchlines have been editorially supplied.

Sec. 1. - Granted.
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for county purposes" means all ad valorem taxes for county purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the Bryan County, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes to pay interest on and to retire county bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A., as amended [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40].
(3)
"Senior citizen" means a person who is 65 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this Act is made.
(b)
Each resident of Bryan County who is a senior citizen is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all Bryan County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $50,000.00 of the assessed value of that homestead. The value of that property excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an application with the tax commissioner of Bryan County giving the person's age and such additional information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination regarding the initial and continuing eligibility of such owner for such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide application forms for this purpose.
(d)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A., as amended [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-50.1]. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper application as provided in subsection (c) of this section, it shall not be necessary to make application thereafter for any year, and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the tax commissioner of Bryan County in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(e)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall not apply to or affect any state ad valorem taxes, county or independent school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes, or municipal ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes. The homestead exemption granted by this Act shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption applicable to Bryan County ad valorem taxes for county purposes.
(f)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.
Sec. 2. - Referendum.
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of Bryan County shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of Bryan County for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the November, 2006, state-wide general election and shall issue the call and conduct that election provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Bryan County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( ) YES
( ) NO"
Shall the Act be approved which provides a homestead exemption from Bryan County ad valorem taxes for county purposes in the amount of $50,000.00 of the assessed value of the homestead for residents of that county who are 65 of age or over?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and all persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, Section 1 of this Act shall become of full force and effect on January 1, 2007. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, Section 1 of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date. The expense of such election shall be borne by Bryan County. It shall be the election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 3. - Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 2 of this Act, this Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
Sec. 4. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
