SECTION 29.
(a)
Macon-Bibb County shall have power and authority to levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation and to levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law.
(b)
(1)
The commission, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate within the limits provided in subsection (a) of this section for the restructured government property tax; a due date; and in what length of time these taxes must be paid.
(2)
The commission, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due and provide for interest on late installments.
(c)
(1)
Macon-Bibb County shall have the power to levy any occupation or business taxes as are not prohibited by general state law. These taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in Macon-Bibb County or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent the persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to Macon-Bibb County to be so taxed. These taxes may be levied and imposed on a fixed rate or gross receipts basis or any combination thereof. The commission may classify businesses, occupations, professions, or callings for the purpose of these taxes in any manner as is reasonable and payment of these taxes may be compelled as provided in subsection (i) of this section.
(2)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, no occupation or business tax based on gross receipts shall be levied and imposed prior to the holding of a special public hearing thereon, and in no event shall the total revenue received from the imposition of an occupation or business tax based on gross receipts exceed in its first year the total revenue received the immediately preceding year from the occupation and business taxes levied.
(d)
Macon-Bibb County shall have the power to require individuals or corporations who transact business in Macon-Bibb County or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for these activities from Macon-Bibb County and to pay a reasonable fee for the license or permit where the activities are not now regulated by general state law in such a way as to preclude regulation by Macon-Bibb County. These fees may reflect the total cost to Macon-Bibb County of regulating the activity and if unpaid shall be collected as provided in subsection (i) of this section. The commission by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitate.
(e)
Macon-Bibb County shall have power and authority to impose and collect license fees and taxes on life insurance companies in the manner provided by Code Section 33-8-8.1 of the O.C.G.A. and on fire and casualty insurance companies in the manner provided by Code Section 33-8-8.2 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended.
(f)
Macon-Bibb County shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewer, sanitary and health services, and garbage and solid waste collection and disposal services, or any other services rendered inside and outside the corporate limits of Macon-Bibb County for the total cost to Macon-Bibb County of providing these services. If unpaid, these charges or fees shall be collected as provided in subsection (i) of this section.
(g)
Macon-Bibb County shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under any terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, these charges shall be collected as provided in subsection (i) of this section.
(h)
Macon-Bibb County shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by state law and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of Macon-Bibb County to tax or otherwise govern its local affairs.
(i)
The commission, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due Macon-Bibb County under this charter or general state law by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general state law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes, fees, or other revenues are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fa's.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes, fees, and other revenues personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes, fees, or other revenues imposed; revoking licenses issued by Macon-Bibb County for failure to pay any Macon-Bibb County taxes, fees, or other revenues; allowing exceptions for hardship; providing for the assignment or transfer of executions and collection of transferred executions; providing for the billing and collecting of principal, interest, and costs of delinquent executions as an addition to and a part of the annual ad valorem tax bill issued by the Macon-Bibb County tax commissioner.
(j)
The commission, by ordinance, shall prescribe the amount and terms of surety bonds conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of office of any officer or employee of Macon-Bibb County charged with the responsibility of handling moneys on a regular basis.
(k)
Macon-Bibb County shall have all power granted by general law to issue general obligation bonds. Such issuance shall be accomplished in the manner provided by general law.
(l)
Macon-Bibb County shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the general laws of the state. This bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the item the issue is undertaken.
(m)
Revenue bonds may be issued by Macon-Bibb County as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be repaid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
(n)
Macon-Bibb County may issue short-term notes as now or hereafter provided by state law.
(o)
(1)
In order to facilitate the financing of any improvements authorized by law, Macon-Bibb County may issue bonds of Macon-Bibb County in the aggregate amount of assessments for the improvement then unpaid, which bond or bonds and the interest thereon shall in no event become a liability of Macon-Bibb County or the mayor and the commission issuing them.
(2)
These bonds shall mature at a date and bear an interest rate as the commission may determine by ordinance but in no event shall the rate of interest exceed that which the assessments are to bear.
(3)
These bonds shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk of commission, shall have the impression of the corporate seal of Macon-Bibb County thereon, and shall be payable at a place designated by ordinance.
(4)
These bonds shall be designated as improvement bonds and shall, on the face thereof, recite the nature and location of the improvement for which they have been issued and shall recite that they are payable solely from assessments which have been levied upon the lots and tracts of land abutting upon or being the situs of the improvement made.
(5)
These bonds shall be sold at not less than par and the proceeds thereof applied to the payment of the costs and expense of the improvement for which the bonds were issued, or the bonds, in the amount that shall be necessary for that purpose, may be turned over and delivered to the contractor, in respect to the improvement at par value, in payment of the amount due on the contract, and the portion thereof which shall be necessary to pay other expenses, incident to and incurred in providing for the improvement, shall be sold or otherwise disposed of as the commission by ordinance shall direct.
