SECTION 23.
(a)
Until July 1, 2014, the restructured government shall operate under the funds remaining from the fiscal year 2013-2014 of the combined budgets of the City of Macon and Bibb County. The City of Macon and Bibb County shall adopt budgets for the period from July 1, 2013, and the date the consolidated government becomes effective. The finance departments of such entities shall develop a proposed budget for the consolidated government from the date such government is effective and the end of fiscal year 2014.
(b)
(1)
The first full 12 month budget of the unified government for fiscal year 2015 shall not exceed an amount equal to the combined fiscal year general operating budgets of the City of Macon and Bibb County, plus any funds required by accounting standards to be dissolved and made part of the general fund and any increases due to inflation as specified in the Consumer Price Index, but not including capital road improvement and other special revenue funds including, without limitation, special purpose local option sales tax and transportation special purpose local option sales tax funds.
(2)
The 12 month budget of the unified government for fiscal year 2016 shall not exceed an amount equal to 95 percent of the fiscal year 2015 general operating budget, plus increases due to inflation as specified in the Consumer Price Index, but not including capital road improvement and other special revenue funds.
(3)
The 12 month budget of the unified government for fiscal year 2017 shall not exceed an amount equal to 90 percent of the fiscal year 2015 general operating budget, plus increases due to inflation as specified in the Consumer Price Index, but not including capital road improvement and other special revenue funds.
(4)
The 12 month budget of the unified government for fiscal year 2018 shall not exceed an amount equal to 85 percent of the fiscal year 2015 general operating budget, plus increases due to inflation as specified in the Consumer Price Index, but not including capital road improvement and other special revenue funds.
(5)
The 12 month budget of the unified government for fiscal year 2019 shall not exceed an amount equal to 80 percent of the fiscal year 2015 general operating budget, plus increases due to inflation as specified in the Consumer Price Index, but not including capital road improvement and other special revenue funds.
(c)
The budget limits established by subsection (b) of this section may be exceeded by not more than 25 percent in any given year if extreme economic circumstances require or if additional expenditures for public safety purposes are needed but only by a vote of six of the nine commissioners at an open meeting after notice on the official website of Macon-Bibb County once a week for two consecutive weeks prior to the meeting and the hearing of public comments.
(d)
The tax assessments made by the board of tax assessors of Bibb County and the City of Macon as of the effective date of this charter shall constitute the basis for the assessment and collection of taxes of the commission for the calendar year in which this charter becomes effective.
