SECTION 30.
(a)
The sheriff of Bibb County in office upon the date the governing authority of the restructured government is installed shall become the sheriff and chief law enforcement officer of Macon-Bibb County. He or she shall serve for the same term and his or her compensation shall be fixed as heretofore provided by law. Subsequent elections for sheriff shall be upon the basis provided by state law for sheriffs generally. The sheriff of Macon-Bibb County shall execute the orders and processes of the courts, shall enforce executions issued by any officer or agency of Macon-Bibb County, shall maintain and operate the jail wherein state or federal prisoners are incarcerated, be responsible for the transport of prisoners, and shall perform such other duties as are provided for in Code Section 15-16-10 of the O.C.G.A. and the Constitution of this state.
(b)
(1)
The commission shall utilize the facilities, equipment, vehicles, records, and personnel of both the former Macon Police Department and the Bibb County Sheriff's Department in such manner as it shall deem necessary to ensure adequate protection of the lives and property of all of the citizens of Macon-Bibb County.
(2)
The commission in cooperation with the chief shall utilize the facilities, equipment, vehicles, records, and personnel of both the former Macon Fire Department and the Bibb County Fire Department in such manner as it shall deem necessary to ensure the most advantageous rating classification of the commercial, residential, and public property in Macon-Bibb County.
(c)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the administrative and service departments of the restructured government shall be created and established by ordinance and shall perform such functions, duties, services, and responsibilities as enumerated therein and as prescribed by administrative regulations.
(d)
The commission may by ordinance reorganize, combine, consolidate, or discontinue any department or agency of the restructured government subject to the jurisdiction of the commission and may by ordinance prescribe the functions and duties thereof and may establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices and positions of employment as necessary for the proper administration of the restructured government.
(e)
Except as provided by this charter or prohibited by the general laws of this state, all members of all boards, commissions, committees, panels, authorities, or other entities who were appointed by the board of commissioners of Bibb County or the governing authority of the City of Macon shall serve out the term of office to which such members were appointed. Except as provided by this charter or prohibited by the general laws of this state, the positions of director or administrative head, by whatever name known, of each department or entity of the governments of Bibb County and the City of Macon shall be abolished 90 days after the members of the commission take office under this charter. Such departments may be abolished, reestablished, reorganized, or restructured; new job descriptions shall be established as appropriate; and a director or administrative head shall be appointed for each department by the mayor. Any person who formerly occupied such position and any other person shall have the right to apply for any position thus created. The provisions of this subsection shall not result in the automatic termination from employment with the reorganized government of any such person and the provisions of Section 14 of this charter shall be applicable to any such person. On or after January 1, 2016, no person shall be eligible for appointment to any position as the administrative head of any department or agency of the restructured government unless such person meets such qualifications as may be established by the mayor. Each person serving as the administrative head of any department or agency of the restructured government shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor.
(f)
Notwithstanding any provision of this charter to the contrary, the Macon-Bibb County Hospital Authority shall continue to exist as provided by Article 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 31 of the O.C.G.A., the "Hospital Authorities Law," as now or hereafter amended, and the ordinances and resolutions activating such authority on the effective date of this charter; provided, however, that appointments and the filling of vacancies on such authority shall be made by the commission of Macon-Bibb County in accordance with applicable laws, ordinances, and resolutions.
