SECTION 14.
(a)
All of the executive powers of the restructured government are vested in the mayor. The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of Macon-Bibb County and shall be responsible for execution of the laws and policies of the restructured government and applicable state and federal laws. The mayor shall possess and exercise the following executive and administrative powers and duties:
(1)
To see that the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the restructured government and laws of this state are faithfully executed and enforced;
(2)
To exercise supervision over the executive and administrative affairs of the restructured government and to provide for the coordination of executive and administrative activities;
(3)
In addition to the appointments provided for in Section 16 of this charter, to appoint department heads, subject to the approval of a majority of the commission, to serve at the pleasure of the mayor;
(4)
To sign and approve deeds, bonds, contracts, and other instruments and documents in any case in which the legal instruments must be in writing or where the general laws of this state or ordinance or resolution of the commission so require;
(5)
To submit to the commission annually a draft of the recommended appropriations ordinance, the budget message, and the budget report and to submit annually to the commission a capital improvement program;
(6)
To conduct studies and investigations and to make recommendations to the commission for legislation concerning all matters relating to the restructured government and the welfare of its citizens;
(7)
To represent the restructured government in its intergovernmental relations;
(8)
To appoint the attorney, fire chief, municipal county judge, and county manager for the restructured government, with the approval of a majority of the commission, who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor;
(9)
To provide an annual financial audit of all authorities and provide a report of such audit to the commission; and
(10)
To perform any other duties as may be required by law, ordinance, or resolution.
(b)
(1)
Every ordinance adopted by the commissioners shall be presented promptly by the clerk of commission to the mayor after its adoption.
(2)
The mayor, within ten calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, shall return it to the clerk of commission with or without the mayor's approval or with the mayor's disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the clerk of commission; if the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 Noon on the tenth calendar day after its adoption; if the ordinance is disapproved, the mayor shall submit to the commissioners through the clerk of commission a written statement of the reasons for the veto. The clerk of commission shall record upon the ordinance the date of its delivery to and receipt from the mayor.
(3)
Ordinances vetoed by the mayor shall be presented by the clerk of commission to the commissioners at their next meeting. If the commissioners then or at their next meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of at least six members, it shall become law.
(4)
The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the commissioners over the mayor's veto as provided in this subsection. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to the commissioners as though disapproved and shall not become law unless overridden by the commissioners as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
(c)
The mayor shall be considered full time and he or she shall receive an annual salary of $100,000.00. In addition, the mayor shall be reimbursed for all actual expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in the performance of his or her official duties, subject to appropriations. Future changes in the salary and expenses of the mayor shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 36-35-4 of the O.C.G.A. and in accordance with the procedures of Code Section 36-5-24 of the O.C.G.A.; provided, however, that any increase in the salary or compensation of the mayor shall equal no more than one-half of the average percentage salary increase granted by the governing authority to restructured government employees over the last preceding three years.
(d)
For purposes of eligibility to receive employee benefits, the mayor shall be deemed to be a full-time employee.
