ARTICLE VII. - EXCISE TAXES
DIVISION 1. - BOOKS AND RECORDS

Sec. 4-161. - Inspection and audit of books and records.
The books and records of all wholesalers selling or delivering any wine, malt beverages and packaged distilled spirits to retailers made subject to this tax and the books and records of all retailers made subject to this tax shall be open for inspection and audit by the agents of Macon-Bibb County, to ensure compliance herewith and it shall be unlawful for any person to deny any authorized agent of Macon-Bibb County reasonable access to such books and records. Such books and records shall, for wholesalers, contain information showing deliveries of any of such beverages to persons upon whom the tax hereby assessed and levied is imposed separately, and the monthly reports of such wholesalers shall show, separately, deliveries made to each retailer, separately, so that sales of any of the beverages described in this Section may be identified with respect to each retailer upon whom the tax is imposed by this Section.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-162—4-180. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MALT BEVERAGES

Sec. 4-181. - Levy.
There is hereby imposed upon and levied against every licensed wholesale dealer in malt beverages an excise tax, in addition to the excise taxes presently levied by the state as follows:
(1)
Where malt beverages, commonly known as tap or draft beer, are sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, a tax of $6.00 on each container sold containing not more than 15½ gallons and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 15½ gallons.
(2)
Where malt beverages are sold in bottles, cans, or other containers, except barrel or bulk containers, a tax of $0.05 per 12 ounces and proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of 12 ounces.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-182. - Payment.
The excise tax levied in this division and imposed upon licensed wholesalers is levied and imposed with respect to malt beverages sold or distributed by such wholesalers in Macon-Bibb County to retailers doing business outside the corporate limits of municipalities in said Macon-Bibb County. The excise tax provided for in this division shall be paid by such licensed wholesale dealers to Macon-Bibb County on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of by such licensed wholesale dealer. Every licensee responsible for the payment of the excise tax imposed by this Section shall file a monthly report itemizing for the preceding calendar month the exact quantities of malt beverages, by size and type of container, for the month. Each wholesale licensee shall report and remit to Macon-Bibb County, on the tenth of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such beer and malt beverages are sold or disposed of, the tax imposed by this division.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-183—4-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PACKAGED DISTILLED SPIRITS

Sec. 4-201. - Levy.
There is hereby levied upon every dealer at retail of packaged distilled spirits a tax of $0.22 per liter of distilled spirits, and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter delivered by wholesalers to retailers whose place of business is located within the limits of Macon-Bibb County outside the corporate limits of municipalities therein.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-202. - Payment.
(a)
The taxes levied pursuant to this division shall be paid by the retailers upon whom such tax is levied to wholesalers at the time of delivery of the packaged distilled spirits to the retailer. It shall be the duty of each such retailer to pay and it shall be the duty of each wholesaler to collect the tax hereby levied, and wholesalers shall remit such taxes to Macon-Bibb County on or before the tenth of the month for all of such taxes paid by such retailers and collected by such wholesalers during the preceding calendar month.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any retail seller of packaged distilled spirits to receive and retain any beverages unless he shall have paid the tax levied in this division. It shall likewise be unlawful for any wholesaler of packaged distilled spirits to deliver any such beverage to any retailer thereof unless he shall concurrently with such delivery, collect the tax imposed hereby. It shall be unlawful for any wholesaler of such beverages to fail to remit, when due, the taxes levied hereby and collected by any such wholesaler. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person engaged as a retailer of such beverages to receive any of the same from another retailer of such beverages, unless the tax imposed and levied in this division has been paid. It shall further be unlawful for any retailer of such beverages from another retail store, whether such other store shall be owned by the receiving retailer or not, and irrespective of the location of such other store, unless the tax imposed in this division shall have been paid.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-203—4-210. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - WINE

Sec. 4-211. - Levy.
Retail dealers in wine shall pay a tax of $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter on all wine delivered by wholesalers to retailers whose place of business is located within the limits of Macon-Bibb County outside the corporate limits of municipalities therein. Such a tax is hereby levied upon each such retailer. The payment of such tax is made a condition precedent to the sale of wine, and no person shall sell any wine without paying the tax hereby levied.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-212. - Payment.
The tax hereby levied upon dealers at retail in wine shall be paid and collected in the same manner as the tax levied upon retail dealers of packaged distilled spirits as prescribed in Section 4-202, the terms of which are incorporated in this division and made a part of this Section for all purposes.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
