ARTICLE X. - REGULATION OF PLACEMENT, ABANDONMENT, LEAVING, KEEPING OR STORAGE OF JUNK AND SALVAGE MATERIALS OUT-OF-DOORS UPON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE LAND

Sec. 38-331. - Prohibition.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any property in the City of Union Point, Georgia to permit the accumulation on such property, any junk, debris or trash. The term junk, debris or trash shall be defined as including any discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scraped, ruined or junked personal property, including but not limited to motor vehicles, wheels, discarded furniture, mattresses, clothing, appliances, machinery, equipment and/or parts thereof. For purposes of this article, a motor vehicle shall be deemed to be discarded, dismantled, wrecked, scraped, ruined or junked personal property if it is not operational or exhibits any of the following characteristics; flat tires, no tires or wheels, parts missing from the body of the vehicle, no current tag.
(Ord. of 5-9-2006(1), § 1)
Sec. 38-332. - Enforcement.
Whenever it shall appear to the code enforcement officer or any other authorized member or representative of the City of Union Point, Georgia that section 38-331 of this article is being violated, the officer shall in writing, notify the owner and occupant or tenant in possession of the land on which the violation exists to abate such violation by removing the material or materials into an enclosed garage or other storage building within 15 days of the mailing of the notice.
(Ord. of 5-9-2006(1), § 2)
Sec. 38-333. - Abatement penalties.
If the owner or tenant of the premises on which the violation exists fails to abate the violation within the required time after notice, then the code enforcement officer or authorized member or representative of City of Union Point, Georgia, shall abate the violation, charge the cost thereof to the legal owner of the premises, and the legal owner of the premises shall be required by law, to pay the cost of such abatement to the city.
(1)
Each day such violation exists 30 days after receipt of notice of initial violation, shall be considered a separate offense of violation of this article.
(2)
Daily inspections of the premise in question will begin within 15 days of the mailing of the notice.
(Ord. of 5-9-2006(1), § 3)
Sec. 38-334. - Routine and random inspections.
Routine and random inspections of each and every premise within the City of Union Point, Georgia will be conducted year round by the code enforcement officer or authorized member or representative of City of Union Point, Georgia. Any premise found to be in violation of this article shall require abatement pursuant to section 38-332.
(Ord. of 5-9-2006(1), § 4)
Sec. 38-335. - Penalties.
A violation of this article is an infraction, and shall be treated as a misdemeanor. The minimum fines for the first offense shall be no less than $100.00 and no more than $500.00 for the second offense. Violations shall be heard in the Municipal Court of the City of Union Point, Georgia.
(Ord. of 5-9-2006(1), § 5)
