PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's charter as set forth in 1978 Ga. Laws, page 3966. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Municipalities generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-30 et seq.; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; home rule for municipalities, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ II; the Municipal Home Rule Act of 1965, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; powers of municipalities generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION, POWERS

Section 1.10. - Incorporation.
This Act shall constitute the whole Charter of the City of Union Point, repealing and replacing the charter provided by an Act of the General Assembly, approved August 15, 1904 (1904 Ga. Laws, page 678), and all amendments thereto. The City of Union Point, Georgia, in the County of Greene, and the inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the same name and style of Union Point, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
(1904 Ga. Laws, page 678)
Section 1.11. - Corporate Boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this City shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made, from time to time, in the manner provided by general State law. The current boundaries of the city, at all times, shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the city clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the Corporate Limits of the City of Union Point, Georgia." Alterations in these boundaries shall be indicated by appropriate entries upon or additions to such map or description. Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description, certified by the city clerk, shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the earlier map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
In addition to the area now embraced within the corporate limits of the City of Union Point, the following described property shall be included within said corporate limits:
TRACT I
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 140th District, G.M., Greene County, Georgia, Parcel 1 containing 11.88 acres, and Parcel 2 containing 9.76 acres, said parcels being divided by County Road No. 101, according to a plat of survey prepared by James M. Paul, Registered Surveyor, dated April 11, 1988, said plat being recorded in Plat Book 16, Page 80, Office of the Clerk of Greene County Superior Court; totalling 21.64 acres, but not to be included is Parcel 3 containing 1.34 acre, which was deeded to Richard E. Ogletree which is shown on said plat of survey. Said plat being incorporated herein by reference as containing the true and accurate description of said tract.
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 3752)
TRACT II
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 140th District, G.M., Greene County, Georgia, containing 3.402 acres, more or less, according to a plat of survey prepared by James M. Paul, Registered Surveyor, dated April 2, 1988, said plat being recorded in Deed Book 139, Page 65, Office of the Clerk of Greene County Superior Court; said plat being incorporated herein by reference as containing the true and accurate description of said tract and made a part hereof."
(1998 Ga. Laws, page 3752)
(d)
In addition to the area now embraced within the corporate limits of the City of Union Point, the following described property shall be included within said corporate limits:
All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 140th District, G.M. of Greene County, Georgia, and being a section of the right-of-way of Georgia Hwy. No. 77 between mile post 6.75 and mile post 7.00 as shown on a plat of survey for the City of Union Point, Georgia, by Gerald W. Torbert, Registered Land Surveyor #1717, which plat is recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide 434, Page 2, in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Greene County, Georgia, which said plat and the record thereof are hereby incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(1999 Ga. Laws, page 3806)
Section 1.12. - Powers and Construction.
(a)
The City of Union Point shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future Constitution and laws of this State as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter, including all powers of self-government, not specifically prohibited by general law or local Act of the General Assembly and including all powers enumerated in Section 1.14 of this charter.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Section 1.13. - Exercise of Powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agency, agencies, or employees shall be exercised as provided by this charter, by ordinance, or by pertinent laws of this state.
Section 1.14. - Enumeration of Powers.
The corporate powers of this city may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1)
to levy and to provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(2)
to levy and to provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions; and to license and regulate such privileges, occupations, trades and professions and to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes;
(3)
to make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
to appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(5)
to acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property in fee simple or lesser interest inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(6)
to accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source, for any purpose, related to the powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(7)
to condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, under Section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or under other applicable Public Acts as are or may be enacted;
(8)
to acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, penalties and withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay same; and the manner in which such remedies shall be enforced;
(9)
to grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services not to exceed periods of 35 years; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, standards, and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Public Service Commission;
(10)
to lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish, or change the grade of, abandon, close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of and light roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city;
(11)
to grant franchises and right-of-way throughout the streets and roads, and over the bridges and viaducts, for the use of public utilities;
(12)
to provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playground, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewerage treatment, airports, hospitals and charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Section 36.202 of the Code of Georgia, 1933 [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or other applicable Public Acts, as are or may be enacted;
(13)
to require real estate owners to repair and maintain, in a safe condition, the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands; and to enact ordinances, establishing the terms and conditions under which such repairs and maintenance shall be effected, including the penalties to be imposed for failure to do so;
(14)
to regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, heating, and air-conditioning codes; to regulate all housing, building, and building trades; to license all building trades; and to license the construction and erection of buildings and all other structures;
(15)
to provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(16)
to regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawnshops; the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors; the use and sale of firearms, and to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property;
(17)
to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers, itinerant trades, theatrical performances, exhibitions, shows of any kind whatever by taxation, or otherwise;
(18)
to license, tax, or regulate professional fortunetelling or palmistry;
(19)
to prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstruction upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(20)
to prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(21)
to regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(22)
to fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations, not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof;
(23)
to provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which may or might become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(24)
to provide for and regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse; and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse by others; to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials; and to provide for the sale of such items;
(25)
to levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse and trash collection, disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(26)
to levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on the users of sewers and the sewerage systems, a sewer service charge fee of sewer tax for the use of the sewers; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of same;
(27)
to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees, and to charge the same, from time to time, such fees to be levied on the users connecting with the sewerage systems;
(28)
to define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct or use of property which is detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city; and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(29)
to define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(30)
to provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city, and the administration, and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(31)
to establish minimum standards for, and to regulate, building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of inhabitants of the city; and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(32)
to provide that persons given jail sentences, in the municipal court, shall work out such sentence in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(33)
to adopt ordinances and regulations for the prevention of loitering, disorderly conduct, public drunkenness, and disturbing the peace in the corporate limits of the city; to prohibit the playing of lotteries therein; and to prohibit, or regulate by ordinance, such other conduct and activities within said city which, while not constituting an offense against the laws of this State, is deemed by the governing authority to be detrimental and offensive to the peace and good order of the city or to the welfare of the citizens thereof;
(34)
to regulate and license, or prohibit the keeping of, or running at-large of animals and fowl; to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; also to provide for their disposition by sale, gift or humane destruction when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinance enacted hereunder;
(35)
to regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(36)
to regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles;
(37)
to provide and maintain a system of pensions and retirement for officers and employees of the city;
(38)
to levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(39)
to enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations providing for services to be furnished and payments to be made therefor;
(40)
to create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all powers conferred upon or delegated to same;
(41)
to make, ordain, and establish such bylaws, ordinances, rules and regulations as shall appear necessary for the security, welfare, convenience, and interest of the city and the inhabitants thereof and for preserving the health, peace, order, and good government of the city;
(42)
to provide penalties for violations of any ordinance adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(43)
to exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen;
(44)
to establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or without the city and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(45)
to exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia. No enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the Constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - STRUCTURE OF GOVERNMENT
Legislative Branch

Section 2.10. - City Council Creation; Composition; Number; Election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and six councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by Article V of this charter.
Section 2.11. - Terms of and Qualifications for Office.
The mayor and councilmembers shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor and councilmember unless he or she shall have been a resident of the city for twelve months, immediately prior to the election of mayor or councilmembers; each shall continue to reside therein during said period of service; and shall be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
Editor's note— The city's memorandum of 9-27-2019 amended the terms of the Mayor and Councilmembers from two to four years, due to time constraints with the upcoming election.
Section 2.12. - Vacancy; Filling of Vacancy.
(a)
Vacancies. The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this charter or the general laws of the State.
(b)
Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in Article V.
Section 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The compensation of each councilmember shall be $100.00 per month, to be paid only upon attendance of the monthly regular council meeting. The mayor shall be compensated in the amount of $200.00 per month, to be paid only upon attendance of the monthly regular council meeting.
(1981 Ga. Laws, page 3535; Ord. of 11-8-2005, § 1; Res. of 11-10-2009)
Section 2.14. - Prohibitions.
(a)
Conflict of Interest. No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city, any agency, or political entity to which this charter applies shall knowingly:
(1)
Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or which would tend to impair independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties;
(2)
Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private interest when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his or her official duties or would tend to impair independence of judgment or action in the performance of his or her official duties;
(3)
Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which he or she is engaged without proper legal authorization, or use such information to advance the financial or other private interest of himself or others;
(4)
Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm, or corporation which to his or her knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever in business dealings with the governmental body by which he or she is engaged; provided, however, that an elected official, who is a candidate for public office, may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with such campaign;
(5)
Represent other private interests in any action or proceeding against the city or any portion of its government;
(6)
Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or the making of any contract with any business or entity in which he or she has a financial interest.
(b)
Disclosure. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before the city shall disclose such private interest to the city council. The mayor or any councilmember who has a private interest in any manner pending before the city council shall disclose such private interest and such disclosure shall be entered on the records of the city council and he or she shall disqualify himself or herself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of any agency or political entity to which this charter applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such entity shall disclose such private interest to the governing body of such agency or entity.
(c)
Use of Public Property. No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this charter applies shall use property owned by such government for personal benefit, convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies promulgated by the city council, or the governing body of such agency or entity.
(d)
Contracts Voidable and Rescindable. Any violation of this Section which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of another party to a contract or sale, shall render said contract or sale voidable as to that party, at the option of the city council.
(e)
Ineligibility of Elected Officials. Except where authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall hold any other elective or compensated appointive office in the city, or otherwise be employed by said government or any agency thereof, during the term of which he or she was elected. No former mayor and no former councilmember shall hold any compensated appointive office in the city until one year after the expiration of the term for which he or she was elected.
(f)
Political Activities of Certain Officers and Employees. No appointive officer and no employee of the city shall continue in such employment, upon qualifying as a candidate for election to any public office within the political subdivision of the City of Union Point, Georgia.
(g)
Penalties for Violation.
(1)
Any city officer or employee, who knowingly conceals such financial interest or knowingly violates any of the requirements of this Section, shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and upon conviction therefor shall be deemed to have forfeited his or her office or position.
(2)
Any officer or employee a the city who shall forfeit his or her office or position, as described in (1) above shall be ineligible for appointment or election to or employment in a position in the city government for a period of three years thereafter.
(Ord. of 12-9-1997, § 1)
Section 2.15. - Inquiries and Investigations.
The city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department or office thereof and for this purpose, may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Section 2.16. - General Power and Authority of the City Council.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by Article I.
Organization and Procedures
Section 2.20. - Organization Meeting.
The city council shall meet for organization on January first next after the time for the election, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members by an officer authorized by law to administer oaths, as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor or councilmember) of the City of Union Point and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Section 2.21. - Regular and Special Meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or three members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least forty-eight hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by general State law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made five days prior to such meeting.
Section 2.22. - Rules of Procedure.
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
Section 2.23. - Quorum; Voting.
The mayor or mayor pro tem, and four councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances or resolutions shall be taken by voice vote and the ayes and nays shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote. The affirmative vote of a majority of the councilmembers present and voting shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion except as otherwise provided in this charter. The mayor or mayor pro tem, if presiding, shall be entitled to vote only in the case of a tie vote.
Section 2.24. - Ordinance Form; Procedure.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Union Point hereby ordains…" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided in Section 2.26.
Section 2.25. - Action Requiring an Ordinance.
In addition to other acts required by general state law or by specific provisions of this charter to be done by ordinance, acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be done by ordinance.
Section 2.26. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise, regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services, or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within thirty days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted with or without amendment or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least four councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed thirty days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this Section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this Section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
Section 2.27. - Codes of Technical Regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the city clerk pursuant to Section 2.28.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the city clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
Section 2.28. - Signing; Authenticating; Recording; Codification; Printing.
(a)
The city clerk shall authenticate by his or her signature all ordinances adopted by the city council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all of the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Union Point, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers and departments of the city and made available for inspection by the public at the city hall. Copies of the code shall be made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with respect to reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
Office of Mayor
Section 2.30. - Election; Forfeiture; Compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until a successor is elected and qualified. He or she shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of this city for twelve months immediately prior to the election of mayor. The mayor shall continue to reside in this city during said period of service. He or she shall forfeit the office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for councilmembers. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for councilmembers.
Editor's note— The terms for Mayor and Council changed from two years to four years, as amended by State law.
Section 2.31. - Mayor Pro Tem.
The city council shall elect by majority vote from among the councilmembers a mayor pro tem who shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor upon declaration by the city council of the mayor's absence or disability.
Section 2.32. - Powers and Duties of the Mayor.
The mayor shall:
(a)
preside at all meetings of the city council;
(b)
preside at all meetings of the city for service of process and ceremonial purposes;
(c)
be the official head and spokesman for the city for service of process and ceremonial purpose;
(d)
sign as a matter of course all written contracts, ordinances and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(e)
participate in the discussion of all matters brought before the city council and vote on such matters only in the case of a tie vote;
(f)
appoint and remove, for cause, upon the recommendation and approval of appointment or removal by the council, all officers, department heads, and employees of the city except as otherwise provided in this charter;
(g)
recommend to the city council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he or she may deem expedient;
(h)
fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the city council shall by ordinance establish.
(Ord. of 12-9-1997, § 2; Ord. of 5-11-2004, § 1)
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES

Section 3.10. - Administrative and Service Structure.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of the city. The city council shall have the authority to delegate, by ordinance, responsibilities of an administrative nature to the city clerk/treasurer or any other such officers as it deems necessary.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or general State law, the directors of department and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation a prescribed by ordinance.
Section 3.11. - Boards, Commissions, and Authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasijudicial, or quasilegislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, term of office or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or general State law.
(c)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expense of the members of any board, commission or authority.
(d)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or general State law.
(e)
No member of a board, commission or authority shall assume office until he or she has executed, and filed with the city clerk an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(f)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of four members of the city council.
(g)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, or by general state law, each board, commission or authority of this city shall elect one of its members as chairman, one member as vice chairman and one member as secretary. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or general state law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs, copies of which shall be filed with the city clerk.
Section 3.12. - City Attorney; Duties.
The mayor may appoint, upon the recommendation and approval of appointment by the city council, a city attorney whose compensation shall be established by the city council by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the mayor, city council, and other officers, and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by ordinance or by virtue of his or her position as city attorney.
Section 3.13. - City Clerk/Treasurer; Duties.
The mayor shall appoint, upon recommendation and approval of appointment by the city council, a city clerk/treasurer who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk/treasurer shall be a custodian of the official city seal; maintain city council records required by this charter; receive, keep, and disburse all money of the city upon proper orders and maintain accurate records thereof; prepare and submit to the city council an annual statement covering the financial conditions of the city; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Section 3.14. - Personnel Administration; Position Classification and Pay Plans.
The city council shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be adopted by ordinance. Said plans may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salaries of individual employees except by amendment of said pay plan. For purposes of this Section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Section 3.15. - Personnel Polices.
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this charter concerning (1) the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; (2) the administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotions and transfer of employees within the classification plan; (3) hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leave of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoff shall be effected; (4) such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and (5) such other personnel policies as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
(Ord. of 12-9-1997, § 3; Ord. of 5-11-2004, § 2)
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— The city's original charter, as set forth in 1978 Ga. Laws, page 3966, provided for a recorder's court of the city. In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1, the term "recorder's court" has been changed to "municipal court."

Section 4.10. - Creation; Name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Union Point.
Section 4.11. - Judge of Municipal Court.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a judge who shall be appointed by the city council and serve at the pleasure of the same.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he or she shall have attained the age of twenty-one years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia.
(c)
Compensation of the judge shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
The judge of the municipal court may be removed for cause by a vote of four members of the city council.
(e)
Before entering upon the duties of office, the judge shall take an oath given by the mayor that he or she will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office of judge of the municipal court to the best of his or her ability without fear, favor, or partiality.
Section 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Section 4.13. - Jurisdiction; Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of all city ordinances.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed a fine of ten dollars or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction, not exceeding a fine of three hundred dollars, or imprisonment for ninety days or both, or to sentence any offender upon conviction to labor in a city work gang or on the streets, sidewalks, squares, or other public works for a period not exceeding ninety days.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violation of State law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizances to insure the presence of those charged with violations before said court, and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of person charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his or her appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and his or her sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be, on order of the judge, declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited, which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the authority to bind prisoners over to the appropriate court when it appears by probable cause that a State law has been violated.
(g)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(h)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties, necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summons, subpoena and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by general State law.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all of the jurisdiction and powers throughout the entire area of this city granted by general State laws to mayors, municipal and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic offenses.
Section 4.14. - Appeal.
The right of appeal and any bond as may be required to secure the costs of appeal to the Superior Court of Greene County from the municipal court, shall lie in the same manner and under the same procedure as generally prescribed for appeals and appeal bonds from the probate court. Any person who fails to file an appeal within ten days of the date of his or her conviction shall be deemed to have waived any such right. An appeal to the superior court shall be a de novo proceeding.
Section 4.15. - Rules of Practice.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, the city council may adopt in part or in toto the rules and regulations for procedure in the superior court under the general laws of the State of Georgia. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least forty-eight hours prior to said proceedings.
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Section 5.10. - Applicability of General State Law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 34A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 885) [Georgia Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.11. - Regular Elections; Time for Holding.
On the first Wednesday in December, 1978, and on that day biennially thereafter, there shall be an election for the mayor and city council. The terms of office shall begin at the time of taking the oath of office as provided in Section 2.20 of this charter.
Section 5.12. - Vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term.
(2001 Ga. Laws, page 3646)
Section 5.13. - Other Provisions.
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council shall, by ordinance, prescribe such rules and regulations it deems appropriate to fulfill any options and duties under the Georgia Municipal Election Code, Title 324A of the Code of Georgia of 1933 (1968 Ga. Laws, page 885) [Georgia Elections Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
Section 5.14. - Nonpartisan Elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
Section 5.15. - Election by Plurality.
The candidate receiving a plurality of the votes cast for any city office shall be elected.
Section 5.16. - Grounds for Removal.
The mayor, councilmembers, or other elected officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(a)
misfeasance or malfeasance in office;
(b)
conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
(c)
failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this charter or by law;
(d)
knowingly violate any express prohibition of this charter;
(e)
abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(f)
failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this charter or by State law.
Section 5.17. - Procedure for Removal.
Removal of an officer described above may be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(a)
By the vote of four councilmembers after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Greene County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(b)
By information filed in the Superior Court of Greene County as provided by general State law.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE
Taxation and Fees

Section 6.10. - Ad Valorem Tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the State and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, and providing governmental services; for the repayment of principal and interest of general obligations: and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Section 6.11. - Millage Rate; Due Dates; Payment Methods.
The city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city ad valorem tax, a due date, and in what period of time such taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the due date.
Section 6.12. - Occupation and Business Taxes.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to levy reasonable occupation or business taxes on both individuals and corporations doing business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.18.
Section 6.13. - Licenses; Permits; Fees.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations doing business in the city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general State law so as to preclude regulation by the city. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18. The city council, by ordinance, may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety, and welfare necessitates.
Section 6.14. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys and for the purposes of railroads, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television, gas companies and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration; provisions; terms, including whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive; and the consideration for such franchises. Provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of fifty years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book to be kept by him. The city council may provide, by ordinance, for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
Section 6.15. - Service Charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees and charges for sewer, sanitary, and health services or any other services rendered within and without the corporate limits of the city, which reflect the total cost to the city of providing such services. Unpaid fees and charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18.
Section 6.16. - Special Assessments.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such special assessments shall be collected pursuant to the provisions in Section 6.18.
Section 6.17. - Construction of Language; Other Taxes.
The city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by State law, and the specific mention of any right, power or authority in this Article shall not be construed as limiting, in any way, the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
Section 6.18. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes and Fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city pursuant to Sections 6.10 through 6.17 by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by general State law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi. fas.; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes and fees imposed; revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; allowing exceptions for hardship; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Section 6.19. - (Reserved)
Bond and Other Indebtedness
Section 6.20. - General Obligation Bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program or venture authorized under this charter or general state law. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuances by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Section 6.21. - Revenue Bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as State law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program or venture for which they were issued.
Section 6.22. - Short-term Notes.
The city must obtain and repay any short-term loans between January 1 and December 31 of each year or as otherwise provided by present or future State law.
Accounting and Budgeting
Section 6.30. - Fiscal Year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, and activity of the city government, unless otherwise provided by general State or federal law.
Section 6.31. - Preparation of Budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget and a capital improvements program and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content and form of such budget and program.
Section 6.32. - Submission of Operating Budget to City Council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than sixty days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city treasurer shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The operating budget and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk for public inspection.
Section 6.33. - City Council Action on Budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed by the city treasurer, except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by State law or by this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves and revenues.
(b)
The city council, by ordinance, shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the 31st day of December of each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal on a month-to-month basis with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Such adoption shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose or activity.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations, or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
Section 6.34. - Tax Levies.
Following the adoption of the operating budget, the city council shall levy, by ordinance, such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by said ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the city.
Section 6.35. - Changes in Appropriations.
The city council, by ordinance, may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular, or special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unappropriated surplus in the fund to which it applies or on a revised estimate of revenue.
Section 6.36. - Independent Audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the State or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing cost to the public.
Contracting Procedures and Property Management
Section 6.40. - Contracting Procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(a)
it is in writing;
(b)
it is drawn by or submitted to and reviewed by attorney, designated by the city council, and, as a matter of course, is signed by him or her to indicate such drafting or reviews; and
(c)
it is approved or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of minutes required under this charter.
Section 6.41. - Sale of City Property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as provided by general State law, except as otherwise provided in subsection (d).
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to and abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley or public place or in settlement of any alleged damages sustained by said abutting or adjoining property owner or owners. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(d)
The city council is hereby authorized and empowered to sell, lease or otherwise transfer any land belonging to the city and held by the city for purposes of industrial development. Such contracts of sale, leases or transfers shall be entered into upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall determine to be in the best interest of the city. Such lands may be sold, leased or otherwise transferred without the necessity for taking bids or advertising such lands for sale, lease or transfer.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 7.10. - Eminent Domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and, for such purposes, property may be taken under Chapter 36-202 of the Georgia Code [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], subject to such amendments as shall be enacted, or any other Georgia law applicable now or provided in the future.
Section 7.11. - Official Bonds.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such official bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by State law.
Section 7.12. - Existing Ordinances; Resolutions; Rules; and Regulations.
Existing ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of this city, not in conflict with this charter shall continue in force, until repealed or amended by subsequent enactment of the city council. The city council shall review all such provisions and shall readopt, repeal or amend each, so that a codification as provided in Section 2.28(b) is begun.
Section 7.13. - Existing Personnel and Officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect until the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition. The mayor and council who are in office on the effective date of this Act shall serve for the remainder of the terms of office to which they were elected.
Section 7.14. - Pending Matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be dealt with by such city agencies, personnel or officer as may be provided by the city council.
Section 7.15. - Penalties.
The violation of any provisions of this charter, for which a penalty is not specifically provided for herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
(1983 Ga. Laws, page 4061)
Section 7.16. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is intended to be mandatory and the word "may" is intended to be permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural and the masculine the feminine and vice versa.
Section 7.17. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter, unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Section 7.18. - Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Union Point in the County of Greene, approved August 15, 1904 (1904 Ga. Laws, page 678), as amended, is hereby repealed in its entirety and all amendatory Acts thereto are likewise repealed in their entirety. All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this charter are hereby repealed.
