Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; local regulation of alcohol generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words shall have the meanings indicated. The definitions in O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 apply to this chapter.
Employee means any person who performs any service for a licensee at the business location of the licensee whether for compensation or otherwise when the services performed directly relate to the sale of wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor).
Package store license means a license issued to a retail dealer for the sale of malt beverages, wine, and/or distilled spirits (liquor) in sealed containers, for consumption off the premises, generally known as sale of malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits (liquor) "to go."
Private club means a bona fide private club as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-7-1.
Retail dealer means any person, firm, partnership, or corporation selling malt beverages, wine and/or distilled spirits (liquor) directly to the consumers.
Wholesale dealer means any person, firm, partnership or corporation selling malt beverages, wine, and/or distilled spirits (liquor) to retailers and not directly to the consumers.
(Code 1986, §§ 4-1, 4-36)
Sec. 4-2. - Familiarity with chapter.
All holders of a license for the sale of wines, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall keep a copy of this chapter in his premises and instruct any person working there with respect to the terms herein. Each licensee and each person selling wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquor) shall at all times be familiar with the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1986, § 4-26)
Sec. 4-3. - License fee for wholesale dealers.
The license fee for a wholesale dealer is as established by the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-37)
State Law reference— Restriction on license fee for sale of malt beverages at wholesale, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43.
Secs. 4-4—4-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-25. - State and federal laws.
No licensee shall engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine in violation of any federal law.
(Code 1986, § 4-23)
Sec. 4-26. - Hours of operation.
No licensee shall engage in the sale of malt beverages or wine and/or distilled spirits (liquor) between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. This section does not authorize Sunday sales.
(Code 1986, § 4-22)
State Law reference— Sales on Sundays, election days and Christmas day, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-27. - Separation of stock.
All retail dealers for the sale of wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall separate the stock of wine, malt beverages and/or distilled spirits (liquor) from other nonalcoholic merchandise by a partition at least five feet in height, by storing the wine or malt beverages in coolers which can be locked, or by storing same in a separate room so such stock may be closed off and locked at all times when the sale is prohibited, and the same shall be closed off and locked at such times.
(Code 1986, § 4-24)
Sec. 4-28. - Consumption on premises.
No retail dealer for the sale of wine, malt beverages, and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall allow wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquor) to be consumed on its premises. Any dealer with a license shall be held responsible for such consumption by his customers or other parties. This section shall not apply however to holders of a private club license.
(Code 1986, § 4-25)
Sec. 4-29. - Signs.
The licensee shall be allowed to advertise the sale of the beverages herein licensed by use of signs under the following conditions:
(1)
Only one sign visible from outside the premises, whether attached to the building or otherwise will be allowed advertising the sale of beverages hereby licensed for each business establishment which signs may be doubled faced;
(2)
The maximum dimensions for any such sign shall be four feet in height and six feet in width;
(3)
Any such sign may be a lighted sign;
(4)
All signs advertising the sale of wine, malt beverages or distilled spirits (liquors) must be located on the premises of the establishment selling same.
(Code 1986, § 4-27)
Secs. 4-30—4-46. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSES

Sec. 4-47. - License required.
No malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits (liquor) shall be sold legally in the city, except under a license granted by the council as herein provided.
(Code 1986, § 4-2)
State Law reference— License requirements, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-3, 3-5-40, 3-6-40.
Sec. 4-48. - Application.
(a)
Filing. All applications for licenses for the sale of malt beverages, and/or distilled spirits (liquor) shall be filed in person by the applicant at city hall and shall consist of a completed form furnished for application purposes by said city and fully in accordance with the criteria hereinafter set out.
(b)
Completion. All applications for licenses on the forms provided by the council shall be completely and fully executed and each question on the application form shall be answered accurately and under oath. Failure of an applicant to furnish complete answers, as well as failure to comply with all other prerequisites as herein provided shall be cause for denying the application with prejudice. The willful making of any false statement as to a material matter on any application for a license to sell malt beverages, wine or distilled spirits (liquor) which shall be found to be false shall constitute grounds for denying said license or for revocation of any license issued.
(c)
Execution. If the applicant is an individual, he shall sign the application personally. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, each member or partner shall execute it. If the applicant is a corporation, it shall be executed by at least two officers of the corporation. If the applicant is a private club, it shall be executed by at least two officers of said club.
(Code 1986, §§ 4-3—4-8)
Sec. 4-49. - Application and license fee payment.
There shall be attached to the application form, a bank money order, certified check, or like remittance for an amount as established by the city as an application fee. There shall also be attached to the application form, a bank money order, certified check, or like remittance for the full amount of the fee for the license applied for. The license fee shall not be prorated for a part of a year but the full license fee shall be payable for any part of the year. The applicant shall not be entitled to a return of any portion of the application fee so paid, and the application fee shall not be considered as a part of any license fee due upon issuance of any license. If the license applied for should not be issued, the applicant shall be entitled to a return of the full amount of the license fee so paid.
(Code 1986, § 4-9)
Sec. 4-50. - Publication of notice.
All persons shall advertise their intention to make application to the commission for issuance of any license hereunder, and shall be responsible for paying the cost of the advertisement. Such advertisement shall contain a statement of intention to apply for a license and the type of license to be applied for, shall show the location of the proposed licensed business, and the name of the applicant. If the applicant is a firm or partnership, such notice shall show the names of the members or partners; and if a corporation, shall show the names of the corporate officers; and if a private club, the names and addresses of all officers. Said advertisement shall follow generally the format to be furnished by the clerk, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance from which this article is derived, as exhibit "A." Such notice shall be published twice, on different days, in the official newspaper of the county in which legal advertisements are published, and shall be published prior to the filing of the application. The applicant shall obtain an affidavit of publication and attach such affidavit to the application. The advertisement herein prescribed shall not be required of applicants where the license sought is a renewal of a prior license issued to the same applicant for the same location.
(Code 1986, § 4-10)
Sec. 4-51. - Fingerprints to be furnished.
As a prerequisite to the issuance of any license hereunder, the applicant shall furnish to the police chief of the city and the sheriff of the county, a complete set of fingerprints which shall be forwarded by said chief or sheriff to the state. In the case of private clubs, the officers of said club shall provide fingerprints for each officer.
(Code 1986, § 4-4)
State Law reference— Fingerprints to be required, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2(c).
Sec. 4-52. - Character.
In no event shall any license be granted to any person where any of the individuals, or officers as the case may be, have within ten years immediately prior to the filing of the application:
(1)
Have entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere; or
(2)
Shall have suffered any conviction of any kind;
involving particularly, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages of the state or of any locality or of the United States, if such plea or conviction tends to indicate that the applicant will not maintain the operation for which he is seeking a license in conformity with local, state or federal laws. A license issued pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be revoked if the licensee (individually, or employee, partner or officer of a licensee corporation is convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a crime of the state or any locality or the United States. Private clubs shall submit a list of all dues paying members to the council.
(Code 1986, § 4-5)
Sec. 4-53. - Distances from certain uses.
No application for any license to sell malt beverages or wines shall be approved where the proposed location of the business is one from which sale of such beverages is prohibited by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
(Code 1986, § 4-11)
Sec. 4-54. - Payment of fees and taxes.
No application hereunder shall be approved unless the applicant therefor shall have fully paid all license fees and ad valorem taxes due to the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-12)
Sec. 4-55. - Prerequisites.
No application hereunder shall be approved until all the prerequisites as set out in this article shall have been fully and completely complied with.
(Code 1986, § 4-13)
Sec. 4-56. - Other issuance criteria.
In determining whether or not any application hereunder shall be granted, in addition to all other provisions of this article, the following shall be considered by the council in the public interest and welfare and no application shall be approved when it is found that:
(1)
The applicant or any employee of the business is then afflicted with alcoholism or other clearly defined alcoholic beverage use problems, and no person known to the licensee to be so afflicted may at any time be employed by the licensed business.
(2)
The applicant or any employee of the business has at any time previously had a malt beverage or alcoholic beverage license revoked at any location, whether in the county or otherwise.
(3)
The applicant has any interest in or is employed at more than two other such licensed businesses at any separate locations.
(Code 1986, § 4-14)
Sec. 4-57. - Public hearing.
After receipt of the application and all other prerequisites as herein set out, the clerk shall consider the application and, if all criteria have been satisfied, shall issue the license applied for. If, however, the clerk, upon consideration, finds that the application fails to satisfy any of the requirements for issuance of a license, the clerk shall take no action at such time, but shall notify the applicant in writing, mailed to the address given in the application; or shall have the written notification personally delivered to the applicant with an affidavit of service returned to the clerk so that such notification shall be received at least three days prior to a day and time certain set for a hearing before the full council. Said notice shall state:
(1)
Specifically the time, date and place for the hearing;
(2)
Complete statement of the requirements which have not been satisfied and upon which the council proposes to take action;
(3)
That the applicant must appear in person and has the right to be accompanied by an attorney;
(4)
The names of any witnesses at the time known who may be called by the council and that the applicant shall have the right to confront and cross examine such witnesses;
(5)
That the applicant has the right to call any witnesses in the applicant's behalf who may be examined by the council, and that all testimony and evidence shall be introduced and given under oath and shall be recorded.
If the applicant fails to appear and has not been excused or granted an extension of time, the application shall be denied. If the applicant appears and fails to satisfy the requirements of this article as stated in the written notice, the application shall be denied. If the applicant appears and all requirements are satisfied, the application shall be granted.
(Code 1986, § 4-15)
Sec. 4-58. - Rehearing.
Any person aggrieved by any act or omission of the council with respect to its proceedings as to issuance of a license hereunder shall have the right to move for a rehearing and reconsideration of the matter. Such motion for rehearing:
(1)
Shall be filed within five days after the action complained of;
(2)
Shall be in writing; and
(3)
Shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the council has erred.
If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing, except after a grant thereof by the council for good cause shown. If the matter of which complaint is made was not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the council shall afford a rehearing within 20 days after the filing of the motion, with at least three days' written notice having been served upon the protestant, which notice shall state the protestant has the right to appear in person at a date and time specified in said notice, and that the protestant shall be allowed to be represented by counsel, and may introduce oral and documentary evidence under oath, and may examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Code 1986, § 4-16)
Sec. 4-59. - Various fees.
The fees for the following licenses shall be as established by the city:
(1)
Package store license in malt beverages.
(2)
Package store license in wine.
(3)
Package store license in distilled spirits (liquors).
(4)
Private club license.
(Code 1986, § 4-35)
State Law reference— Restriction on certain license fees, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-50.
Sec. 4-60. - Transferability.
No license issued hereunder shall be assignable or transferrable; and in the event a licensed business is moved, sold or closed, or no longer directly operated by the licensee, the licensee shall immediately surrender his license to the clerk. All licenses shall be issued to specific persons and for a specific location. Changes of business interest from one party at interest named in the original application to another party at interest named in the original application shall not be deemed a transfer of a license. In such instance, however, the licensee shall notify the clerk in writing of such change, and fully disclose the facts in connection therewith, within ten days from the date of such change.
(Code 1986, § 4-17)
Sec. 4-61. - Renewals.
The issuance of a license hereunder for any calendar year or portion thereof shall not be deemed to vest the licensee or any person having an interest in the business with any right to automatic renewal thereof. Upon the expiration of any license by its terms, the licensee shall be required to apply for a new license for the succeeding calendar year, except as otherwise provided herein. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a licensee from applying for a renewal license for the succeeding calendar year within a period of 60 days next prior to the expiration of the license then held.
(Code 1986, § 4-18)
Sec. 4-62. - Term of license.
All licenses shall be issued on a calendar-year basis and shall expire, regardless of the date of issuance, on December 31 of each year.
(Code 1986, § 4-19)
Sec. 4-63. - Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Grounds. The following shall be considered just cause for suspension or revocation of any license issued hereunder:
(1)
The performance of any act prohibited by this article or the failure to perform any act required by this article as well as the violation of any state, local or federal law, particularly, but not limited to, those involving alcoholic beverages; if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws. If such act, omission or violation is done by any agent, servant, employee, or officer of the licensee, the lack of knowledge on that part of the licensee or the lack of authorization for such act or omission or violation shall be no defense.
(2)
The entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the conviction of any licensee, partner, or any officer of a licensee corporation, with respect to a charge or violation of any of the laws of the state or the United States or any locality particularly but not limited to those involving alcoholic beverages; if such violation tends to indicate that the licensee will not maintain the operation of the business licensed in conformity with state, local or federal laws.
(3)
The occurrence, on three or more occasions within any 12-month period on the licensed premises, of fights, disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of the peace, and other similar conduct whether the same is committed by the licensee or by customers or by others.
(b)
Actions which may be taken. Any license issued pursuant to this article may be suspended for a definite length of time, revoked, and/or part of the entire personal performance bond posted by the licensee forfeited, after hearing as provided hereinafter.
(c)
Notice and hearing. No license shall be revoked, suspended or any bond forfeited, unless the licensee shall have been given a hearing of which at least three days' written notice shall have been given to the licensee. Such notice shall specify the time, place, and purpose of the hearing, and a statement of the charges upon which such hearing shall be held. At such hearing, the licensee shall have the right to appear in person and by attorney, and both the city and the licensee shall have the right to present evidence under oath, introduce documentary evidence, cross examine witnesses and generally present evidence of violations of this article or absence thereof.
(d)
Time limitation on new licenses. When a license has been suspended or revoked under the provisions of this article, no application for a new license for the same location will be received for a period of 12 months thereafter; and no application for a new license from the licensee involved shall be received for a period of 24 months.
(e)
Rehearing. Any person aggrieved by any act or omission of the council, with respect to its proceedings involving revocation or suspension or forfeiture of any part of a bond under this article, shall have the right to move for a rehearing. Such motion for rehearing shall be filed within five days after the act or omission complained of, shall be in writing, and shall outline the manner in which such protestant believes that the council has erred. If the motion relates to a matter as to which evidence has already been heard, no additional evidence or argument shall be permitted on the motion for rehearing, except after a grant thereof by the council. If the matter of which complaint is made is not the subject of a prior hearing at which the protestant was permitted to be present and heard, the council shall afford a hearing within ten days after the filing of the motion, of which three days' written notice shall be given to the protestant, at which rehearing the protestant shall be allowed to appear, be represented by counsel, introduce oral and documentary evidence, and examine and cross examine witnesses.
(Code 1986, §§ 4-30—4-34)
Secs. 4-64—4-84. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCISE TAXES

Sec. 4-85. - Taxes on wine.
(a)
It is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer or distributor, distributing wine to retail dealers within the city, a wine tax: the base wine tax rate shall be $0.22 per liter and any containers of more than or less than one liter shall be taxed on a proportionate basis.
(b)
The tax herein levied shall be paid by each wholesale dealer who has sold wine within the city. Each wholesale dealer or distributor shall file a report by the tenth of each month itemizing, for the preceding calendar month, the exact quantity of all wine by size and type of container for the month sold within city. Each such wholesale dealer or distributor shall remit to the city, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which such sales were made, the amount of tax due in accordance with this article.
(c)
No decal, stamp or other identifying marking shall be required to be affixed to wine sold within the city.
(d)
The wine taxes herein provided shall be in addition to any license fee, tax, or charge which may now be imposed upon the business of selling wine at retail or wholesale within the city.
(e)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance, as provided for hereinabove, shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report and remittance were due, and a further penalty of 25 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period, or any portion thereof, during which such report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Code 1986, § 4-38)
State Law reference— Wine tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60.
Sec. 4-86. - Tax on malt beverages.
(a)
Except as provided hereinafter, there is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling malt beverages within the city an excise tax in the amount of $0.05 per 12 ounces, or proportionately thereof, of malt beverages sold by such wholesale dealer within the city.
(b)
All malt beverages sold in or from a barrel or bulk container, and being commonly known as tap or draft beer, shall not be subject to the excise tax provided for hereinabove, but in lieu thereof, there is hereby imposed upon such wholesale dealer selling malt beverages, within the city, an excise tax of $6.00 for each barrel or bulk container having a capacity of 15½ gallons sold by such wholesale dealer within the city, and a like rate for fractional parts thereof.
(c)
The excise taxes provided for hereinabove shall be in addition to any license fee, tax or charge which may now be imposed upon the business of selling malt beverages at retail or wholesale within the city.
(d)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance shall render a wholesale dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount due during the first 30-day period following the date such report or remittance were due, and a further penalty of 25 percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period or any portion thereof, during which said report and remittance are not filed. The filing of a false or fraudulent report shall render the wholesale dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 50 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(Code 1986, § 4-39)
State Law reference— Malt beverage tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80 et seq.
Sec. 4-87. - Tax on distilled spirits (liquors).
(a)
Except as provided hereinafter, there is hereby levied and imposed upon each wholesale dealer selling distilled sprits (liquor) within the city, an excise tax in the amount of $0.22 per liter and any containers of more than or less than one liter shall be taxed on a proportionate basis.
(b)
Each wholesale dealer who has sold distilled spirits (liquor) within the city shall file a report by the tenth day of each month itemizing, for the preceding calendar month, the exact quantities of all distilled spirits (liquor) by size and type of container for the month sold within the city. Each such wholesale dealer shall remit to the city, on the tenth day of the month next succeeding the calendar month in which sales were made, the amount of tax due in accordance with this article.
(c)
No decal, stamp, or other identifying marking shall be required on distilled spirits (liquor) sold within the city.
(Code 1986, § 4-40)
State Law reference— Distilled spirits tax, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-80.
