Sec. 221. - (Restatement) Assessments for street improvements.
First. That the mayor and commission of the City of Waycross shall have full power and authority, in their discretion, to grade, pave, macadamize, and otherwise improve for travel and drainage of the streets and public lanes and alleys of said city; to put down curbing, cross-drains, crossings, and otherwise improve the same.
Second. In order to fully carry into effect the authority above delegated, the mayor and commission of the City of Waycross shall have full power and authority to assess the cost of paving and otherwise improving the sidewalks, including two-thirds of the necessary curbing for the same, on the real estate abutting on the street and on the side of the street on which the sidewalk is so improved.
Third. That the mayor and commission of the City of Waycross shall also have full power and authority to assess one-third of the cost of grading, paving, macadamizing, constructing side-drains, cross-drains, crossings, and otherwise improving the roadway or street proper, on the real estate abutting on each side of the street improved; the real estate abutting on each side shall pay two-thirds of the entire cost, and any street railroad company, or other railroad company, having tracks running through or across the streets of said city shall be required to pave, macadamize, or otherwise improve said street, as the mayor and council may prescribe, the width of its track and for one foot on each side of every line of track now in use, or that may hereafter be constructed by said company; provided that the law authorizing the assessment on the abutting property owners of the whole cost of paving sidewalks, including two-thirds of the cost of curbing, is in no way affected hereby.
Fourth. The mayor and commission of the City of Waycross shall have full power and authority to adopt by ordinance such a system of equalizing assessments on real estate for the above purposes, and for the amounts above set forth, as may be just and proper, estimating the total cost of each improvement made, and prorating the cost thereof on the real estate according to its frontage on the street or portion of the street so improved. It shall be wholly discretionary with the mayor and commission of the City of Waycross whether said improvements shall be done or not.
Fifth. The amount of the assessment on each piece of real estate shall be a lien on said real estate from the date of the passage of the ordinance providing for the work and making the assessment.
Sixth. The mayor and commission of the city shall have authority to enforce the collection of the amount of any assessment so made for work, either upon the streets or sidewalks, by execution to be issued by the city treasurer against the real estate so assessed and against the owner thereof at the date of the ordinance making the assessment, which execution may be levied by the marshal of the said city upon such real estate, and after advertisement and other proceedings, as in cases of sales for taxes, the same may be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder, and such sale shall vest absolute title in the purchaser, and the marshal of the City of Waycross shall have full authority to eject the occupants of said property and place the purchaser thereof in possession; provided, that the defendants shall have the right to file an affidavit denying that the whole or any part of the amount for which said execution issued is due and stating what amount he admits to be due, which amount so admitted to be due, with all costs, shall be paid and collected before the affidavit is received, and the affidavit shall be received for the balance, and such affidavit so received shall be returned to the superior court of Ware County and there tried and the issue determined as in cases of illegality, subject to all the pains and penalties provided in cases of illegality for delay.
Seventh. The mayor and commission of the City of Waycross shall have full authority to pave, or contract for paving of, the whole surface of the street, without giving any street railway company or other property holder or occupant of the street the option of having the space to be paved by itself, or by a contractor at its instance; the object of this section being to prevent any delay in the progress of the work, and to secure a uniform quality of workmanship.
Eighth. That the lien given to the City of Waycross for assessments upon abutting property, and also on the property of street railroad companies for street or sidewalk paving, curbing, grading, or drainage, shall have rank and priority of payment next in point of dignity to the liens in favor of the City of Waycross for taxes due said city, such liens or priority of payment to exist from the date of the passage of the ordinance authorizing the execution of the work in each case.
Ninth. The mayor and commission shall have full authority to prescribe by ordinance such other rules as may, in its discretion, be necessary to grade, pave, macadamize, drain or curb any of the streets of the city; to enforce by execution the payment of the cost thereof against adjacent property owners and railroad companies; to prescribe how the owners or agents thereof shall be served with notice by personal service or by publication.
(1905 Ga. Laws (Act No. 424), p. 1220, ยง 1)
