Chapter 4 - ADVERTISING
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 4-1—4-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS

Sec. 4-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Distribute means and includes the scattering, throwing, handing out, or any other means of dispensing circulars, handbills or other printed matter.
(Code 1977, § 3-18)
Sec. 4-20. - Exceptions to article.
The provisions of this article shall in no way affect the usual and customary sales and delivery of newspapers and periodicals, and shall not prevent the distribution of advertising matter in business buildings or private residences.
(Code 1977, § 3-19)
Sec. 4-21. - Inhabited private premises.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited except in a manner that will prevent the handbill from being blown about or scattered by the elements. This section does not apply to premises posted as provided in section 4-22.
(Code 1977, § 3-22)
Sec. 4-22. - Prohibited where properly posted.
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on such premises a sign bearing the words: "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agents," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of such premises do not wish to have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any handbills left upon such premises.
(Code 1977, § 3-23)
Sec. 4-23. - Restricted in public places.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hand out or distribute or sell any handbill in any public place; except that a handbill may be personally delivered to any person willing to accept the same.
(Code 1977, § 3-25)
Sec. 4-24. - Placing on motor vehicles.
No person shall distribute advertising or printed matter of any kind by placing the same in or on, a motor vehicle that is parked on any street or in other public places, except in a manner that prohibits the matter from being blown about or scatted by the elements.
(Code 1977, § 3-26)
