Chapter 101 - GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 101-1. - Applicability of chapter 1.
The provisions of chapter 1 of this Code apply to this subpart.
Sec. 101-2. - Status.
Subpart B of this part is a codification of ordinances pertaining to land development. Subpart A of this part is a codification of other ordinances. Failure to include an ordinance in this subpart that relates to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in this subpart that does not pertain to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance. Inclusion of an ordinance in subpart A of this part that pertains to land development does not excuse noncompliance with such ordinance.
Secs. 101-3—101-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING AND ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Zoning, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; planning, O.C.G.A. § 36-70-1 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 101-23. - Effect on existing planning and zoning authorization.
(a)
The ordinance from which this article is derived shall become effective upon its adoption by the city commission. All powers and authority granted by this article to the city planning department and city-county planning commission and city board of zoning appeals shall be cumulative.
(b)
Any ordinance of the city commission heretofore legally enacted under the authority of any state statute or constitutional provision shall remain in force and effect after the ordinance from which this article is derived becomes effective until the city commission has brought such ordinance into conformity with the provisions of this article. Provided, however, that after the ordinance from which this article is derived becomes effective, such ordinance shall be administered under the provisions of this article and any amendment to any such ordinance shall be made under the provisions of this article. Any reference in the existing zoning and subdivision ordinances to the "Waycross Planning Commission" is hereby amended to read "Waycross-Ware County Planning Commission."
(Code 1977, § 25-16; Ord. No. 82-17, § 7, 7-20-1982)
Secs. 101-24—101-49. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT

Sec. 101-50. - Creation and direction.
The city commission does hereby create and establish the department of planning for the city. A planning director shall be responsible for supervising and administering the affairs of the planning department. The director shall be appointed by the city manager and confirmed by the city commission.
(Code 1977, § 25-22; Ord. No. 82-17, § 1, 7-20-1982)
Sec. 101-51. - Principal powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the planning department to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the development of incorporated Waycross. In particular, the planning department shall have the power and duties to:
(1)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city commission, after consideration and recommendation by the city-county planning commission, a comprehensive plan or parts thereof for the development of incorporated Waycross.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city commission, after consideration and recommendation by the city-county planning commission, a zoning ordinance and zoning maps for incorporated Waycross.
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city commission, after consideration and recommendation by the city-county planning commission, regulations for the subdivision of land within incorporated Waycross, and to aid in administering the regulations that may be adopted.
(4)
Perform such other planning functions and duties as may be required by the city commission.
(Code 1977, § 25-23; Ord. No. 82-17, § 2, 7-20-1982)
Sec. 101-52. - Plans, reports and recommendations; additional powers.
The city planning department may make, publish and distribute maps, plans and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of incorporated Waycross to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, education, professional and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the city commission programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the planning department, within a reasonable time, such available information as it may require for its work. In general, the planning department shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of incorporated Waycross.
(Code 1977, § 25-24; Ord. No. 82-17, § 3, 7-20-1982)
Secs. 101-53—101-77. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - CITY-COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 101-78. - Creation; appointment of members.
(a)
Established; composition. There is hereby established the city-county planning commission which shall consist of nine members. The members appointed by the city commission shall be residents of the city and the members appointed by the county board of commissioners shall be residents of unincorporated Ware County.
(b)
Terms; vacancy. The term of each member shall be three years and appointments shall rotate so that a majority of five members will alternate each year between the two governing bodies. In the event a vacancy occurs, such vacancy shall be filled by the respective governing body for the unexpired term.
(Code 1977, § 25-30; Ord. No. 82-17, § 4, 7-20-1982)
Sec. 101-79. - Organization; rules; staff; officers.
One member of the city-county planning commission elected by the members of the city-county planning commission shall serve as chairman of the planning commission for a term of one year or until his successor is elected. The city-county planning commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman or at such other times as the planning commission may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be public record. The county planning director will serve as the secretary of the city-county planning commission.
(Code 1977, § 25-31; Ord. No. 82-17, § 5, 7-20-1982)
Sec. 101-80. - Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the city-county planning commission to consider and otherwise review and comment on all comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and all plans for physical, social and economic growth prepared by the city planning department. In particular, the planning commission shall have the power and duty to review, comment and make recommendations on:
(1)
Comprehensive plan or parts thereof for the development of incorporated Waycross;
(2)
Zoning ordinance and zoning maps for incorporated Waycross;
(3)
Regulations for the subdivision of land within incorporated Waycross, and to aid in administering the regulations that may be adopted.
The city commission may refer any matter or class of matters to the city-county planning commission, serving incorporated Waycross, before final action thereon by the city commission.
(Code 1977, § 25-32; Ord. No. 82-17, § 6, 7-20-1982)
