Appendix C - FRANCHISES[1]
EXPAND
Date Subject Title
2-28-1957 Electricity Ordinance granting permission and consent to the Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, in constructing, maintaining, and extending poles, lines and appliances for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.
6-7-1960 Cable TV An ordinance granting permission and consent to Georgia Theatre Company Community Antenna Service, successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, in constructing, maintaining, and extending poles and operating lines of community television antenna service for receiving television programs from all television stations in this area, and the right to transmit all entertainment programs, including movies, plays, and sporting events.
6-1-1965 Electricity Ordinance granting permission and consent to the Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, in constructing, maintaining, and extending poles, lines and appliances for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.
7-20-1965 Gas An ordinance granting to Atlanta Gas-Light Company, a Georgia corporation, hereinafter designated as "Grantee", its successors and assigns, the right and franchise to use and occupy the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, for constructing, maintaining, renewing, repairing, and operating a gas works and gas distribution system, and other necessary means for manufacturing, transmitting, distributing and selling of manufactured, natural or comingled gas within and through the City of Waycross, Georgia; and fixing the terms and conditions of such grant.
9-21-1971 Telephone An ordinance authorizing the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company to use the public streets of the City of Waycross, Georgia, for the purpose of erecting, constructing, maintaining and operating lines of telephone and telegraph thereon and thereunder.
11-19-1974 Cablevision Ord. No. 74-24: An ordinance granting permission and consent to Waycross Cable Co., Inc., its successors and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, in constructing, maintaining, and extending poles and operating lines for a cable television system via microwave for receiving television programs from all television stations in this area, and the right to transmit all entertainment programs, including movies, plays, and sporting events; and for other purposes.
1-22-1975 Cablevision Ord. No. 75-2, § 1: An ordinance amending sections 1 and 2 of Ord. No. 74-24, enacted November 19, 1974.
12- 2-1975 Cablevision Ord. No. 75-9, § 1: An ordinance amending section 2 of Ord. No. 74-24, enacted November 19, 1974.
12-16-1975 Electricity Ord. No. 75-10: An ordinance granting permission and consent to Georgia Power Company, its successors, lessees and assigns, to occupy the streets and public places of the City of Waycross in constructing, maintaining, operating and extending poles, lines, cables, equipment and other apparatus for transmitting and distributing electricity, and for other purposes.
10-17-1978 Cablevision Ord. No. 78-29: An ordinance amending paragraph 6 of section II of Ord. No. 74-24.
10-6-1998 Gas An ordinance granting to Atlanta Gas Light Company, a Georgia Corporation, hereinafter designated as "Grantee," its successors and assigns, the right and franchise to use and occupy the streets, avenues, roads, public highways, alleys, lanes, ways, parks, and other public places of the City of Waycross, Georgia, for constructing, maintaining, renewing, repairing, and operating a gas works and gas distribution system, and other necessary means for manufacturing, transmitting, distributing and selling of manufactured, natural or commingled gas within and through the City of Waycross, Georgia; and fixing the terms and conditions of such grant; to set an effective date; to repeal conflicting ordinances; to provide for severability; to declare an emergency and for other purposes.
10-6-1998 Gas An ordinance to amend an ordinance effective July 20, 1995, granting Atlanta Gas Light Company (hereafter company) a franchise for the use of rights-of-way and other public property for the purpose of distributing gas within the City of Waycross, Georgia, so as to modify the franchise fee calculation provisions; to repeal conflicting laws; to provide an effective date; and for other purposes.
7-5-2005 Electricity An ordinance amending franchise granted to Georgia Power Company.
  Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The following is an enumeration of franchise ordinances enacted by the city:
