Sec. 4.36 - Exceptions and Exemptions from Overlay Districts.
Applications for land disturbance permits, site development plan review, plat approval, sign permits, and building permits for properties within the designated Overlay District shall meet all of the requirements of the base zoning district in which the parcel is located and all provisions of the designated Overlay District unless such application meets one of the following exceptions:
A.
Alterations to existing single-family dwellings located within a subdivision of record zoned AG, ER, RS-180, RS-110, RG-75, or PUD with a final plat approved prior to enactment of this section shall not be subject to the provisions of this Overlay District, provided that such alterations are limited to the following actions:
1.
Additions of heated floor area less than 50 percent of the existing floor area.
2.
Construction of an accessory structure or garage not to exceed 750 square feet in floor area.
3.
Improvements to outdoor space, such as swimming pools, courts for basketball, tennis or handball, gazebos, trellises, patios, decks, balconies, and similar non-occupied structures, or interior renovations.
B.
Construction of a single-family dwelling on an existing lot of record zoned AG, ER, RS-180, RS-110, RG-75, or PUD within a single-family residential subdivision with a final plat approved prior to enactment of this section shall not be subject to the provisions of this Overlay District Ordinance provided that such new construction shall be of similar floor area, materials and design as the single-family dwellings on adjacent lots in the same subdivision. Similar floor area for the purposes of this subsection means not more than 20 percent greater than the average heated floor area of the structures located on the abutting residential properties.
C.
Replacement, reconstruction, restoration, or repair of a single-family dwelling that is destroyed or damaged by fire or other natural occurrence shall not be subject to the provisions of this Overlay, provided that such dwelling is located on an existing lot of record zoned for a residential use within a single-family residential subdivision with a final plat approved prior to enactment of this section, and provided that such new construction shall be of similar floor area, materials and design as the single-family dwellings on adjacent lots in the same subdivision. Similar floor area for the purposes of this subsection means not more than 20 percent greater than the average heated floor area of the structures located on the abutting residential properties.
D.
Construction, rehabilitation, restoration and repair of a non-residential structure existing prior to the enactment of this section shall not be subject to those provisions of the Overlay until such time as the cumulative effect of all permits on a single parcel result in an increase in the total floor area of the existing structure by 20 percent or 5,000 square feet, whichever is less.
