Sec. 4.106 - Nonconforming clause.
A.
Nonconforming Use. A legal use in existence on the effective date of this District enactment or any amendment thereto may be continued even though such use does not conform with the use provisions of the zoning district in which said use is located, except as otherwise provided in this section.
1.
Change of use. A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use. A change in tenancy or ownership shall not constitute termination or abandonment of the nonconforming use, provided that the use itself remains unchanged and is continuously maintained and operated.
2.
Discontinuance or abandonment. When a nonconforming use of a major structure or major structure and premises in combination is entirely discontinued for 180 days, the structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the regulations of the overlay district, unless the cessation of the nonconforming use is a direct result of government action impeding access to the property, an act of God, or a direct result of major renovations or maintenance of existing space.
3.
A nonconforming use of land shall not be enlarged, expanded or moved. However, expansion and relocation of uses such as signage, parking, storage, or security posts may be permitted on property under common ownership at time of the adoption of this Overlay District. Variations to this standard may be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Applications for such variances shall be processed by Community Development and the Board of Zoning Appeals in the same manner as required in Article 10, Boards and Commissions of the Clayton County Zoning Code.
B.
Nonconforming structure.
1.
A legal structure in existence on the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance or any amendment thereto that could not presently be built under the provisions of this chapter because of restrictions on building area, lot coverage, height, minimum yard setbacks, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot shall be deemed a legal non-conforming structure.
2.
No legal nonconforming structure shall be enlarged, or structurally altered, in a way that increases the nonconformity, except as expressly permitted in this District.
3.
Alteration of legal nonconforming structures occupied by permitted, conforming uses may be allowed for improvement or modification, provided that the structure may not be enlarged and the alterations must either comply with this District or result in a reduction in site or the structure's nonconformity.
(Ord. No. 2018-129, ยง 1, 12-18-18; Ord. No. 2019-37, ยง 2, 3-19-19)
