Sec. 4.44 - Residential Land Uses.
A.
Prohibited uses. The following residential land uses shall be prohibited within the Panhandle Area Overlay District:
1.
Residential townhomes, except within a Planned Unit Development (PUD)
2.
Residential condominiums
3.
Multi-family residential apartments
B.
Maximum Density. The maximum density of any major subdivision shall not exceed 1.25 dwelling units per acre. The maximum allowable number of lots shall be calculated as such:
Gross site area (acres) × 1.25 Dwelling units per acre = Maximum number of lots
Example: 20 acres × 1.25 Dwelling units per acre = 25 lots, maximum
C.
Architecture and Appearance Standards. The Architecture and Appearance Standards (AA) in Article 6.7 of the Zoning Ordinance shall apply to the Panhandle Area Overlay District with the addition of the following standards:
1.
Building materials for all exterior front facades shall consist of 75 percent brick, stone, hard-coat stucco, fiber cement siding, cementious materials, and/or similar material approved by the Director of Community Development.
2.
A minimum of 30 percent of each facade of any primary structure other than front façade shall be constructed of brick, stone or hard-coat stucco, fiber cement siding, cementious materials, and/or similar material approved by the Director of Community Development unless a craftsman style construction. A continuous minimum 3- foot high brick/masonry water table that is consistent with other masonry materials on the front façade maybe provided to meet the 30 percent.
3.
Duplication of exterior color combination of brick, stone, and/or cementious materials on structures shall not be permitted on contiguous lots.
4.
Vinyl products shall only be used for soffits, caves and fascia of residential structures.
5.
All buildings shall have pitched roofs. The roof pitch shall be a minimum of 6:12 over the primary structure.
6.
Roofing materials for a dwelling shall be composed of either composition shingles, clay or concrete tile, metal, cedar shingles or shakes. Composition shingles shall be architectural style, with a certified performance of at least 25 years. Roofs covering the main body of the structure shall be symmetrical gables, hip-style, or mono-pitch (shed) style.
7.
Each dwelling unit shall utilize at least four of the following architectural design features:
a.
Dormers;
b.
Bay or bow windows;
c.
Garage setback at least 20 feet behind the facade of the principal structure;
d.
Side- or rear-entry garage;
e.
Covered porch entry (covered front porch);
f.
Transoms and sidelights;
g.
Off-sets on building face or roof (minimum two feet);
h.
A roof with a pitch greater than 8:12 and a minimum overhang of 12 inches on all sides;
i.
Columns, pillars, or posts on facade;
j.
Shutters and other window decorations;
k.
Arched or Palladian windows;
l.
Hip and gable roof lines.
8.
All single-family detached dwellings shall have a minimum two-car attached garage which is enclosed on all sides, and be architecturally consistent with the primary structure.
9.
At least 40 percent of houses within all major subdivisions in the Panhandle Area Overlay District shall have side- or rear-entry garages.
10.
All single family detached dwellings shall have a front porch that is a minimum of six feet deep and 48 square feet in area.
11.
Chain-link fencing shall not be visible from any right-of-way.
12.
Building materials, architectural features and colors of exterior finishes of accessory structures shall be consistent with the primary structure.
D.
Sign Standards. The sign standards established within Article 8, Sign Standards (SS), of the Zoning Ordinance shall be applied to all properties within the Panhandle Area Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
Subdivision entrance signs shall be constructed of brick, stone and/or metal.
2.
Each sign face for subdivision entrance signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area.
E.
Landscaping Standards. The landscaping standards established in Article 6.34, Landscaping Standards (LA) and the Tree Protection Ordinance shall apply to all residential properties within the Panhandle Area Overlay District, along with the following additional requirements:
1.
All areas surrounding subdivision entrance signs must be landscaped.
2.
Where a subdivision borders a public right-of-way, a landscaped greenbelt buffer of a minimum of 50 feet in width shall be provided along the right-of-way to provide screening. Screening may be provided utilizing a decorative fence and/or landscaped berm. This greenbelt shall be provided in addition to yard setback required by the Zoning Ordinance.
3.
A landscaped strip of a minimum of 25 feet in width shall be required along all boundaries of subdivisions which do not border a public-right-of-way. This landscaped strip shall be provided in addition to yard setbacks required by the Zoning Ordinance.
4.
Landscaped strips and greenbelts may consist of ground cover, shrubs, trees, and/or decorative fencing or walls. Areas of exposed earth shall not be allowed.
5.
All landscape materials required by this shall be maintained by the property owner or property owner's association. Such maintenance shall keep landscape materials healthy, neat and orderly in appearance and free of litter and debris. Landscape materials that die or that, in the opinion of the County Arborist or his/her designee, are diseased shall be replaced by the property owner or property owner's association within the earliest planting season.
(Ord. No. 2018-130, § 15, 12-18-18)
