ARTICLE IV. - CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Section 15 of Act No. 945 (Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399) repealed an Act approved April 2, 1963 (Ga. Laws 1963, p. 2747), which pertained to the civil service system and was formerly codified herein as Art. IV, §§ 4-1—4-8, as amended by those Acts as are listed in the Related Laws Comparative Table. Sections 1—13 of Act No. 945 have been included herein as Art. IV, §§ 4-1—4-13 at the editor's discretion.

Sec. 4-1. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Clayton County Civil Service System Act."
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 1)
Sec. 4-2. - Established; employees subject to system; exempt employees.
(a)
Pursuant to a certain amendment to Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph I of the Constitution, proposed by 1963 House Resolution 50 (Ga. Laws 1963, p. 681) and continued in effect by an Act approved March 28, 1986 (Ga. Laws 1986, p. 5573), there is established a civil service system of personnel administration, to be known as the Clayton County Civil Service System.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by constitutional, general or local statutory law, or the Clayton County Civil Service System Act, all positions held by county employees in the following offices and departments shall be covered under, and be subject to, the jurisdiction of the civil service system: Airport at Tara-field; buildings and maintenance; central services; clerk of the superior and state courts; commissioners; communications; community development; computer center; correctional institution; court administrator; district attorney; emergency management; extension service; finance; fire; fleet maintenance; juvenile court; legal; library services; magistrate court; narcotics; parks and recreation; personnel; police academy; police; probate court; refuse control; safety; sheriff; solicitor; state court; superior court; tax commissioner; tax assessors; transportation and development; voter registration; and any other office or department created hereafter. In accordance with provisions of Georgia law, once positions of employment are covered under, and become subject to, the jurisdiction of the civil service system, such positions shall not thereafter be removed from such coverage and jurisdiction.
(c)
All employees of Clayton County may be placed under the civil service system except elected officials; appointed boards; members of commissions and authorities; probationary employees; temporary employees; part-time employees; judges of the juvenile court; judges of the magistrate court; the chief administrator; the chief operating officer; the economic development officer; the staff attorney; deputy clerks of the superior and state court; deputy tax commissioners; court reporters; law clerks; department directors; department heads; and other employees expressly exempt by law.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 2; Ord. No. 95-22, § I, 4-4-95; Ord. No. 2007-159, § 1, 10-16-07; Ord. No. 2016-176, § 1, 12-20-16)
Sec. 4-3. - Civil service board established; hearing officer established; composition; qualifications; requirements.
(a)
There is established a board for the civil service system to be known as the civil service board. The board shall be composed of five members who currently are and have been residents of Clayton County for two years or more preceding their appointment and who are high school graduates, registered voters, and current on all tax payments at the time of appointment. No member of the board shall hold any elected political office of Clayton County or be an employee of Clayton County when appointed or while serving on the board. Each board member shall attend annually at least one course of study or seminar dealing with personnel matters offered by the Clayton County Personnel Department, the Georgia Local Government Personnel Association or such other similar organization authorized to conduct continuing personnel education.
(b)
For the review of appeals pertaining to disciplinary actions (dismissal, demotion or suspension) of permanent classified employees for cause, the chairman of the Board of Commissioners shall establish a pool of persons eligible to serve as hearing officers. The procedure for appointing a hearing officer to hear the review of appeals pertaining to disciplinary actions shall be established by the chairman of the Board of Commissioners. In no event shall the hearing officer be a current official or employee of Clayton County or have been an official or employee of Clayton County within ten years prior to serving as a hearing officer. In the discretion of the chairman of the Board of Commissioners, the approval of the board of commissioners may be sought for any and all such pool of persons.
(c)
A person shall be eligible for appointment as a hearing officer if such person meets the qualifications of subparagraphs (1) or (2) below:
(1)
Baccalaureate degree in personnel administration, labor relations, public administration, political science or business administration, and a minimum of three (3) years' experience in investigating or reviewing employment grievances or similar complaints; or
(2)
Admitted to the practice of law in the State of Georgia and an active member of the State Bar of Georgia, plus a minimum of three (3) years' experience in the practice of law.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 3; Ord. No. 98-19, § 1, 3-17-98; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 1, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-4. - Term of office; appointment; successors; posts; selection of chairperson and vice-chairperson.
Members of the board shall be appointed for terms of office as provided in this Act and shall serve until their terms expire. Members of the board shall be selected and appointed in the following manner:
(1)
Two members, designated as serving in Posts 1 and 2, shall be selected by the employees of Clayton County, other than elected officials, who are under the civil service system. Such selection shall be by a majority expression to the governing authority of Clayton County by appropriate ballot, and the persons so selected shall be appointed by the governing authority of Clayton County after being advised of the selection. The selection shall be by secret ballot, at two polling places, under the direction and procedures established by the personnel department;
(2)
One member, designated as serving in Post 3, shall be selected by concurrence of the judge of probate court, clerk of superior court, district attorney, tax commissioner, and sheriff; and
(3)
Two members, designated as serving in Posts 4 and 5, shall be selected by a majority vote of the governing authority of Clayton County.
The term of office of the members first selected to serve in Posts 1 and 2 of the board shall expire on December 31, 1995. The initial member to serve in Post 1 shall be Norman Jenkins and the initial member to serve in Post 2 shall be Henry Estes. The term of office of the member first selected to serve in Post 3 of the board shall expire on December 31, 1994. The initial member to serve in Post 3 shall be Carl Rhodenizer. The term of office of the members first selected to serve in Posts 4 and 5 of the board shall expire on December 31, 1996. The governing authority of Clayton County shall make the initial appointments to Posts 4 and 5 as soon as practicable. The governing authority of Clayton County at its last regular meeting each year shall appoint successors to the members of the board as provided in this Act immediately preceding the expiration of their respective terms of office, and such members shall take office on the first day of January immediately following their appointment for terms of office of three years. Beginning with the first meeting of the board following the effective date of this Act, and after the selection of the remaining two members, the member serving in Post 1 shall serve as chairperson until an election among the board members can take place. The first order of business of this meeting shall be the election of a chairperson and vice-chairperson from the membership of the board to serve until December 31 of the current year. Those members elected as chairperson and vice-chairperson at the first meeting of each year thereafter shall hold office for the remaining year and their tenure in office shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they were elected. In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of a member of the board, a successor to the member shall be appointed by the governing authority of Clayton County until the selection in the appropriate manner, as the case may be, can take place. The newly elected member shall serve for the unexpired term of the departing member.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 4)
Sec. 4-5. - Removal from office.
No member of the board may be removed from office prior to the expiration of his term except for cause after having been granted a notice and afforded a hearing before the participating elected officials of the county. Prior to the hearing, the member shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to his or her residence as shown in the files of the governing authority of Clayton County at least ten days before the date set for the hearing with written specifications of the charges against him or her. A majority vote by such elected officials shall control his or her removal. The three members specifically named in this Act shall, after the expiration of the terms specified herein, be subject to all the provisions of this Act relating to selection, appointment, and qualification for membership on the board.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 5)
Sec. 4-6. - Compensation.
(a)
The members of the board shall receive such compensation for attending meetings of the board as provided by resolution of the governing authority of Clayton County. Such compensation shall be paid from the treasury of Clayton County.
(b)
Hearing officers shall receive such compensation for conducting hearings as provided by resolution of the governing authority of Clayton County. Such compensation shall be paid from the treasury of Clayton County.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 6; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 2, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-6.1. - Conflict of interest.
(a)
(1)
An actual conflict of interest shall arise when (A) an appellant worked under a board member's direct or indirect supervision, or (B) the Board member is related by blood or marriage to the appellant or member of the appellant's immediate family or household; and
(2)
An apparent conflict of interest shall arise when a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts would conclude from the circumstances that personal, financial or other considerations have the potential to compromise or bias professional judgment and objectivity between (A) an individual board member and the County or elected official (B) an individual board member and the appellant.
(b)
If a conflict arises pursuant to subsection (a) above, the board member with whom there is a conflict of interest shall not participate in reviewing the merits of the appeal pertaining to disciplinary actions.
(c)
When either the County or appellant cannot agree on whether there is a conflict arising pursuant to subsection (a) above, the issue of whether a conflict exists shall be transferred to a hearing officer. The burden of establishing a conflict of interest between a board member or members and a party to an appeal pertaining to a disciplinary action shall fall on the party raising the issue. The party raising the issue of a conflict of interest may present argument and evidence before the hearing officer in support of the issue and the party opposing the issue may present rebuttal argument and evidence. The hearing officer shall determine whether an actual or apparent conflict of interest exists. If a conflict of interest exists between a majority of the civil service board and either the appellant or the County, the hearing officer has jurisdiction to hear the case. If the hearing officer does not find that there is a conflict of interest under this section, then the matter shall be transferred back to the Civil Service Board for review of the merits of the appeal pertaining to the disciplinary action.
(Ord. No. 2020-91, § 3, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-7. - Duties of civil service board and hearing officers.
(a)
The duties and functions of the civil service board shall be as hereafter provided:
(1)
In accordance with civil service system rules and regulations, the board shall conduct hearings and render decisions solely on appeals by persons employed in the several departments and offices included in the civil service system who claim to have been improperly suspended, demoted, or dismissed.
(2)
In accordance with civil service system rules and regulations, the board shall conduct informal grievance hearings and render advisory opinions and recommendations on any matter properly brought before the board.
(3)
The board shall be authorized to make nonbinding recommendations relating to amendments, additions, and deletions to civil service system rules and regulations from time to time.
(4)
In the event that a conflict of interest exists between a majority of the civil service board and either the appellant or the County, the appellant or County may elect to proceed with an appeal by hearing officer pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. In the event either the County or the appellant elect to proceed before a hearing officer, that election shall be binding on all parties.
(b)
In accordance with civil service system rules and regulations, the hearing officer shall conduct hearings and render decisions solely on appeals by persons employed in the several departments and offices included in the civil service system who claim to have been improperly suspended, demoted, or dismissed.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 7; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 4, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-8. - Location of meetings; number of required meetings; minutes and records.
All meetings of the board and hearings conducted by the hearing officer shall be held in offices provided therefor by the governing authority of Clayton County and shall be open to the public as required by Georgia law. The board shall hold regular meetings once a month, provided there is business which needs to be conducted, and additional meetings as may be required for the proper discharge of its duties. The hearing officer shall conduct hearings as necessary for the proper discharge of his or her duties. All meetings and hearings shall commence at such time and on such date as the board or hearing officer may designate and continue thereafter until all business has been completed or the meeting or hearing is otherwise adjourned. The board or hearing officer shall keep and maintain an accurate record of minutes of all meetings or hearings as proscribed by Georgia law and shall be furnished clerical assistance by the governing authority of Clayton County to meet and maintain their minutes and records.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 8; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 5, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-9. - Cause; rights of appeal; enforcement.
No regular status employee of any department or office of the county which has been brought under the civil service system may be suspended, demoted, or dismissed from employment in the department or office except for good cause and in accordance with civil service system rules and regulations. Any employee who is suspended, demoted, or dismissed shall have the right of appeal pursuant to the terms of the civil service system rules and regulations; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to persons dismissed from any department or office due to curtailment of funds, reduction in staff, or abolition of the job held by such employee. Decisions of the board or hearing officer rendered in accordance with the rules and regulations of the civil service system and which are not contrary to public policy shall be enforced by the governing authority, departments thereof, and elected officials of Clayton County.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 9; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 6, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-10. - Conducting hearings; decision.
In addition to any other requirements imposed by common law, the state and federal constitutions, state and local law, and Clayton County rules and regulations, the hearing conducted on an appeal shall conform to applicable provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," as set forth in the civil service rules and regulations. A final decision on an appeal shall be made within 30 days of the hearing, a copy of which shall be mailed or delivered promptly to each party or the employee's attorney of record. A final decision shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, separately stated, and the effective date of the decision. Findings of fact shall be accompanied by a concise and explicit statement of the underlying facts supporting the findings.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 10)
Sec. 4-11. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the board or hearing officer is entitled to judicial review by certiorari to the Superior Court of Clayton County. (Ga. Laws 2010, p. § ) (House Bill 1503).
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 11; Ord. No. 2010-149, § 1, 8-3-10; Ord. No. 2020-91, § 7, 6-2-20)
Sec. 4-12. - Promulgation of rules and regulations; amendments.
The governing authority of Clayton County shall, by resolution, adopt rules and regulations to effectuate the civil service system. The rules and regulations shall include, but not be limited to, policies and procedures regarding the establishment and maintenance of job classifications; prescribed qualifications for personnel, compensation and benefit plans; the conduct of recruitment, examination, and registration of eligible personnel for appointment; the promotion, transfer, demotion, suspension, layoff and separation of personnel; and such other rules and regulations as may be deemed to be in the best interest of Clayton County and its personnel. The governing authority of Clayton County shall be authorized to amend such rules and regulations from time to time by appropriate ordinance or resolution and to specify by an ordinance or resolution any future department, personnel, or office of the county government to come under the jurisdiction of civil service system.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 12)
Sec. 4-13. - Not construed as a waiver.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed as a waiver of rights and responsibilities on the part of any constitutional officer or other elected official of Clayton County attendant to provisions of Georgia law and the Constitution of Georgia as the same may apply or relate to their respective offices.
(Ga. Laws 1994, p. 4399, § 13)
