Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Local government, O.C.G.A. tit. 36.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "Code of Ordinances, City of Senoia, Georgia," and may be so cited.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Senoia" followed.
Code. Whenever the term "Code" or "this Code" is referred to without further qualification, it shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Senoia, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the person having that privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise that privilege or to discharge the duty.
Council or city council. The words "council" or "city council" shall mean the council of the City of Senoia.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Coweta.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of this Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority of those persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
Limits or corporation. The words "limits" or "corporation" shall mean the corporate limits (legal boundary) of the city.
Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Municipality. Wherever the word "municipality" appears in this Code, it shall mean the City of Senoia, Georgia.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person or thing. A word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons and things.
Oath. The word "oath" includes an affirmation. When an oath is required or authorized by law, an affirmation in lieu thereof may be taken. An affirmation has the same force and effect as an oath.
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." shall mean the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. "Personal property" includes every species of property except real property, as defined in this section.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. "Property" includes real, personal and mixed estates and interests.
Public place. "Public place" shall mean any place including, but not limited to, buildings or conveyances to which the public has or is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane, park or place of public resort or amusement.
Real property. "Real property" shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall; may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. "Signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
Special event means an outdoor event that is required to work with more than one city department to ensure that public health, safety, and welfare of the community is maintained. Outdoor events may include, but are not limited to, a fair, show, market, parade, run/walk, festival, carnival, or similar entertainment event or celebration, which is to be held in whole or in part upon public property and affect ordinary or normal use of a public right-of-way(s), or if held wholly upon private property, will nevertheless affect or impact the ordinary or normal use of a public right-of-way(s).
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tenant or occupant. The words "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, that building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Title of officer, employee, department, board, commission, agency. Whenever the title of an officer, employee, department, board, commission or agency is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Senoia" were added.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Written, in writing. "Written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-2; Ord. No. 18-11 , § 1, 1-7-2019)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes generally, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code and other headings within such sections are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of those sections nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, that unconstitutionality or other invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since the same would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Except when a different specific penalty appears in this Code or other ordinance provision, the municipal court of the city shall be authorized to impose any fine or punishment, for a violation of this Code or other ordinance provision, up to the maximums specified by general law, including the maximums specified in O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6(a)(2)(B) and (a)(2)(C).
(b)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or Code.
(c)
Every day during which a violation continues is a separate offense.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. Chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the mayor and council to make such additions and amendments a part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the mayor and council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the mayor and council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions.
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles.
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers.
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code).
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-8. - History notes and reference matter.
The history notes appearing in parentheses at the ends of sections are for information only and are not a part of the Code. Citations to the 1980 Code ("Code 1980") and to later ordinances indicate only the source, and the text may or may not be changed by this Code. Cross references, state law references and other reference matter not in parentheses are for information only and are not a part of this Code.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner except by ordinance or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-5.
(Code 1980, § 1-1-7)
Cross reference— Offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 46.
Sec. 1-10. - Miscellaneous actions and ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution of the city promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or to the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city.
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance or resolution of the city to any person, firm or corporation.
(4)
Any ordinance or resolution dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city.
(5)
Any annual appropriation of the city.
(6)
Any ordinance or resolution levying or imposing charges, fees or taxes.
(7)
Any zoning ordinance of the city or amendments thereto.
All such actions, ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-11. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
