Chapter 22 - CABLE COMMUNICATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This chapter is derived from an ordinance adopted on March 28, 1980. The grantee accepted the franchise on that date.
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; streets, sidewalks and other public places, ch. 58; taxation, ch. 62; utilities, ch. 70; zoning, ch. 74.

Sec. 22-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as a cable television franchise.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-1)
Sec. 22-2. - Preamble.
This chapter was passed after a full, open and public hearing upon prior notice and opportunity of all interested parties to be heard and upon careful consideration of the grantee's qualifications, including its legal, character, financial and technical qualifications, and the adequacy and feasibility of its construction arrangements.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-2)
Sec. 22-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Senoia, a municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Georgia.
City council means the city council or its designated representative.
Federal Communications Commission or FCC means the present federal agency of that name as constituted by the Communications Act of 1934, or any successor agency created by the United States Congress.
Grantee means Peach State Cablevision, or its designee subsidiary, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state, and it is the grantee of rights under this franchise.
Gross subscriber revenues includes any and all compensation or receipts derived by the grantee from installation, disconnection and reinstallation charges and periodic service charges in connection with the carriage of broadcast signals and FCC-mandated nonbroadcast services within the city, but shall not include any refunds or credits made to subscribers or any taxes imposed upon the services furnished by the grantee. It shall not include revenue from ancillary or auxiliary services, which include, but are not limited to, advertising, leased channels, and programming supplied on a per-program or per-channel charge basis, if any.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
Regular subscriber services means the carriage of broadcast signals and FCC-mandated nonbroadcast services, but shall not include ancillary or auxiliary services, which include, but are not limited to, advertising, leased channels and programming supplied on a per-program or per-channel charge basis, if any.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-3)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-4. - Grant of authority.
There is hereby granted by the city to the grantee the right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over or under the streets, alleys, easements, public ways and public places now laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the city, all poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation in the city of a cable television system for the transmission of television signals and all other signals permitted by the FCC, either separately or upon or in conjunction with any public utility maintaining them in the city, with all the necessary and desirable appliances and appurtenances pertaining thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this franchise and grant shall and does hereby include the right in, over, under and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, easements and public grounds and places in the city to install, erect, operate or in any way acquire the use of, as by leasing or licensing, all lines and equipment necessary to a cable television system and the right to make connections to subscribers and the right to repair, replace, enlarge and extend such lines, equipment and connections. The rights granted in this chapter for the purposes set forth in this chapter shall not be exclusive, and the city reserves the right to grant a similar use of the streets, alleys, easements, public ways and places to any person at any time during the period of the franchise; provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to require the granting of an additional CATV franchise if, in the opinion of the city council, it is in the public interest to restrict such franchises to one or more.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-4)
Sec. 22-5. - Exercise of police power; rights of city retained.
The grantee shall at all times during the term of the franchise be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power of the city. The right is hereby reserved to the city to adopt, in addition to the provisions contained in this chapter and any other existing applicable ordinances, such additional applicable ordinances as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its police power; provided, however, that such additional ordinances shall be reasonable, shall not conflict with or alter in any manner the rights granted in this chapter, and shall not conflict with the laws of the state, the laws of the United States of America, or the rules, regulations and policies of the FCC.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-5)
Sec. 22-6. - Indemnification.
The grantee shall save the city harmless from all loss sustained by the city on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever against the city resulting from negligence on the part of the grantee in the construction, operation or maintenance of its cable television system in the city; and for this purpose the grantee shall carry property damage and personal injury insurance with some responsible insurance company qualified to do business in the state. The amounts of such insurance to be carried for liability due to property damage shall be $100,000.00 as to any one occurrence; and against liability due to injury to or death of person, $100,000.00 as to any one person and $300,000.00 as to any one occurrence. The city shall notify the grantee, in writing, within ten days after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the city on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part of the grantee. Where any such claim or demand against the city is made by suit or other legal action, written notice thereof shall be given by the city to the grantee not less than five days prior to the date upon which an answer to such legal action is due or within ten days after the claim or demand is made upon the city, whichever notice period yields the grantee the larger amount of time within which to prepare an answer. Failure by the city to notify the grantee properly in accordance with the foregoing of any such claim, suit or demand against the city shall release the grantee from its obligation to indemnify the city as provided in this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-6)
Sec. 22-7. - Construction and maintenance of system.
(a)
All structures, lines and equipment erected by the grantee within the city shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, easements and other public ways and places to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners, and the grantee shall comply with all reasonable, proper and lawful ordinances of the city now or hereafter in force. Existing poles, posts, conduits and other such structures of an electric power system, telephone company or other public utility located in the city shall be made available to the grantee for leasing or licensing upon reasonable terms and shall be used to the extent practicable in order to minimize interference with travel and avoid unnecessary duplication of facilities. The city shall actively assist the grantee to the fullest extent necessary in obtaining reasonable joint pole or conduit use agreements from the owners of existing poles or conduits. To the extent that existing poles, posts, conduits and other such structures are not available, or are not available under reasonable terms and conditions, including excessive cost or unreasonable limitation upon the use of the grantee's cable television system, the grantee shall have the right to purchase, lease or in any other way acquire land or rights-of-way upon or under which to erect and maintain its own poles, conduits and other such structures as may be necessary for the construction and maintenance of its cable television system.
(b)
In case of any disturbance by the grantee of pavement, sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the city, replace and restore all paving, sidewalk, driveway or surface so disturbed in as good condition as before the work was commenced.
(c)
If at any time during the period of the franchise the city shall lawfully elect to alter or change any street, alley, easement or other public way requiring the relocation of the grantee's facilities, the grantee, upon reasonable notice by the city, shall remove, relay and relocate the same at its own expense; provided, however, that where public funds are available for such relocation pursuant to law, the grantee shall not be required to pay the cost.
(d)
The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the city, temporarily raise or lower its lines to permit the moving of the building. The expense of such temporary removal shall be paid by the person requesting it, and the grantee shall have the authority to require the payment in advance.
(e)
The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging all streets, alleys, easements, sidewalks and public places of the city so as to prevent the branches of the trees from coming into contact with the grantee's facilities.
(f)
All poles, lines, structures and other facilities of the grantee in, on, over and under the streets, sidewalks, alleys, easements and public grounds or places of the city shall be kept by the grantee at all times in a safe and substantial condition.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-7)
Sec. 22-8. - FCC rules applicable.
The franchise is governed by and subject to all applicable rules, regulations and policies of the Federal Communications Commission, specifically including Part 76, and by the laws of the state. Should there be any modifications of the provisions of Part 76 of the Rules and Regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, specifically including section 76.31, that must be incorporated in this franchise, the city and the grantee agree that such incorporation shall be accomplished within one year after the effective date of the FCC's adoption of the modification or upon renewal of the franchise, whichever comes first.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-8)
Sec. 22-9. - Franchise term.
The franchise shall take effect and be in full force from and after acceptance by the grantee as provided in section 22-19, and shall continue in full force and effect for a term of 15 years; provided, however, that should FCC certification be necessary in connection with implementation or continuation of the cable television service contemplated by the franchise, the term shall begin upon the effective date of the grant by the FCC of the necessary certification.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-9)
Sec. 22-10. - Renewal procedure.
The grantee shall have the unlimited option to renew the franchise for an additional period not to exceed five years. Should the grantee desire to exercise this option, it shall so notify the city, in writing, not less than three months prior to expiration of the franchise.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-10)
Sec. 22-11. - Forfeiture.
If the grantee should violate any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of the franchise or if the grantee should fail to comply with any reasonable provisions of any ordinance of the city regulating the use by the grantee of the streets, alleys, easements or public ways of the city, and should the grantee further continue to violate or fail to comply with the same for a period of 30 days after the grantee has been notified in writing by the city to cease and desist from any such violation or failure to comply so specified, the grantee may be deemed to have forfeited and annulled and shall thereby forfeit and annul all the rights and privileges granted by the franchise; provided, however, that such forfeiture shall be declared only by written decision of the city council after an appropriate public proceeding before the city council affording the grantee due process and full opportunity to be heard and to respond to any such notice of violation or failure to comply. The city council may, in its discretion and upon a finding of violation or failure to comply, impose a lesser penalty than forfeiture of the franchise or excuse the violation or failure to comply upon a showing by the grantee of mitigating circumstances. The grantee shall have the right to appeal any findings of violation or failure to comply and any resultant penalty to any court of competent jurisdiction. If forfeiture is imposed upon the grantee, it shall be afforded a period of six months within which to sell, transfer or convey the cable television system to a qualified purchaser at fair market value. During this six-month period, which shall run from the effective date of the final order or decision imposing forfeiture, including any appeal, the grantee shall have the right to operate the cable television system pursuant to the provisions of the franchise.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-11)
Sec. 22-12. - Surrender of rights.
The grantee may surrender the franchise at any time upon filing with the city clerk a written notice of its intention to do so at least three months before the surrender date. On the surrender date specified in the notice, all of the rights and privileges and all of the obligations, duties and liabilities of the grantee in connection with the franchise shall terminate.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-12)
Sec. 22-13. - Transfers.
All of the rights and privileges and all of the obligations, duties and liabilities created by the franchise shall pass to and be binding upon the successors of the city and the successors and assigns of the grantee, and shall not be assigned or transferred without the written approval of the city council, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. However, this section shall not prevent the assignment or hypothecation of the franchise by the grantee as security for debt without such approval. Transfers or assignments of the franchise between any parent and subsidiary corporation or between entities of which at least 50 percent of the beneficial ownership is held by the same person or entity shall be permitted without the prior approval of the city council.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-13)
Sec. 22-14. - Franchise fee.
The grantee shall pay the city an annual fee of four percent of its gross revenues derived from the supplying of regular, basic cable subscriber service; provided, however, that the annual fee shall in no event exceed three percent of the grantee's gross revenues per year from all cable services in the community. If subsequent to the granting of the franchise the FCC authorizes and/or approves an increase in the annual fee over and above the three-percent rate the grantee shall pay the city the increased fee, upon notification of the grantee by the city, provided the annual fee shall not be in excess of four percent. Such annual sum shall be payable one-half thereof at the end of each semiannual period. The semiannual anniversary shall be June 30 and December 31 of each year, and each semiannual payment shall be paid within 60 days thereafter. All other license fees or taxes levied upon the grantee by the city shall be credited against the payment required in this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-14)
Sec. 22-15. - Customer service; complaint procedure.
The grantee shall maintain a business office or a toll-free telephone listing in the city for the purpose of receiving inquiries and complaints from its customers and the general public. The grantee shall investigate all complaints within five days of their receipt and shall in good faith attempt to resolve them swiftly and equitably. The mayor shall be responsible for receiving and acting upon any unresolved complaints. Notice of this complaint procedure, including the identity of the city official responsible for receiving unresolved complaints, shall be given to each subscriber at the time of initial subscription to the cable system.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-15)
Sec. 22-16. - Construction schedule.
Should any construction be necessary for the grantee to provide the cable television service authorized by the franchise, a significant portion of such construction (at least 50 percent) shall be accomplished within one year after the effective date of this chapter, or, if FCC certification is required prior to implementation of the cable television service authorized by the franchise, within one year after the effective date of the grant by the FCC of the necessary certification. Thereafter, the grantee shall equitably and reasonably proceed to complete the necessary construction at a rate of not less than 25 percent per year of the total construction authorized by the franchise.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-16)
Sec. 22-17. - Rate schedules.
(a)
The initial rates for installation of equipment and regular subscriber services shall be nondiscriminatory and shall be as set forth below; provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit reasonable promotional rates which may, from time to time, be less than the rates set forth as follows:
EXPAND
(1) Residential subscribers:
a. Basic service ..... $ 8.50
b. Family package .....   7.00 (optional) 2 channels
c. Sports package .....   4.00 (optional) 2 channels
d. Variety package .....   2.00 (optional) 4 channels
e. Premium channel .....   8.00 (optional) 1 channel
Extra sets:
a. Basic ..... $ 2.00
b. Family package .....   4.00
c. Sports package .....   1.50
d. Variety package .....   1.50
e. Premium channel .....   6.00
(2) Installation fees:
a. Basic service ..... $15.00
b. Family, variety or sports package .....  10.00
c. Premium channel .....  10.00
d. Extra sets, each .....   7.00
e. Convertor deposit, (refundable interest-bearing deposit) .....  25.00
  (b)
No increase in the rates charged for the installation of equipment and regular subscriber services as specified above shall be made effective without notification to the city council 90 days prior to effective date of the increase so that the city council may have, if it deems it necessary, a full, open and public proceeding and grant an opportunity to all interested parties to be heard; provided, however, that if the city council does not call for a public hearing within the 90-day notice period, the proposed increase shall be effective at the end of the 90-day notice period. Approval or disapproval by the city council of any rate increase proposed by the grantee may be expressed by simple resolution, and this chapter need not be amended for that purpose. A proposed rate increase shall not be unreasonably denied, and any denial of a rate increase, in whole or in part, shall be accomplished by a written statement by the city council which shall set forth the reasons for denial. If the city council denies a proposed rate increase, in whole or in part, the grantee shall have the right to request arbitration, in accordance with rules of the American Arbitration Association, to determine the reasonableness of the city council's action, or, at its option, the grantee shall have the right to request review of the denial by any court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
Recognizing that Public Law 94-553 has established copyright liability for cable television systems which may be increased after the grant of the franchise by action of the United States Copyright Royalty Tribunal, and further recognizing the uncertainty and jeopardy into which such potential additional copyright liability places the grantee, should such additional copyright liability be imposed upon the grantee by the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, the grantee shall have the right to increase its rates for regular subscriber services in order to offset such additional copyright liability. Any increase in the grantee's rate schedule pursuant to this subsection shall be limited to the amount of the additional copyright liability imposed. Such increase shall not be subject to the procedures specified in subsection (b) of this section and shall become effective ten days after notice of the increase is given to the city council together with a certification that the increase is due solely to the imposition of additional copyright liability and that the increase is limited to an amount necessary to cover the amount of the additional liability.
(d)
Prior approval of the city council need not be obtained for any increase in rates charged for installation of equipment and regular subscriber services resulting from the imposition of or an increase in taxes and license charges imposed upon cable television facilities, services, operations or income; provided, however, that any such increase in rates shall be limited to an amount necessary to offset the aforesaid imposition of or increase in taxes or license charges. Any such increase shall become effective ten days after notice of the increase is given to the city council together with a certification that the increase is due solely to the imposition of or increase in taxes or license charges.
(e)
Prior approval of the city council need not be obtained for any increase in rates charged for installation of equipment and regular subscriber services that does not exceed five percent in any one 12-month period; provided, however, that any increase in rates pursuant to this provision shall not be in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index applicable to the same 12-month period. Any such increase shall become effective ten days after notice of the increase is given to the city council together with a certification that the increase is limited to five percent or less of the grantee's existing rate schedule for installation of equipment and regular subscriber services, or that the increase is limited to the increase in the consumer price index for the applicable 12-month period, whichever is the lesser.
(f)
Rates for services other than installation of equipment and regular subscriber services shall be established and published by the grantee pursuant to the rules of the Federal Communications Commission.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-17)
Editor's note— The mayor and council adopted the following resolution on September 7, 1993:
"1.
The City will follow the FCC Rate Regulations in its regulation of the Basic Service Rates and Charges of the Company and any other cable television system operating in the City, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the Franchise; and
2.
In connection with such regulation, the City will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties; and
3.
The Mayor, or his or her designee, is authorized to execute on behalf of the City and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC Rate Regulations in order to enable the City to regulate Basic Service Rates and Charges; and
4.
The Resolution shall be effective immediately."
Sec. 22-18. - Receiver sales, repair prohibited.
As a condition of the franchise, the grantee agrees that it shall not engage in the business of sales or repair of television receivers owned by its subscribers; nor shall it be responsible for the operating condition of the receivers; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to convertors, decoders, home interactive terminals and other such devices as may be used in furnishing any programming or service via the grantee's cable television system.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-18)
Sec. 22-19. - Acceptance.
This chapter shall become effective when accepted by the grantee and shall then be and become a valid and binding contract between the city and the grantee; provided, however, that this chapter shall be void unless the grantee shall, within 90 days after the final passage of this chapter, file with the city clerk a written acceptance of this chapter and the franchise herein granted, agreeing that it will comply with all of the provisions and conditions of this chapter and that it will refrain from doing all of the things prohibited by this chapter.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-19)
Sec. 22-20. - Regulation of basic service rates and charges by city.
(a)
The city will follow the FCC rate regulations in its regulation of the basic service rates and charges of the grantee and any other cable television system operating in the city, notwithstanding any different or inconsistent provisions in the franchise.
(b)
In connection with such regulation, the city will ensure a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(c)
The mayor or his designee is authorized to execute on behalf of the city and file with the FCC such certification forms or other instruments as are now or may hereafter be required by the FCC rate regulations in order to enable the city to regulate basic service rates and charges.
(Res. of 9-7-93, § 3)
Sec. 22-21. - Unlawful acts.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to make an unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of the grantee's cable television system for the purpose of enabling himself or others to receive any television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or intelligence transmitted over the grantee's cable system without payment to the grantee or its lessee.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner, to willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cable, wires or other equipment used for the distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or intelligence transmitted over the grantee's cable system.
(c)
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section 1-5, for any person to violate any of the provisions of this section.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-20)
Sec. 22-22. - Severability.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any federal or state court or administrative or governmental agency of competent jurisdiction, specifically including the Federal Communications Commission, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-21)
Sec. 22-23. - Effective date.
This chapter shall become effective upon acceptance by the grantee as provided in section 22-19. The effective date shall be the date upon which the written acceptance provided for in section 22-19 is received by the city clerk.
(Code 1980, § 7-3-22)
Sec. 22-24. - Franchise fee for state issued cable or video franchise.
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the State of Georgia.
(Ord. No. 07-07, § 1, 1-7-2008)
Sec. 22-25. - Authorized designee.
The city hereby authorizes its city administrator, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the Secretary of State and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 07-07, § 1, 1-7-2008)
