ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 40-31. - Platting authority.
The city council along with the planning commission and city engineer shall be the official platting authorities of the city, and not plat of a subdivision shall be recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Coweta County unless it shall have the approval of the city as delineated in section 40-74 inscribed thereon. The filing or recording of a plat of subdivision without prior approvals as required by this chapter is hereby a misdemeanor.
The provisions of this chapter may change from time to time. Only those portions of the chapter in effect at the time a given plat/site plan is accepted by the city shall apply to development of the lots or site as depicted on the plat/site plan.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 301)
Sec. 40-32. - Use of plat.
The transfer of title or sale of land by reference to a plat of a subdivision that has not been given final approval and recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Coweta County is prohibited.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 302)
Sec. 40-33. - Erection of building.
No building permit shall be issued and no building shall be erected on any subdivided lot in the city unless the final plat or final site plan has been approved in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 303)
Sec. 40-34. - Review and inspection.
In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Senoia, and in order to offset some of the cost for review and inspection of public improvements required, a fee shall be collected for the development of all land within the city, as set forth by a scheduled adopted by the mayor and city council.
(1)
In phased developments, the fee shall be paid for each respective phase prior to the insurance of any development permit.
(2)
Development fees shall not be collected for additions to existing building or subdivisions so long as no additional acreage is involved. If additional acreage is involved, development fees shall be paid for that additional acreage in the amounts set by the mayor and city council.
(3)
No development fee shall be charged for any recreation land included in any development, which is to be dedicated to Senoia for public use.
This fee shall be collected for each review performed with the exception of reviews requested by city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 304)
Secs. 40-35—30-50. - Reserved.
