ARTICLE I. - PROVISIONS

Sec. 50-1. - Authority.
The city council, at the December 2, 2013 meeting does hereby approve the following personnel policies for the city adopted December 2, 2013.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-2. - Purposes.
These policies are adopted to provide for the recruitment and development of the best available employee for each position in the city and to establish orderly procedures for administering the personnel system so as to be consistent with the following merit principles:
(1)
Recruiting, selecting and advancing employees on the basis of their relative ability, knowledge and skill, including open competition of qualified applicants for initial appointment;
(2)
Establishing pay rates consistent with the principles of providing comparable pay for comparable work;
(3)
Training employees, as needed, to assure high-quality performance;
(4)
Retaining employees on the basis of the adequacy of their performance, correcting inadequate performance without regard to political affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion or handicapped status;
(5)
Assuring fair treatment of applications and employees in all aspects of personnel administration without regard to political affiliation, race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion or handicapped status;
(6)
Establishing a procedure for the presentation and adjustment of employee grievances based on alleged inequitable treatment because of some conditions of their employment; or based on alleged discrimination because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion or handicapped status;
(7)
Assuring employees' protection against partisan political coercion and prohibiting their use of official authority for interfering with or affecting the results of an election or the nomination for an office.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-3. - Positions.
These policies shall apply to all positions in the classified service including regular part-time employees as well as any temporary or part-time positions as may be specifically covered by action of the city council. A "classified position" is any full time year-round or regular part-time position that exists or which created in any agency of the city government, if wages or salary of the incumbent or future employee is paid wholly by the city government, and/or if the employee is under control of the city as prescribed by the city Charter.
A regular full-time employee will be scheduled to work a minimum of 40 hours a week. A regular part-time employee will be scheduled to work a minimum of 20 hours a week.
Those employees holding positions on an elective or appointive board, in an elected position or of a temporary full-time, temporary part-time or voluntary nature are not to be included in the classified service.
Classified positions shall be divided into two categories:
(1)
Salaried.
(2)
Hourly.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-4. - Administration.
The city manager shall administer these policies and in conformity with the personnel resolution adopted by the mayor and council. Throughout these policies, powers, and duties, inferred or expressed as pertaining to the city manager may be delegated to designees with the approval of mayor and city council. The city manager may formulate and prescribe such rules and regulations as they may deem necessary for the operation of the departments. Such rules and regulations, when approved by mayor and city council shall be binding on the members of the departments.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-5. - Amendment.
These policies may be amended at any regular or special meeting of mayor and city council by adoption of an appropriate amendment by resolution. The copies of the proposed changes shall be posted in the prominent places in the city offices prior to the time they are to be considered by the governing authority.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-6. - Interpretation.
These policies are intended to cover most personnel problems and action which may arise. Those not specifically covered shall be interpreted by the mayor and city council in keeping with the intent of the personnel resolution and these policies.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-7. - Veteran's preference.
Procedures concerning honorably discharged veterans of any war will conform to Article III, Section VII, Paragraph XXIV, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Sec. 50-8. - Enforcement and administration.
The responsibility and authority of the enforcement and administration of the policies set forth herein are vested in the mayor and city council.
( Ord. of 12-2-2013 )
Secs. 50-9—50-20. - Reserved.
