ARTICLE XIII. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 40-271. - Enforcement.
The city engineer and other city staff shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1301)
Sec. 40-272. - Inspection and right of entry.
Upon presentation of identification to the developer, contractor, owner, owner's agent, operator or occupants, employees of the city may enter during all reasonable hours any property under proposed or existing development and construction. These employees may take inspections of the facilities for the purpose of determining plan requirements or compliance with ordinance provisions. These designees may inspect any drainage system within or outside of an existing drainage easement. All drainage facilities located on private property, whether dedicated to the city or not, shall be accessible at all times for city inspection. Where drainage facilities are accepted by the city for maintenance, public access easements shall be provided. Reasonable access shall be provided to all drainage easements for inspection and maintenance functions. Where an easement does not exist for the drainage system, the permission of the owner shall be obtained before entrance; however, in the event of emergency maintenance requirements, permission of the owner shall not be mandatory.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1302)
Sec. 40-273. - Emergency maintenance.
The city may conduct emergency maintenance operations on private land and on drainage systems where emergency conditions exist. Emergency maintenance shall constitute the removal of trees and other debris, which in the judgment of the city engineer create a condition potentially injurious to life, property, or the public road system.
Emergency maintenance conducted on nay drainage system shall not be constructed as constituting a continuing maintenance obligation on the part of the city.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1303)
Sec. 40-274. - Notice of violation.
Whenever the city engineer/staff determines that activity on a property does not comply with the approved development and construction plan, he may issue a notice of violation. Wherever he determines that the drainage system has been unlawfully altered, causing inadequate drainage, he may issue a notice of violation. The notice of violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, shall be to the owner of the property or his agent and shall:
(1)
Be in writing;
(2)
Include a description of the property sufficient for identification of where the violation has occurred;
(3)
List the specific provisions of this chapter which have been violated; and
(4)
State that if these repairs, construction or alterations are not completed within a reasonable time period specified by the inspector shall be issued for the owner to appear in recorder's court. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a new and separate violation.
However, in the judgment of the city engineer, where the violation is willful, in wanton disregard of the provisions of this chapter or constitutes a public health and safety hazard, he may obtain a court summons in lieu of a notice of violation.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1304)
Sec. 40-275. - Penalties.
Any person violating this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-5 Code of ordinances City of Senoia for each offense. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. of 7-1-2002, § 1305)
Secs. 40-276—40-285. - Reserved.
