ARTICLE VIII. - WATERSHED PROTECTION DISTRICT

Sec. 74-155. - Definition.
The watershed protection district shall overlay other zoning districts so that all land lying with the watershed protection districts shall also be included in the underlying district(s). Each parcel of land within the watershed protection district shall be subject to the provision, regulations and restrictions of the watershed protection district and its underlying district(s). In the event of a conflict or discrepancy between the requirements of the watershed protection overlay and the underlying district(s), the more stringent shall apply.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 8.1, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-156. - Findings of fact.
In order to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate within the City of Senoia it is essential that the quality of public drinking water be assured. The ability of natural systems to filter storm-water runoff can be threatened by unrestricted urban and suburban development. Land disturbing activities associated with development can increase erosion and sedimentation that threatens the storage capacity of reservoirs. In addition, storm-water runoff, particularly from impervious surfaces, can introduce toxicants, nutrients, and sediment into drinking water supplied, making water treatment more complicated, expensive and rendering water resources unusable. Industrial land uses that involve the manufacture, use, transport and storage of hazardous or toxic water materials result in the potential risk of contamination of nearby public drinking water supplies.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 1.2, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-157. - Purpose.
The purpose of the water supply watershed protection district regulation is to establish measures to protect the quality and quantity of the present and future water supply for the City of Senoia. Also, to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediments to the water supply, and maintain the yield of the water supply watersheds.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 1.3, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-158. - District delineation.
The protected water supply watershed districts are hereby designated, and shall consist of the land areas that drain to the public water supply intake or water supply reservoir. The ridgelines of the respective watersheds and the boundary of a radius seven miles upstream of the respective public water supply intakes define the boundaries of these districts. These districts shall be further delineated and defined on the Water Supply Watershed Protection District Overlay Map of the City of Senoia Official Zoning Map, which is hereby incorporated and made a part of this article by reference.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 8.4, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-159. - Permitted uses.
All uses allowed in the underlying zoning districts as established by this article except for those listed in prohibited uses below are permitted in the water supply watershed protection district, subject to the following conditions and standards:
(1)
Natural buffer requirements.
a.
Within a seven mile radius upstream of the public water intakes, a natural buffer, 100 feet wide shall be maintained on both sides of the stream, measured from the stream banks. Similarly, outside the seven mile radius, a natural buffer of 50 feet shall be maintained on both sides of the stream.
b.
A natural buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 150 feet from the boundary of any existing or future water supply reservoir.
(2)
Impervious surface limitations.
a.
No more than 25 percent of the land area of any parcel or lot on which new development is placed may be covered by impervious surface within a designated water supply watershed protection district.
b.
Within a seven mile radius upstream of all public water intakes, no impervious surface shall be constructed within a 150 foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream bank.
c.
Outside a seven mile radius upstream of all public water intakes, no impervious surface shall be constructed within a 75 foot setback area on both sides of the stream, as measured from the stream bank.
d.
Septic tanks and the drain fields of septic tanks are prohibited in the setback areas of b. and c. above. Amended June 5, 2000
(3)
Exemption.
The following uses are exempt from the stream corridor buffer and setback requirements if they meet the stipulated conditions:
a.
Utilities.
1.
Utilities shall be located as far as reasonably possible from the stream bank and shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
2.
Utilities shall be installed and maintained without changing the integrity of the buffer and setback areas as much as possible.
b.
Forestry and agricultural activities.
1.
Agriculture activities involving the planting and harvesting of crops are exempted if they conform to the best management practices established by the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
2.
Silviculture activities must conform to the best management practices established by the Georgia Forestry Commission.
Sec. 74-160. - Site plan requirements.
Except for the exemptions listed below all forms of development within the watershed protection district shall be required to have a site plan submitted and approved according to this article before any rezoning requests or building permits may be approved or any land disturbing activity may take place. Each site plan submitted shall include the following:
(1)
A site plan drawn to a scale and showing all planned improvements including width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, road water courses, drainage ways, water wastewater, and storm-water facilities and utility installations.
(2)
Location, dimensions, and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or body of water.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five feet.
(5)
Erosion and sedimentation control plan.
(6)
Any facility in the process of expanding shall provide location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing accidentally released hazardous of toxic waste.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. § 8.6, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-161. - Exemptions from site plan requirement.
(a)
Repairs to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(b)
Construction of minor structures such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 8.7, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-162. - Prohibited uses.
(a)
All sanitary landfills with or without synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(b)
Any facility using hazardous materials.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 8.8, 12-3-2007)
Sec. 74-163. - Activity compliance.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of storm-water runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of vegetation during construction, or otherwise result in an alteration of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the City of Senoia Building Official. Minor changes such as realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(Ord. No. 07-05, Art. 8, § 8.9, 12-3-2007)
Secs. 74-164—74-177. - Reserved.
