Chapter 54 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, adopted Mar. 16, 2009, repealed the former Ch. 54, §§ 54-1—54-10, and enacted a new Ch. 54 as set out herein. The former Ch. 54 pertained to solid waste and derived from Code 1980, §§ 4-2-3—4-2-7; Ord. of 11-4-96(1)).
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; businesses, ch. 18; environment, ch. 30; fire prevention and protection, ch. 34; burning trash, garbage, etc., § 34-1; health and sanitation, ch. 38; utilities, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Local solid waste management regulations, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.9; local comprehensive solid waste management plan, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; cost reimbursement fees and surcharges, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39; reduction of amount of solid waste generated in city, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-39.1; local restrictions on disposal of tires, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; local and regional solid waste management authorities, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-50 et seq.

Sec. 54-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes means and includes the waste products from coal, wood and other fuels used for cooking and heating from all public and private residences and establishments.
Building rubbish means waste material resulting from construction, remodeling, repairs and demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including driveways and walks, and it comprises waste and rejected matter such as excavated earth, stones, bricks, plaster, wallpaper, sheetrock and lathes, lumber, shingles, tile, concrete and waste parts occasioned by the installation or replacement of plumbing, heating systems, electrical work and roofing.
Commercial solid waste means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.
Composting means the controlled biological decomposition of organic matter into a stable, odor-free humus.
Garbage means the waste accumulation of animal or vegetable matter used for or intended for food or that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Industrial waste means solid waste materials from factories, processing plants, wholesale establishments, assembling plants or shops and garages, such as paper, cardboard, cartons, food processing wastes, cinders and ashes, lumber scraps, sawdust, excelsior, shavings, floor sweepings, metal scrap and shavings, glass and other waste products.
Leachate collection system means a system at a landfill for collection of the leachate which may percolate through the waste and into the soils surrounding the landfill.
Municipal solid waste means any solid waste derived from households, including garbage, trash and sanitary waste in septic tanks and includes solid waste from single-family and multifamily residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas. The term includes yard trimmings and commercial solid waste but does not include solid waste from mining, agricultural or silvicultural operations or industrial processes or operations.
Municipal solid waste disposal facility means any facility or location where the final disposition of any amount of municipal solid waste occurs, whether or not mixed with or including commercial or industrial solid waste, including but not limited to municipal solid waste landfills.
Municipal solid waste landfill means a disposal facility where any amount of municipal solid waste, whether or not mixed with or including commercial waste, industrial waste, nonhazardous sludges or small quantity generator hazardous waste, is disposed of by means of placing an approved cover thereon.
Rubbish means a variety of combustible and noncombustible waste not subject to rapid decomposition derived from places of residence, commercial areas and institutions and shall include paper, rags, plastics, cartons, boxes, cans, bottles, glass, crockery, excelsior, rubber, discarded clothing and similar materials.
Scavenging means uncontrolled picking from discarded solid waste materials.
Solid waste means putrescible and nonputrescible waste, except human body waste, and includes garbage, rubbish, paper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metals, tin cans, glass, crockery, ashes, street refuse, dead animals, waste materials generated in industrial operations, residue incineration, food processing wastes, demolition wastes, construction wastes and any other wastes in a solid or semisolid state not otherwise defined in this section.
Standard container means and includes a durable, rust-resistant, nonabsorbent, rodent-proof, watertight plastic or metal container with handles or bails, having a tight-fitting cover, and having no more than a 30-gallon capacity.
Waste means unwanted or discarded material, except human body waste.
Yard rubbish means tree branches, stumps, twigs, bushes, weeds, and general yard and garden waste materials and includes stone and dirt rakings and yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance, other than mining, agricultural and silvicultural operations.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-2. - Receipt of service required.
In order to protect the public health and sanitation, to prevent the spread of contagious or infectious diseases, and to prevent the breeding of rodents, insects and other vermin, all improved residential properties (single-family and multifamily residences) within the city shall receive regular solid waste collection services from the city. All residential customers will be provided once-per-week collection of their solid waste debris. No owner of a residential property shall be exempt or relieved from payment of the monthly sanitation collection and handling fee by reason of failure or refusal to receive services as provided. Such fee shall be imposed against the property itself and payment of the fee shall be enforceable and collected as provided by law for levy and sale of in rem liens.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-3. - Waste acceptable for collection.
Yard rubbish constitutes waste acceptable for collection by the city or its designated contractor. Garbage constitutes waste acceptable for collection by a private contractor for the city. Furniture and appliances may be picked up with prior notice for a set fee.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-4. - Waste unacceptable for collection.
(a)
The following items constitute waste unacceptable for collection by the city:
(1)
Dangerous materials or substances such as poisons, acids, caustics and explosives;
(2)
Building rubbish;
(3)
Ashes;
(4)
Yard rubbish except as provided herein;
(5)
Automobile and motor vehicle tires;
(6)
All other solid waste not specifically authorized in this chapter.
(b)
Any person responsible for waste not acceptable for collection by the city or its designated contractor shall make any arrangements as may be necessary for the collection and disposal of the unacceptable waste.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-5. - Preparation, storage of acceptable waste.
(a)
All residential solid waste stored outside the residence pending collection shall be placed inside approved containers with lids tightly affixed. Approved containers shall be those issued by the city or its designated contractor to residential customers pursuant to this article, designed to be rolled to curbside for periodic collection. All waste must be bagged and placed inside the container. Each container shall bear a serial number and shall be registered to the assigned customer. All containers shall remain the property of the city or its designated contractor. Additionally, in the event a container is lost, stolen or intentionally damaged, the city or its designated carrier reserves the right to charge the customer the replacement cost of the container.
(b)
The owner or occupant of each residence or business or commercial establishment shall store acceptable waste in standard containers which shall be provided by the city or its designated contractor and which shall at all times be maintained in a good state of repair. Each owner or occupant shall prevent the continued, excessive and unsightly accumulation of waste upon the property occupied by him.
(c)
Any acceptable waste that cannot be placed in standard containers shall be secured and placed alongside the container.
(d)
Except when taken to the curbside for scheduled collection, containers shall be consistently located in a rear or side yard.
(e)
Containers shall be used exclusively for the storage and transport of solid waste to the curbside.
(f)
If it is necessary, extra containers may be obtained for an additional monthly fee, as determined by the current fee schedule in affect at the time such additional cart is provided.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-6. - Placement for collection; yard trimmings and yard rubbish.
(a)
Customers shall place their container at curbside in front of the customer's residence not earlier than 12:00 noon on the day prior to the scheduled service.
(b)
All containers shall be removed from the curbside and returned to a rear or side yard of the residence no later than 12:00 noon on the day following the scheduled service.
(c)
Yard trimmings shall be placed on the street curb on pickup day. These items shall be secured in biodegradable bags of a type, size and material designed for solid waste storage and disposal. Disposable bags shall be unbroken and securely sealed and loaded in such a manner that normal handling will not cause the bag to open. No bag that cannot be loaded by one person shall be collected.
(d)
Fallen limbs, trees, cut limbs, cut trees and trash of this category shall be cut by the property owner into lengths of not more than four feet that will be of a size that may be handled by one person or of a size to be consumed by a chipper machine. Other trash which shall include yard wastes, weeds, grass, trimmings, leaves, brush and pine straw must be neatly piled at the curb or placed in bio-degradable bags. All trash and cuttings shall be placed as near as possible to the street or sidewalk right-of-way adjacent to the property owner's property but not so as to get into the street or block the sidewalk. At no time shall trash be placed in gutters, drains, walkways or alleys or streets of the city.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-7. - Unauthorized accumulations.
Any unauthorized accumulation of solid waste on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of solid waste within a reasonable time as may be fixed by written notice from the city shall be deemed a violation of this Code.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-8. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof shall interfere with any container placed for the purpose of storing solid waste pending collection, or remove or take any of the contents thereof, or remove any container from the location where the container has been placed by the owner thereof.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-9. - Placement and disposal of yard trimmings; prohibitions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful to place or mix yard trimmings with municipal solid waste within the city.
(b)
Yard trimmings shall not be disposed of at any municipal solid waste facility having a liner and leachate collection system or requiring vertical expansion located within the city.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
Sec. 54-10. - Sorting, storing, composting and collecting yard trimmings.
Yard trimmings should be sorted and stored as provided herein for collecting and transporting to a site designated by the city to be chipped.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 3-16-2009)
