Chapter 28 - SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENTATION AND POLLUTION CONTROL[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority for ordinances governing local land-disturbing activities, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-4.

ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 28-1. - Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 2018, § 15.104)
Sec. 28-2. - Exemptions.
This chapter shall apply to any land-disturbing activity undertaken by any person on any land except for the following:
(1)
Surface mining, as the same is defined in O.C.G.A. § 12-4-72 within O.C.G.A. §§ 12-4-70 through 12-4-84, the Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968;
(2)
Granite quarrying and land-clearing for such quarrying;
(3)
Such minor land-disturbing activities as home gardens and individual home landscaping, repairs, maintenance work, fences, and other related activities which result in minor soil erosion;
(4)
The construction of single-family residences, when such construction disturbs less than one acre and is not a part of a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre and not otherwise exempted under this subsection; provided, however, that construction of any such residence shall conform to the minimum requirements as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 and this chapter;
(5)
Agricultural operations as defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3, "definitions," to include those practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard; the preparation and planting of pastureland; farm ponds; dairy operations; livestock and poultry management practices; and the construction of farm buildings;
(6)
Forestry land management practices, including harvesting; provided, however, that when such exempt forestry practices cause or result in land-disturbing or other activities otherwise prohibited in a buffer, as established in this chapter, no other land-disturbing activities except for normal forest management practices, shall be allowed on the entire property upon which the forestry practices were conducted for a period of three years after completion of such forestry practices;
(7)
Any project carried out under the technical supervision of the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture;
(8)
Any project involving less than one acre of disturbed area; provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to any land-disturbing activity within a larger common plan of development or sale with a planned disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre or within 200 feet of the bank of any state waters; and for purposes of this subsection, the term "state waters" excludes channels and drainageways which have water in them only during and immediately after rainfall events and intermittent streams which do not have water in them year-round; provided, however, that any person responsible for a project which involves less than one acre, involves land-disturbing activity, and is within 200 feet of any such excluded channel or drainageway, must prevent sediment from moving beyond the boundaries of the property on which such project is located; and provided further, that nothing contained herein shall prevent the city from regulating any such project which is not specifically exempted by this chapter;
(9)
Construction or maintenance projects, or both, undertaken or financed in whole or in part, or both, by the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority; or any road construction or maintenance project, or both, undertaken by any county or municipality; provided, however, that construction or maintenance projects of the department of transportation or the state road and tollway authority which disturb one or more contiguous acres of land shall be subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1; except where the department of transportation, the state highway authority, or the state road and tollway authority is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case a copy of a notice of intent under the state general permit shall be submitted to the city and the city shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders;
(10)
Any land-disturbing activities conducted by any electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the public service commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United States engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power; except where an electric membership corporation or municipal electrical system or any public utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, any utility under the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any cable television system as defined in O.C.G.A. § 36-18-1, or any agency or instrumentality of the United states engaged in the generation, transmission, or distribution of power is a secondary permittee for a project located within a larger common plan of development or sale under the state general permit, in which case the city shall enforce compliance with the minimum requirements set forth in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6 as if a permit had been issued, and violations shall be subject to the same penalties as violations by permit holders; and
(11)
Any public water system reservoir.
(Code 2018, § 15.105)
State Law reference— Statutory exceptions to control of soil erosion and sedimentation state law, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17.
Sec. 28-3. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Best management practices (BMPs) means practices which include sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC), in the most recent edition in effect as of the date that the permitted activity took place.
Board means the state board of natural resources, which oversees rulemaking for the state department of natural resources.
Buffer means the area of land immediately adjacent to the banks of state waters in its natural state of vegetation, which facilitates the protection of water quality and aquatic habitat.
CPESC means certified professional in erosion and sediment control with current certification by Certified Profession in Erosion and Sediment Control Inc., which is also referred to as CPESC or CPESC, Inc.
Certified personnel means a person who has successfully completed the appropriate certification course approved by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
Commission means the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC).
Cut means a portion of land surface or area from which earth has been removed or will be removed by excavation; the depth below original ground surface to the excavated surface; also known as excavation.
Department means the state department of natural resources (DNR).
Design professional means a professional licensed by the state in the field of engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, forestry, geology, or land surveying; or a person that is a certified professional in erosion and sediment control (CPESC) with a current certification by Certified Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control Inc.
Director means the director of the state environmental protection division of the department of natural resources.
Division means the environmental protection division (EPD) of the state department of natural resources.
Drainage structure means a device composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water from one place to another by intercepting the flow and carrying it to a release point for stormwater management, drainage control, or flood control purposes.
Erosion means the process by which land surface is worn away by the action of wind, water, ice, or gravity.
Erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan means a plan required by the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., as may be amended, that includes minimum protections at least as stringent as those set forth in the state general permit (see below), best management practices, and requirements of this article.
Fill means a portion of land surface to which soil or other solid material has been added; the depth above the original ground surface or an excavation.
Final stabilization means all soil-disturbing activities at the site have been completed and unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures and areas located outside the waste disposal limits of a landfill cell that has been certified by EPD for waste disposal, 100 percent of the soil surface is uniformly covered in permanent vegetation with a density of 70 percent or greater; or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap, gabions, permanent mulches, or geotextiles) have been used. Permanent vegetation shall consist of planted trees, shrubs, or perennial vines; a crop of perennial vegetation appropriate for the time of year and region, or a crop of annual vegetation and a seeding of target crop perennials appropriate for the region. Final stabilization applies to each phase of construction.
Finished grade means the final elevation and contour of the ground after cutting or filling, and conforming to the proposed design.
Grading means altering the shape of ground surfaces to a predetermined condition, including stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling, and shaping or any combination thereof, and including the land in its cut or filled condition.
Ground elevation means the original elevation of the ground surface prior to cutting or filling.
Land disturbing activity means any activity which may result in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into state waters or onto lands within the state, including, but not limited to, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land but not including agricultural practices as described in this chapter.
Larger common plan of development or sale means a contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction activities are occurring under one plan of development or sale. For the purposes of this chapter, the term "plan" means an announcement; piece of documentation such as a sign, public notice or hearing, sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, or computer design; or physical demarcation such as boundary signs, lot stakes, or surveyor markings, indicating that construction activities may occur on a specific plot.
Maintenance means actions necessary or appropriate for retaining or restoring a currently serviceable improvement to the specified operable condition to achieve its maximum useful life. Maintenance includes emergency reconstruction of recently damaged parts of a currently serviceable structure so long as it occurs within a reasonable period of time after damage occurs. The term" maintenance" does not include any modification that changes the character, scope, or size of the original design.
Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia (or Manual), published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission (GSWCC), means the published guidance of the commission governing the design and practices to be utilized in the protection of this state's natural resources from erosion and sedimentation which shall be based foremost upon sound engineering principles and repeatable bench and field testing of structural and vegetative best management practices, and which shall have the annual approval of the Erosion and Sediment Control Overview Council established pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7.1. All references to the manual herein shall mean the most recent edition in effect as of the date of the subject activity to which it pertains, unless stated otherwise.
NOI means a notice of intent form provided by the environmental protection division for coverage under the state general permit (see below).
NOT means a notice of termination form provided by the environmental protection division to terminate coverage under the state general permit.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before any grading, excavation, or filling.
Nephelometric turbidity units (NTUs) means numerical units of measure based upon photometric analytical techniques for measuring the light scattered by finely divided particles of a substance in suspension. This technique is used to estimate the extent of turbidity in water in which colloidally dispersed or suspended particles are present.
Operator means the party or parties who have:
(1)
Operational control of construction project plans and specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications; or
(2)
Day-to-day operational control of those activities that are necessary to ensure compliance with a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions, such as a person authorized to direct workers at a site to carry out activities required by the stormwater pollution prevention plan or to comply with other permit conditions.
Outfall means the location where stormwater in a discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance leaves a facility or site or, if there is a receiving water on-site, becomes a point source discharging into that receiving water.
Permit means the authorization necessary to conduct a land-disturbing activity under the provisions of this chapter.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility, cooperative, state agency, municipality or other political subdivision of the state, any interstate body, or any other legal entity.
Phase or phased means subparts or segments of construction projects where the subpart or segment is constructed and stabilized prior to completing construction activities on the entire construction site.
Project means the entire proposed development project, regardless of the size of the area of land to be disturbed.
Properly designed means designed in accordance with the design requirements and specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission in the most recent edition in effect as of the date of the subject activity to which it pertains, unless stated otherwise, and amendments to the manual as approved by the commission up until the date of NOI submittal.
Qualified personnel means any person who meets or exceeds the education and training requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
Roadway drainage structure means a device such as a bridge, culvert, or ditch, composed of a virtually non-erodible material such as concrete, steel, plastic, or other such material that conveys water under a roadway by intercepting the flow on one side of a traveled roadway consisting of one or more defined lanes, with or without shoulder areas, and carrying water to a release point on the other side.
Sediment means solid material, both organic and inorganic, that is in suspension, being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by wind, water, ice, or gravity as a product of erosion.
Sedimentation means the process by which eroded material is transported and deposited by the action of water, wind, ice, or gravity.
Serviceable means usable in its current state or with minor maintenance but not so degraded as to essentially require reconstruction.
Stabilization means the process of establishing an enduring soil cover of vegetation by the installation of temporary or permanent structures for the purpose of reducing to a minimum the erosion process and the resultant transport of sediment by wind, water, ice, or gravity.
State general permit means the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permit or permits for stormwater runoff from construction activities as is now in effect or as may be amended or reissued in the future pursuant to the state's authority to implement the same through federal delegation under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq., and O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f).
State waters means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs, wells, and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the boundaries of the state which are not entirely confined and retained completely upon the property of a single individual, partnership, or corporation.
Structural erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control practices means practices for the stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by utilizing the mechanical properties of matter for the purpose of either changing the surface of the land or storing, regulating, or disposing of runoff to prevent excessive sediment loss. Examples of structural erosion and sediment control practices are riprap, sediment basins, dikes, level spreaders, waterways or outlets, diversions, grade stabilization structures and sediment traps, etc. Such practices can be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Vegetative erosion and sedimentation control measures means measures for stabilization of erodible or sediment-producing areas by covering the soil using one of the following approaches: permanent seeding, sprigging, or planting, producing long-term vegetative cover; temporary seeding, producing short-term vegetative cover; or sodding, covering areas with a turf of perennial sod-forming grass. Such measures may be found in the publication, Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia.
Watercourse means any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, river, creek, channel, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in which water flows either continuously or intermittently and which has a definite channel, bed, and banks, and including any area adjacent thereto subject to inundation by reason of overflow or floodwater.
Wetlands means those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Code 2018, § 15.103)
State Law reference— Statutory definitions relating to Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-3.
Secs. 28-4—28-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS/BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Best management practices required for all land-disturbing activities and minimum standards for rules and regulations, ordinances, and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6.

Sec. 28-25. - General requirements.
(a)
Excessive soil erosion and resulting sedimentation can take place during land-disturbing activities if requirements of the ordinance and the NPDES general permit are not met. Therefore, plans for those land-disturbing activities which are not exempted by this chapter shall contain provisions for application of soil erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control measures and practices. The provisions shall be incorporated into the erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plans.
(b)
Soil erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control measures and practices shall conform to the minimum requirements of this chapter. The application of measures and practices shall apply to all features of the site, including street and utility installations, drainage facilities, and other temporary and permanent improvements. Measures shall be installed to prevent or control erosion, sedimentation, and pollution during all stages of any land-disturbing activity in accordance with requirements of this article and the NPDES general permit.
(c)
Best management practices as set forth in this chapter shall be required for all land-disturbing activities. Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action taken by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with this chapter or any substantially similar terms contained in a permit for the discharge of stormwater issued pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f) of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-20 through 12-5-53. As used in this chapter, the terms "proper design" and "properly designed" mean designed in accordance with the hydraulic design specifications contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-6(b).
(d)
A discharge of stormwater runoff from disturbed areas where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained shall constitute a separate violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by a city or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f) of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, for each day on which such discharge results in the turbidity of receiving waters being increased by more than 25 nephelometric turbidity units for waters supporting warm water fisheries. The turbidity of the receiving waters shall be measured in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the director. This subsection shall not apply to any land disturbance associated with the construction of single-family homes which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale unless the planned disturbance for such construction is equal to or greater than five acres.
(e)
Failure to properly design, install, or maintain best management practices shall constitute a violation of any land-disturbing permit issued by the city or of any state general permit issued by the division pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-30(f) of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, for each day on which such failure occurs.
(f)
The director may require, in accordance with regulations adopted by the board, reasonable and prudent monitoring of the turbidity level of receiving waters into which discharges from land-disturbing activities occur.
(Code 2018, § 15.201)
Sec. 28-26. - Adherence to erosion control manual and additional requirements.
The rules and regulations, ordinances, or resolutions adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq. for the purpose of governing land-disturbing activities shall require, as a minimum, protections at least as stringent as the state general permit; and best management practices, including sound conservation and engineering practices to prevent and minimize erosion and resultant sedimentation, which are consistent with, and no less stringent than, those practices contained in the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia published by the Georgia Soil and Water Conservation Commission in the most recent edition in effect as of the date of the subject activity to which it pertains, unless stated otherwise, as well as the following:
(1)
Stripping of vegetation, regrading, and other development activities shall be conducted in a manner so as to minimize erosion;
(2)
Cut-fill operations must be kept to a minimum;
(3)
Development plans must conform to topography and soil type so as to create the lowest practicable erosion potential;
(4)
Whenever feasible, natural vegetation shall be retained, protected, and supplemented;
(5)
The disturbed area and the duration of exposure to erosive elements shall be kept to a practicable minimum;
(6)
Disturbed soil shall be stabilized as quickly as practicable;
(7)
Temporary vegetation or mulching shall be employed to protect exposed critical areas during development;
(8)
Permanent vegetation and structural erosion control practices shall be installed as soon as practicable;
(9)
To the extent necessary, sediment in runoff water must be trapped by the use of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or similar measures until the disturbed area is stabilized; and as used in this subsection, a disturbed area is stabilized when it is brought to a condition of continuous compliance with the requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq.;
(10)
Adequate provisions must be provided to minimize damage from surface water to the cut face of excavations or the sloping of fills;
(11)
Cuts and fills may not endanger adjoining property;
(12)
Fills may not encroach upon natural watercourses or constructed channels in a manner so as to adversely affect other property owners;
(13)
Grading equipment must cross flowing streams by means of bridges or culverts except when such methods are not feasible, provided, in any case, that such crossings are kept to a minimum;
(14)
Land disturbing activity plans for erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control shall include provisions for treatment or control of any source of sediments and adequate sedimentation control facilities to retain sediments on-site or preclude sedimentation of adjacent waters beyond the levels specified in this chapter;
(15)
There is established a 25-foot buffer along the banks of all state waters, as measured horizontally from the point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, except where the director determines to allow a variance that is at least as protective of natural resources and the environment; where otherwise allowed by the director pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8; where a drainage structure or a roadway drainage structure must be constructed, provided that adequate erosion control measures are incorporated in the project plans and specifications, and are implemented; or along any ephemeral stream. As used in this provision, the term "ephemeral stream" means a stream that under normal circumstances, has water flowing only during and for a short duration after precipitation events; has the channel located above the groundwater table year-round; for which groundwater is not a source of water; and for which runoff from precipitation is the primary source of water flow. Unless exempted as along an ephemeral stream, the buffers of at least 25 feet established pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq. of the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-20 et seq., shall remain in force unless a variance is granted by the director as provided in this subsection. The following requirements shall apply to any such buffer:
a.
No land-disturbing activities shall be conducted within a buffer, and a buffer shall remain in its natural, undisturbed state of vegetation until all land-disturbing activities on the construction site are completed. Once the final stabilization of the site is achieved, a buffer may be thinned or trimmed of vegetation as long as a protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed; provided, however, that any person constructing a single-family residence, when such residence is constructed by or under contract with the owner for his own occupancy, may thin or trim vegetation in a buffer at any time as long as protective vegetative cover remains to protect water quality and aquatic habitat and a natural canopy is left in sufficient quantity to keep shade on the streambed; and
b.
The buffer shall not apply to land-disturbing activities at:
1.
Stream crossings for water lines; or
2.
Stream crossings for sewer lines;
provided that they occur at an angle, as measured from the point of crossing, within 25 degrees of perpendicular to the stream; cause a width of disturbance of not more than 50 feet within the buffer; and adequate erosion control measures are incorporated into the project plans and specifications and are implemented.
(Code 2018, § 15.202)
Sec. 28-27. - Injury not proof of violation.
The fact that land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of, nor create a presumption of, a violation of the standards provided for in this article or the terms of the permit.
(Code 2018, § 15.203)
Secs. 28-28—28-57. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - APPLICATION AND PERMIT PROCESS

Sec. 28-58. - Design and review compliance prior to plan submittal.
The property owner, developer, and designated planners and engineers shall design and review before submittal of the general development plans. The city shall review the tract to be developed and the area surrounding it. They shall consult the zoning ordinance, stormwater management ordinance, subdivision ordinance, flood damage prevention ordinance, this chapter, and any other ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits which regulate the development of land within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city. However, the owner and/or operator are the only parties who may obtain a permit.
(Code 2018, § 15.301)
Sec. 28-59. - Permit application requirements.
No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city without first providing a copy of notice of intent submitted to the division and without obtaining a permit from the city to perform such activity if required by this chapter. The following permit applications procedures are hereby established and shall control processing and issuance of permits under this chapter:
(1)
Plan and data. The application for a permit shall be submitted to the city and must include the applicant's erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan with supporting data, as necessary. Said plans shall include, as a minimum, the data specified in this chapter. Erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plans, together with supporting data, must demonstrate affirmatively that the land-disturbing activity proposed will be carried out in such a manner that the provisions of this chapter will be met. Applications for a permit will not be accepted unless accompanied by four copies of the applicant's erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plans. All applications shall contain a certification stating that the plan preparer or the designee thereof visited the site prior to creation of the plan in accordance with EPD Rule 391-3-7.10.
(2)
Fees. In addition to the local permitting fees, fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(a)(5), provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land-disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land-disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. All applicable fees shall be paid prior to issuance of the land disturbance permit. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a), half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from the county department of environmental health services, county road department, and those entities which are required to give notice pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17(9) shall be submitted in full to the division.
(3)
Division review of plans. The terms of the state general permit shall apply to all land-disturbing activity in the city, and the terms of the state general permit shall be enforced by the division. Following receipt of an application and plan for a permit and following completion of local review for compliance, the applicant shall refer the application and plan to the division for its review concerning the erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan. The results of the division's review shall be forwarded to the city. No permit will be issued by the city unless the plan has been submitted to the division, any variances required by this chapter have been obtained, and all fees have been paid.
(4)
Denial for violations. If a permit applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits, this chapter, or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as may be amended, within three years prior to the date of filing the application under consideration, the city may deny the permit application.
(Code 2018, § 15.302)
Sec. 28-60. - Plan requirements.
All erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plans shall comply with the following requirements:
(1)
Plans must be prepared to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter, or through the use of more stringent, alternate design criteria which conform to sound conservation and engineering practices. The Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia is hereby incorporated by reference into this chapter.
(2)
The plan for the land-disturbing activity shall consider the interrelationship of the soil types, geological and hydrological characteristics, topography, watershed, vegetation, proposed permanent structures including roadways, constructed waterways, sediment control and stormwater management facilities, local ordinances, and state laws. Maps, drawings, and supportive computations shall bear the signature and seal of the certified design professional.
(3)
Data required for site plan shall include all the information required from the appropriate erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan review checklist established by the commission as of January 1 of the year in which the land-disturbing activity was or will be permitted.
(Code 2018, § 15.303)
Sec. 28-61. - Permits.
(a)
Time limit on issue or denial. Permits shall be issued or denied as soon as practicable but in any event not later than 45 calendar days after receipt by the city of a completed application, providing variances are obtained where necessary and all applicable fees have been paid prior to permit issuance. The permit shall include conditions under which the activity may be undertaken.
(b)
Permit requires plan approval. No permit shall be issued by the city unless the erosion, sedimentation, and pollution control plan has been approved by the city and the city has affirmatively determined that the plan is in compliance with this chapter; any variances required are obtained; bonding requirements, if necessary, are met; and all ordinances and rules and regulations in effect within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city are met. If the permit is denied, the reason for denial shall be furnished to the applicant.
(c)
Land disturbance consistent with this chapter. Any land-disturbing activities by the city shall be subject to the same requirements of this chapter as are applied to private persons, and the division shall enforce such requirements upon the city.
(d)
Phasing. If the tract is to be developed in phases, then a separate permit shall be required for each phase.
(e)
Reasons if denied. The city, upon denial of a permit, shall state its reasons for the denial, setting forth specifically wherein such application is found to be deficient.
(f)
Suspension, revocation, or modification of permit. The permit may be suspended, revoked, or modified by the city as to all or any portion of the land affected by the plan, upon finding that the holder or his successor in title is not in compliance with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan, or that the holder or his successor in title is in violation of this chapter. A holder of a permit shall notify any successor in title as to all or any portion of the land affected by the approved plan of the conditions contained in the permit.
(g)
Rejection for prior violations. The city may reject a permit application if the applicant has had two or more violations of previous permits or the Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975 permit requirements within three years prior to the date of the application, in light of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-7(f)(1).
(Code 2018, § 15.304)
Secs. 28-62—28-80. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 28-81. - Inspections.
(a)
Inspections and regulation of permittees. The city may periodically inspect the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to determine if the activities are being conducted in accordance with the plan and if the measures required in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation. Also, the city shall regulate primary, secondary, and tertiary permittees as such terms are defined in the state general permit.
(b)
Permittee responsibilities. Primary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the primary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Secondary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of best management practices where the secondary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities. Tertiary permittees shall be responsible for installation and maintenance where the tertiary permittee is conducting land-disturbing activities.
(c)
Notice to comply for noncompliance. If, through inspection, it is deemed that a person engaged in land-disturbing activities as defined herein has failed to comply with the approved plan, permit conditions, or the provisions of this chapter, a written notice to comply shall be served upon that person. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve compliance and shall state the time within which such measures must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activity fails to comply within the time specified, he shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 15.401)
Sec. 28-82. - Investigations.
The city shall have the power to conduct such investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out duties as prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigation and inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
(Code 2018, § 15.402)
Sec. 28-83. - No refusal of access.
No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized representative or agent of the city, the commission, or division who requests entry for the purposes of inspection and who presents appropriate credentials; nor shall any person obstruct, hamper, or interfere with any such representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
(Code 2018, § 15.403)
Sec. 28-84. - Failure to obtain a permit for land-disturbing activity.
If any person commences any land-disturbing activity requiring a land-disturbing permit as prescribed in this chapter without first obtaining said permit, the person shall be subject to revocation of his business license, work permit, or other authorization for the conduct of a business and associated work activities within the jurisdictional boundaries of the city.
(Code 2018, § 15.404)
Sec. 28-85. - Stop-work orders.
(a)
Whenever the director has reason to believe that a violation of any provision of the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., any rule or regulation of the board, or any order of the director has occurred, the city or the director may issue an order directed to such violator or violators. For the first and second violations of the provisions of this chapter, the director or the city shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five business days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five business days, the director or the city shall issue a stop-work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state or if the land-disturbing activities are conducted without obtaining the necessary permit, the director or the city shall issue an immediate stop-work order in lieu of a warning.
(b)
For a third and each subsequent violation, the director or the city shall issue an immediate stop-work order.
(c)
All stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(d)
When a violation in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment as determined by the city or by the director or his designee have been or are being discharged into state waters, and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop-work order shall be issued by the city or by the director or his designee. All such stop-work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop-work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.
(Code 2018, § 15.405)
Sec. 28-86. - Injunctions.
Whenever in the judgment of the director, any person has engaged in or is about to engage in any act or practice which constitutes or would constitute a violation of the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to that state law, or any order or permit conditions in the city, the director may make application to the superior court of the county where such person resides or, if such person is a nonresident of the state, to the superior court of the county in which the violative act or practice has been or is about to be engaged in, for an order enjoining such act or practice or for an order requiring compliance with the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-1 et seq., the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to that state law, or the order or permit condition. Upon a showing by the director that such person has engaged in or is about to engage in any such violative act or practice, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order shall be granted without the necessity of showing the lack of an adequate remedy at law.
(Code 2018, § 15.406)
Sec. 28-87. - Monetary penalties.
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or any permit condition or limitation established pursuant to this chapter, or who negligently or intentionally fails or refuses to comply with any final or emergency order of the director issued as provided in this chapter, shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 per day. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, municipal courts shall be authorized to impose penalty not to exceed $2,500.00 for each violation. Each day during which a violation or failure or refusal to comply continues, shall be a separate violation.
(Code 2018, § 15.407)
State Law reference— Civil penalties for violations of soil erosion and sedimentation control rules and regulations, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-15.
Secs. 28-88—28-117. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATION

Sec. 28-118. - Education and training certification requirements.
Persons involved in land development design, review, permitting, construction, monitoring, or inspections, or any land-disturbing activity, shall meet the education and training certification requirements, dependent on their level of involvement with the process, as developed by the commission and in consultation with the division and the stakeholder advisory board created pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-20.
(Code 2018, § 15.501)
State Law reference— Education and training certification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19.
Sec. 28-119. - On-site responsibility.
(a)
For each site on which land-disturbing activity occurs, whenever land-disturbing activities are conducted on that site, each entity or person acting as either a primary, secondary, or tertiary permittee, as defined in the state general permit, shall have present on-site as a minimum, one person who is in charge of and responsible for erosion and sedimentation control activities on behalf of said entity or person, who meets the applicable education or training certification requirements developed by the commission. A project site shall herein be defined as any land disturbance site or multiple sites within a larger common plan of development or sale permitted by an owner or operator for compliance with the state general permit.
(b)
Persons or entities involved in projects not requiring a state general permit but otherwise requiring certified personnel on-site may contract with certified persons to meet the requirements of this chapter.
(c)
If a state general permittee who has operational control of land-disturbing activities for a site has met the certification requirements of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(1), then any person or entity involved in land-disturbing activity at that site and operating in a subcontractor capacity for such permittee shall meet those educational requirements specified in O.C.G.A. § 12-7-19(b)(4), and shall not be required to meet any educational requirements that exceed those specified therein.
(Code 2018, § 15.502)
Secs. 28-120—28-136. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 28-137. - Administrative remedies.
The suspension, revocation, modification, or grant with condition of a permit by the city upon finding that the holder is not in compliance with the approved erosion, sediment, and pollution control plan; or that the holder is in violation of permit conditions; or that the holder is in violation of any ordinance; shall entitle the person submitting the plan or holding the permit to a hearing before the Mayor and City Council within 30 calendar days after receipt by the city of written notice of appeal.
(Code 2018, § 15.601)
Sec. 28-138. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the city, after exhausting his administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the superior court of the county.
(Code 2018, § 15.602)
Sec. 28-139. - Liability.
(a)
Neither the approval of a plan under the provisions of this chapter nor the compliance with provisions of this chapter shall relieve any person from the responsibility for damage to any person or property otherwise imposed by law, nor impose any liability upon the city for damage to any person or property.
(b)
The fact that a land-disturbing activity for which a permit has been issued results in injury to the property of another shall neither constitute proof of nor create a presumption of a violation of the standards provided for in this chapter or the terms of the permit.
(c)
No provision of this chapter shall permit any persons to violate the Georgia Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975, as may be amended, the Georgia Water Quality Control Act, or the rules and regulations promulgated and approved thereunder, or pollute any waters of the state as defined thereby.
(Code 2018, § 15.604)
