ARTICLE II. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP

Sec. 34-31. - Zoning districts established.
The following zoning districts are hereby established:
EXPAND
AG Agricultural District
RR Rural Residential District
SR Suburban Residential District
INST Institutional District
TC Town Center District
HB Highway Business District
  (Code 2018, § 16.201)
Sec. 34-32. - Official zoning map.
(a)
The boundaries of zoning districts created by this chapter are hereby established as shown on a map entitled the "Official Zoning Map" of the City of Nicholson, Georgia.
(b)
The official zoning map and all explanatory matter thereon accompany and are hereby made a part of this chapter. The official zoning map shall indicate the date of adoption and most recent amendment. The original of the official zoning map shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
(c)
The official zoning map may be kept electronically in a geographic information system and such electronic data shall constitute an integral part of the official zoning map.
(d)
The city may make copies of the official zoning map available to the public for a reasonable fee.
(Code 2018, § 16.202)
Sec. 34-33. - Amendment of official zoning map.
If, in accordance with the provisions of article VIII of this chapter, the City Council approves changes in the district boundaries or other subject matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be made promptly after the amendment or change has been approved by the City Council. Once an amendment to the official zoning map has been approved by the City Council, it shall be considered an administrative action to amend the official zoning map to properly depict the map amendment approved by the City Council, and additional approval or action by City Council shall not be necessary.
(Code 2018, § 16.203)
Sec. 34-34. - Correction and update of property lines on official zoning map.
(a)
The Zoning Administrator is authorized to correct or update property lines depicted on the official zoning map as such changes to the tax records of the city are made through land subdivision and combination of lots, without a requirement to seek approval of the City Council, provided that such changes to property lines do not affect a zoning or overlay district boundary except as otherwise specifically provided in this section.
(b)
In any instance where the property lines as shown on a the official zoning map deviate from a boundary survey prepared by a registered land surveyor for the lot or tract in question, and such deviation is attributed by the Zoning Administrator to a drafting error or imperfection in the property parcel database originally used in preparing the official zoning map, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to correct the official zoning map to show the boundaries of the zoning or overlay district to follow the boundaries as shown on said boundary survey. Any such correction shall be considered an administrative action, and additional approval or action by City Council shall not be necessary to correct the official zoning map.
(Code 2018, § 16.204)
Sec. 34-35. - Rules governing boundaries.
This section shall govern administrative determinations by the Zoning Administrator in cases where there is uncertainty with regard to the zoning and/or overlay district boundaries shown on the official zoning map. Where such uncertainty exists, the following provisions shall apply:
(1)
City limit lines. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the corporate limit line of the city, such corporate limit line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(2)
Street centerlines and rights-of-way. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of streets or highways, street right-of-way lines, or such lines extended, such centerline, street right-of-way lines, or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(3)
Property lines. Where boundaries are indicated as following property lines, such property lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. The boundaries shall be determined on the basis of the legal descriptions or boundary surveys associated with approved map amendments, where available.
(4)
Stream beds and riverbeds. Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following the centerline of stream beds or riverbeds, or the outer edge of such stream bed or riverbed, such centerline or edge of stream bed or riverbed shall be construed to be such boundaries.
(5)
Abandonment. Where a public street or other right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, and said street or right-of-way is also a zoning district or overlay district boundary, the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply to such vacated or abandoned public street or right-of-way.
(6)
Administrative determination. In any case where the exact location of a boundary cannot be determined by the foregoing methods, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the location of the boundary. Any such administrative determination is subject to appeal as an administrative decision in accordance with article VIII of this chapter.
(Code 2018, § 16.205)
Secs. 34-36—34-60. - Reserved.
