ARTICLE VI. - STORM DRAINAGE AND UTILITIES

Sec. 32-226. - Easements.
Where a subdivision or land development is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater or drainage easement at least 20 feet in width. Easements for storm pipes shall be at least 15 feet wide, and all easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the city engineer and the administrative officer. Where easements are needed for utility locations, they shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer to the appropriate utility provider. Easements having a minimum width of 15 feet shall be provided where required for utility lines and underground mains and cables. Where easements are needed for public water and/or sewer lines, they shall be provided as determined appropriate by the utility provider and the administrative officer, but shall be no less than 20 feet wide. All easements required pursuant to this section shall be shown on any required final plat and development plan.
(Code 2018, § 17.701)
Sec. 32-227. - Storm drainage system.
No land shall be platted or developed except in accordance with stormwater management standards provided in this chapter and any additional specifications adopted by the City Council. At a minimum, storm drainage in subdivisions and land developments shall meet the following requirements. The storm drains along with catchbasins and manholes shall be installed in compliance with the plans and specifications, and as indicated herein.
(1)
Every subdivision or land development shall be served by storm drainage facilities, including drains, sewers, catch basins, culverts, and other facilities as required by standards and specifications of the city engineer.
(2)
All drainage facilities shall be so designed to serve the entire drainage area in which these facilities are located. All road drains serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the city engineer and administrative officer to provide for a sharing of the cost of other drainage facilities needed to serve the subdivision when certain of the required drainage facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions or land developments in the same drainage basin.
(3)
Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the rational method, or other methods proposed by a professional engineer and accepted by the city engineer as a substitute for the rational method, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with required plans. Capacity for a 25-year storm or rain shall be provided for all road drainage structures such as catch basins, inlets cross drains, etc., except that along state rights-of-way, the design shall meet standards of the Georgia Department of Transportation.
(4)
All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm sewers or to drainage facilities approved by the city engineer. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. Stormwater shall not be discharged directly to perennial streams. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
(5)
Whenever drainage ditches are used, such ditches shall retain natural design characteristics and be so designed such that they do not present a hazard to life and safety or create erosion problems.
(6)
All drainage features shall be in accordance with standards and specifications of the city as may be recommended by the city engineer, and no extension shall be made from the road drainage through the abutting property without approval of the city engineer.
(7)
When the construction of a proposed public road makes it necessary to cross a storm drain, the developer shall provide and install the required size and length of an acceptable grade of pipe.
a.
In cases where the developer or subdivider chooses not to develop the land through which the drain runs, then the trench may be left open; provided, however, that in such cases the plat must be so marked and an easement shown thereon, indicating that no building or driveway shall be built over or within 40 feet of the open drain.
b.
Where the developer chooses to leave the drain open and the same is crossed by a driveway, the size of pipe shall be determined by the city engineer and no building will be approved unless the installation meets the requirements of the city engineer.
c.
Notwithstanding the above controls, the administrative officer may refuse to issue building approval on any lot or lots where the land is subject to floods or where, in the opinion of the administrative officer, the elevations of the property are such that a building could not be properly maintained on the lot.
(Code 2018, § 17.702)
Sec. 32-228. - Water system.
All water mains, where provided, shall be designed by a professional engineer and installed along with a service connection for each lot or land development and be in operating condition prior to final plat approval, if required, and paving installation. All pipes, valves, and other components shall conform to Nicholson Water Authority specifications if served by a municipal water supply; or Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority regulations, if served by the county.
(Code 2018, § 17.703)
Sec. 32-229. - Fire hydrants.
Fire hydrants, if required, shall be located and set in accordance with Nicholson Water Authority and Fire District specifications (or by the Jackson County Water and Sewerage Authority, if within the county's service area). Fire hydrants shall be required for all nonresidential land developments and all subdivisions where a municipal, county, or community water supply exists. In such cases where a municipal, county, or community water supply exists, fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development shall be provided by the subdivider or land developer as required by the county fire district. Fire hydrants, if required, shall be located with separation distances approved by the fire district. Hydrants, fittings, valves, and fire district connections shall be approved by the fire district. Fire district connections shall be not less than 18 inches or more than 36 inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving. The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the fire district. To eliminate repavement of roads, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a road within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
(Code 2018, § 17.704)
Sec. 32-230. - Sanitary sewerage system.
(a)
When, in the written opinion of the Jackson County Health Department, public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the subdivision or land development, the subdivider or land developer shall provide sanitary sewer services designed by a professional engineer licensed in the state to each lot within the bounds of the subdivision, or to the land development. All road sewers, where required, serving lots in the subdivision shall be installed by the subdivider. A formula may be developed by the administrative officer to provide for a sharing of the costs of other sewer facilities needed to serve the subdivision or land development when certain of the required sewer facilities are necessary to serve other subdivisions or land developments in the same drainage basin.
(b)
When, in the written opinion of the Jackson County Health Department, a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, an alternate method of sewage disposal for each lot or the land development may be used when in compliance with the standards of the Jackson County Health Department, if accepted by the City Council. If public sewerage is not available but is expected to be available within a reasonable time period after completion of the subdivision or land development, an alternate method for sewage disposal for individual lots or the land development will be required on an interim basis. In such instances, unless otherwise determined by the City Council, the developer will be required to construct a complete sanitary sewer system for the subdivision or land development, including outfall lines, road sewers, and service stubs to individual lots. All sewers will be plugged and otherwise protected to ensure serviceability at the time of connection to the public system, and will conform to the specifications of the owner of the system if applicable, and the city engineer.
(Code 2018, § 17.705)
Sec. 32-231. - Utilities.
(a)
All utility improvements within subdivisions and developments shall be located within the right-of-way of a public street or, if permitted, a private street, or within an easement designated for such use meeting specifications of this chapter.
(b)
The electric system and any other underground utility system, when it is provided in a subdivision or land development, shall be installed along with service connections before any paving of roads. All utility facilities, including but not limited to electric power, telephone, and cable television, shall be located underground throughout the subdivision or land development.
(Code 2018, § 17.706)
Secs. 32-232—32-260. - Reserved.
