ARTICLE III. - ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP

Sec. 119-141. - Establishment of districts.
For the purposes of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into districts designated as follows:
(1)
R-44 single-family rural residential district. This district is intended to provide suitable rurally-oriented open areas and other amenities for single-family detached dwellings at low densities, with access to public water and sewer.
(2)
R-22 single-family suburban residential district. This district is intended to provide suitable open areas for single-family, detached dwellings located in a suburban setting at low to moderate densities, with access to public water and sewer.
(3)
R-16 single-family urban residential district (inactive). This district is intended to provide suitable areas for single-family, detached dwellings at medium densities, with access to both public water and sewer. No new applications for rezoning to this district are accepted. Properties already designated R-16 may be developed under the standards contained in this chapter.
(4)
RM-4 multifamily residential duplex district. This district is intended to provide suitable areas for two-family dwellings at low to medium densities with access to both public water and sewer.
(5)
RM-6 multifamily residential medium density apartments district. This district is intended to provide suitable areas for two-family and multifamily dwellings at medium densities, with access to both public water and sewer.
(6)
RM-8 multifamily residential moderate density apartment district (inactive). This district is intended to provide suitable areas for multifamily dwellings at medium to high densities, with access to both public water and sewer. No new applications for rezoning to this district are accepted. Properties already designated RM-8 may be developed under the standards contained in this chapter.
(7)
MHP manufactured home park district. This district is intended exclusively for the placement of manufactured homes in an environment that will provide pleasant and otherwise satisfactory living conditions and, at the same time, will not produce adverse effects upon neighboring properties.
(8)
O and I office and institutional district. This district is intended to encourage and provide suitable areas for professional offices, hospitals, medical and dental clinics and certain related activities, with a minimum of interference from traffic and conflicting uses.
(9)
CH commercial highway district. This district is intended to promote suitable areas for those business and commercial uses which primarily serve the traveling public and benefit from direct access to major streets.
(10)
CN commercial neighborhood district. This district is intended to provide suitable areas for the retailing of goods and services to surrounding residential neighborhoods. The regulations of the district are designed to reduce traffic and parking congestion to a minimum in order to protect surrounding residential areas.
(11)
CBD commercial central business district. This district is intended to protect and promote suitable areas for business and commercial uses that benefit from proximity to each other, to encourage the eventual elimination of uses inappropriate to the central business area, and to encourage a centralized business center for the city.
(12)
LI light industrial district. This district is intended to protect and promote suitable areas for light industrial uses, including manufacturing, assembling, processing, wholesaling and storage by providing access to major streets and adequate public utilities, and by discouraging uses incompatible with light manufacturing.
(13)
HI heavy industrial district. This district provides a location for those industrial operations and processes that are not public nuisances and are not dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare, but should be located adjoining major streets.
(14)
PUV planned urban village. This district is intended to encourage and accommodate high-quality, pedestrian-oriented, unified design and combinations of residential, commercial, office, professional services, retail and public uses and facilities in accordance with an approved master plan. The district allows for flexibility and encourages creative, efficient and aesthetically desirable design and placement of buildings, open spaces, circulation patterns and parking facilities in order to best utilize special site features of topography, size or shape.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2); Ord. of 11-12-2020(2), § 1)
Sec. 119-142. - Official zoning maps.
(a)
The city is hereby divided into zoning districts, as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(b)
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city manager or designee, and bearing the seal of the city under the following words:
This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in the 2005 Zoning Ordinance of the City of Loganville, Georgia," [together with the date of adoption of the ordinance.]
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-143. - Amendment to maps.
(a)
If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the city council, with an entry in the minutes of such council meeting as follows: "On____________, by official action of the city council, the following (change) changes (was) were made to the Official Zoning Map: (brief description of nature of change or changes)", which entry shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the city manager or designee. No amendment to this chapter is official until such change and entry is made on said map.
(b)
No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures for amendment as set forth in this chapter.
(c)
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map, which shall be located in the office of the city manager or designee, shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of the city.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-144. - Replacement of official zoning map.
(a)
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the city council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map, which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map, but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map, and said map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor and the following words: "This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted ____________, 2005, as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the city of Loganville, GA."
(b)
Unless the previous official zoning map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant remaining parts thereof, shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Sec. 119-145. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the location of the boundaries of any zoning district in the city, the following rules shall apply:
(1)
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as approximately following a corporate limits line, a militia district line, a land lot line or the centerline of a street, a county road, a state highway, or a right-of-way or such lines extended, then such lines shall be construed to be the zoning district boundary lines.
(2)
Where a zoning district boundary line is shown as being set back from a street, a county road, a state highway, or a right-of-way, and approximately parallel thereto, then such zoning district boundary line shall be construed as being at the scaled distance from the centerline of the street, county road, state highway, interstate highway or railroad right-of-way and as being parallel thereto.
(3)
Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot, the location of the line shall be the scaled distance from the lot lines.
(4)
In the case of a double frontage lot fronting on two approximately parallel streets that is divided by a zoning district boundary line paralleling the streets, the restrictions of the zoning district in which each frontage of the double frontage lot lies shall apply to that portion of the double frontage lot.
(5)
Where zoning district boundaries are in doubt, the planning commission shall make such interpretation using the appropriate scale from the official zoning map.
(Ord. of 9-18-2014(2))
Secs. 119-146—119-175. - Reserved.
