Chapter 42 - FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 42-1. - False alarms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully give a false alarm of fire.
(Code 1982, § 10-9)
State Law reference— Transmitting false report of fire, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-27.
Sec. 42-2. - Outdoor fires.
(a)
Bonfires, rubbish fires and leaf fires. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire, rubbish fire or leaf fire without a permit.
(b)
Fires during construction or demolition. During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste material or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit or other proper authorization.
(c)
Location and container. No permit shall authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land unless the:
(1)
Location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any structure; or
(2)
Fire is contained in an approved waste burner, safely located not less than 15 feet from any structure.
(d)
Attendance. Fire under a permit shall be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. Such person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply, or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
(e)
Authority to prohibit. The fire chief may prohibit any or all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(Code 1982, § 10-10)
Secs. 42-3—42-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FIRE DEPARTMENT

Sec. 42-31. - Composition.
The fire department shall consist of a chief of the fire department and other members appointed by him.
(Code 1982, § 17-40)
Charter reference— Authority to make and enforce fire protection and prevention measures, § 29.
Sec. 42-32. - Chief of the fire department.
The mayor and city council shall appoint a chief of the fire department and as many assistant chiefs as it may see fit. All members and assistants shall take orders from the chief of the fire department when fighting fires.
(Code 1982, § 17-41)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 42-33. - Adoption of rules and regulations.
The chief of the fire department may adopt such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary or proper for the government and conduct of the fire department, and when such rules and regulations are adopted, they shall be binding on each member of the fire department.
(Code 1982, § 17-42)
Sec. 42-34. - Policy and procedure manual.
The Policy and Procedure Manual for the Fort Valley Fire Department, as amended, is adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in this section.
(Mo. of 1-20-1994)
Sec. 42-35. - Firefighting service outside city limits.
(a)
The fire department is authorized to render firefighting service to owners or occupants of premises outside the corporate limits of the city within the area described in the following subsection (b) of this section, on the terms and conditions set forth in this section.
(b)
The area covered by this section shall include all the land lying within the unincorporated area of the county lying south and west of Mule Creek until its confluence with Mossy Creek, and south and west of Mossy Creek thereafter.
(c)
Such firefighting service shall be rendered only pursuant to the terms and conditions of an intergovernmental contract between the governing authorities of the city and county, which contract shall be in writing and shall provide for payment of a specified sum per fire call to be made by the county government to the city government, and shall further provide for termination by either party upon 60 days' written notice.
(d)
No service shall be rendered to any premises outside the city unless, at the time, one complete unit of firefighting apparatus and sufficient personnel to operate the apparatus remain in the city.
(e)
Neither the city nor the county governing authority shall be deemed to have waived any immunity otherwise secured to it by law by the execution or performance of any contract for firefighting services pursuant to this section.
(Code 1982, § 10-11)
Secs. 42-36—42-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - FIRE PREVENTION

Sec. 42-71. - Bureau of fire prevention.
(a)
The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the bureau of fire prevention in the fire department of the city which is hereby established and which shall be operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire department.
(b)
The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as shall be necessary from time to time. The chief of the fire department shall recommend to the mayor and city council the employment of technical inspectors who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department, and the appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(c)
A report of the bureau of fire prevention shall be made annually and transmitted to the mayor. Such report shall contain all proceedings under the fire prevention code, with such statistics as the chief of the fire department may wish to include therein. The chief of the fire department shall also recommend any amendments to the fire prevention code which, in his judgment, shall be desirable.
(Code 1982, § 10-1)
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and committees, § 2-201 et seq.
Sec. 42-72. - Fire prevention code—Adopted.
(a)
There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the Standard Fire Prevention Code, being particularly the current edition thereof, and the whole thereof, with Georgia amendments, except such portions as are deleted, modified or amended in this article, or are in conflict with this Code or state law; of which fire prevention code a certified copy is on file in the office of the city clerk, and such code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this section, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the city.
(b)
Revisions of and amendments to the fire prevention code may be accepted for use within the city upon consideration thereof and order to that effect adopted by the mayor and city council, by simple order entered on the minutes of the city. The action of the city in accepting such revisions or amendments to such code from time to time by order on its minutes shall not preclude adoption of revisions or amendments by ordinance and incorporation in this Code of Ordinances by reference.
(Code 1982, § 10-2)
Sec. 42-73. - Fire prevention code—Modifications.
The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or the owner's or lessee's duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed and the decision of the chief of the bureau of fire prevention thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the fire department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
(Code 1982, § 10-3)
Sec. 42-74. - Fire prevention code—Appeals.
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the fire prevention code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief of the fire department to the mayor and city council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Code 1982, § 10-5)
Sec. 42-75. - New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits.
The mayor, chief of the fire department and chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those enumerated in the fire prevention code. The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Code 1982, § 10-4)
Sec. 42-76. - Storage of inflammable liquids in outside, above the ground tanks and erection of bulk plants.
(a)
The limits in which storage of inflammable liquids in outside, above the ground tanks is prohibited are hereby established as zoning districts R-1, R-2, C-2, C-3, I-N and N-S as shown and indicated on the zoning map of the city.
(b)
The limits in which new bulk plants for inflammable liquids are prohibited are hereby established as zoning districts R-1, R-2, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-N and N-S as shown and indicated on the zoning map of the city.
(Code 1982, § 10-6)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38.
Sec. 42-77. - Bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases.
The limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted are hereby established as zoning districts R-1, R-2, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-N and N-S as shown and indicated on the zoning map of the city.
(Code 1982, § 10-7)
Cross reference— Environment, ch. 38.
Sec. 42-78. - Storage of explosives and blasting agents.
The limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are hereby established as the corporate limits of the city.
(Code 1982, § 10-8)
