Chapter 30 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - National Incident Management System (NIMS) adopted.
The mayor and council of the city hereby adopts the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as established under HSPD 5 and the Unified Command System as established under O.C.G.A. § 380-3-57 as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents.
(Ord. No. 06-0316-08, 3-16-2006)
Secs. 30-2—30-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

Sec. 30-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for the carrying out of all emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies, energy emergencies, disasters or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin, caused by enemy attack, sabotage, acts of domestic or international terrorism, civil disturbance, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave action, oil spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion, riot or other hostile action, radiological action or other causes. Such functions include, but are not limited to, firefighting services; police services; emergency medical services; rescue; engineering; warning services; communications; defense from radiological, chemical, biological and other special weapons, including weapons of mass destruction; evacuation of persons from stricken areas; emergency welfare services; consequence management functions, including victim services; emergency transportation; plant protection; temporary restoration of public utility services; and other functions related to civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for, and carrying out of, such functions.
Energy emergency means a condition of danger to the health, safety, welfare or economic well-being of the citizens of the state arising out of a present or threatened shortage of usable energy resources; and any condition of substantial danger to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the state resulting from the operation of any electrical power generating facility, the transport of any energy resource by any means whatsoever, or the production, use or disposal of any source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, 68 Stat. 919, 42 USC 2011 et seq.; and any nuclear incident, as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, occurring within or outside the state, substantially affecting the health, safety or welfare of the citizens of the state.
Energy resources means all forms of energy or power, including, but not limited to, oil, gasoline and other petroleum products; natural or synthetic gas; electricity in all forms and from all sources; and other fuels of any description, except wood.
(Code 1982, § 7-1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3.
Sec. 30-32. - Emergency management director.
There is hereby established the city emergency management office. The mayor and city council shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the city. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with:
(1)
Representing the governing officials of the city on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
Assisting city officials in organizing city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
Developing, in conjunction with other city departments, the plan for emergency functions set forth in section 30-31. Such plan will be consonant with the state emergency plan and shall be submitted to the mayor and city council for approval and then to the state director for approval.
(4)
Maintaining the emergency management office in carrying out the day-to-day administration of the emergency management and disaster program, including the rendering of required reports to the state emergency management office.
(5)
Rendering reports, such as financial, daily activity, etc., as required by the governing officials in keeping with good business practices.
(6)
Procuring, with authority of the governing officials, a facility to be used as the city emergency operating center.
(7)
Coordinating the activities of the city emergency operating center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of the governing officials.
(Code 1982, § 7-2)
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-91 et seq.
Sec. 30-33. - Organization.
(a)
The city emergency management organization shall be established around existing city departments and agencies. The emergency functions listed in section 30-31 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Function
Emergency management office Emergency communications
Emergency management office Shelter planning
City police
department Emergency law
enforcement service
City fire department Attack warning, firefighting and rescue service
Utilities department Radiological defense
Emergency management office (coordinate with county) Emergency welfare services
Utilities department Emergency engineering service
City purchasing
department Logistics (resources management)
Emergency management office Emergency public
information
Emergency management office Industrial and institution emergency planning
Emergency management office Coordination of
training
  (b)
Heads of departments listed in subsection (a) of this section are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans shall be submitted through the emergency management director to the mayor and city council for approval.
(Code 1982, § 7-3)
Sec. 30-34. - Emergency powers.
In the event of an actual enemy attack upon the United States or any other disaster which may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the city, the mayor, or in the mayor's absence, the legally appointed successor, may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have, and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
Enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and assume direct operational control over all emergency management forces.
(2)
Seize, take for temporary use or condemn any property for the protection of the public.
(3)
Sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the city and maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
Perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the city.
(Code 1982, § 7-4)
Sec. 30-35. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, performing emergency functions pursuant to this article, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, volunteers shall have the same immunities as city officers and employees.
(Code 1982, § 7-5)
Sec. 30-36. - Violations; penalties.
Any person violating any provision of sections 30-32 through 30-35, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this article, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-12.
(Code 1982, § 7-6)
Sec. 30-37. - Liberality of construction.
This article shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate its purpose.
(Code 1982, § 7-10)
