Chapter 70 - PERSONNEL[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 70-1. - Personnel policy and program.
The city personnel policy and program, as amended from time to time, is on file in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1982, § 17-1)
Secs. 70-2—70-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RETIREMENT[2]
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 70-31—70-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SOCIAL SECURITY

Sec. 70-51. - Old age and survivors insurance benefits.
(a)
Policy and purpose. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible, under the agreement entered into by the state and the Federal Social Security Administration, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities, not excluded by law or by this section, the benefits of the system of old age and survivors insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act, the state enabling act (O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.), and amendments thereto. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(b)
Authority to execute agreements, etc. The mayor or other chief executive officer of the city is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for coverage of the employees and officials as provided for in subsection (a) of this section, to include any employees that are in positions covered by a public retirement system, in the manner provided by such law, namely, the joint municipal employees retirement system.
(c)
Withholdings authorized; disposition. Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided for in subsection (a) of this section are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(d)
Appropriations from general funds. There shall be appropriated from general funds such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employer's contributions and administrative expenses, and such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(e)
Records and reports. The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(f)
Exclusions. There is hereby excluded from this section any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1982, § 17-26)
