CHAPTER 1-8. - ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER

Sec. 1-8-1. - Administrative hearing officer.
There is hereby created the position of administrative hearing officer whose term and duties shall as set out below:
(1)
The administrative hearing officer shall be appointed by the council.
(2)
The duties of the administrative hearing officer shall be the hearing of all issues under the city ordinances which would determine the granting, denial, probating, imposing a monetary administrative penalty, suspending or revoking of any license, permit granted or action taken under the city ordinances, including but not limited to the following:
a.
Any right of direct appeal to the council;
b.
Article 2.1 entitled Hotel-Motel Excise Tax (section 2-1-21 et seq.);
c.
Chapter 3-6 entitled Pollution and Contamination (section 3-6-1 et seq.);
d.
Title 4 entitled Public Works and Health (Chapter 4-1 et seq. through 4-6 et seq.);
e.
Title 5 entitled Municipal Utilities (Chapter 5-1 et seq. and 5-2 et seq.);
f.
Title 6 entitled Licenses, Permits and Business Regulations (Chapters 6-1 et seq. through 6-9 et seq.);
g.
Title 7 entitled Buildings and Construction (Chapter 7-1 et seq.);
h.
Title 8 entitled Planning (Chapters 8-1 et seq. through 8-3 et seq.);
i.
Title 9 entitled Zoning (Chapter 94 et seq.);
j.
Title 10 entitled Schedule of Fees (Chapter 10-1 et seq.).
(3)
The jurisdiction of said hearing officer over such licenses, permits or action taken shall be in addition to and concurrent with that of the municipal court of the city.
(4)
Said administrative hearing officer shall conduct hearings when requested either by the council or its designee, or by any citizen aggrieved by an administrative decision made by any city department authorized to make such decisions. Said hearing officer shall have the authority to hear evidence and subpoena witnesses on behalf of the city or said aggrieved citizen and shall generally conduct hearings in accordance with the requirements of due process as required by the United States Constitution, and the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(5)
Whenever from any cause the administrative hearing officer is unable to be in attendance, or if it should appear that the administrative hearing officer is disqualified in any case, it shall be the duty of the administrative hearing officer to appoint a hearing officer pro hac vice to preside over the hearing in place and instead of the administrative hearing officer, upon approval of the city council.
(6)
The administrative hearing officer shall serve for a one-year term beginning January 1 of every year. In addition thereto, the council may make interim appointments for the purpose of filling said position for a portion of a term. The salary of said hearing officer shall be as set by the council.
(Ord. No. 91-55, § 1, 1-7-92; Ord. No. 2015-06, § I—III, 4-7-15)
