CHAPTER 3-8. - NOISE CONTROL

Sec. 3-8-1. - Loud noises prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any load, unnecessary or unusual sound or noise which unreasonably annoys, disturbs or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city, and which is audible to a person of normal hearing ability more than one hundred (100) feet from the point of origin of this sound or noise.
(Ord. No. 99-33, § I, 6-1-99)
Sec. 3-8-2. - Unlawful noises designated.
The following are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Blowing horns excessively. The blowing or use of automobile horns or similar signaling devices upon motor vehicles upon the public streets, alleys or thoroughfares of the city in excess of those signals necessary for the preservation of safety is hereby prohibited.
(2)
Radios, phonographs, similar devices. The using of, operating of, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for any producing or reproducing of sound in a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with a louder volume than is reasonably necessary for the convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, building, structure or vehicle in which this machine or device is operated, and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of the set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the room, building, structure or vehicle in which it is locates shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Operation of radios, stereos, etc., from motor vehicle at levels audible at one hundred (100) feet.
a.
Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on a street or highway to operate or amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape player, or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle so that the sound is:
1.
Plainly audible at a distance of one hundred (100) feet or more from the motor vehicle;
2.
Louder than necessary for the convenient hearing by persons inside the vehicle in areas adjoining churches, schools, or hospitals.
b.
Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
1.
Any law enforcement motor vehicle equipped with any communication device necessary in the performance of law enforcement duties or to any emergency vehicle equipped with any communication device necessary in the performance of any emergency procedures.
2.
Motor vehicles used for business or political purposes, which in the normal course of conducting such business use sound-making devices.
c.
Definitions; standards. The definition of "plainly audible" and the standards regarding the measurement of sound by law enforcement personnel shall be as promulgated by the department of public safety, as required in O.C.G.A § 40-6-14(d).
(4)
Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using of, operating of, or permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure.
(5)
Yelling, shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any persons in the vicinity.
(6)
Noisy animals or birds. Anyone who keeps or maintains an animal or bird that unreasonably disturbs the comfort or repose of any person or persons because the animal or bird is emitting frequent or long continued sound or noise, and who continues to keep, maintain, or allow any animal or bird to so disturb the comfort or repose of any person or persons shall be deemed in violation of this section; provided that the person keeping or maintaining the animal has been first notified in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, by the complaining party that this animal or bird being kept by the addressee is unreasonably disturbing his or her comfort or repose. This section shall be liberally construed to accomplish the objective thereof, and the person making this written notification need not use the exact words of this section to the addressee so long as the notification sufficiently informs the addressee of the nature of the disturbing noise emitted by the animal or bird. Upon receipt of a certified letter notifying the person keeping or maintaining such animal or bird, said person shall be required to immediately comply with this section.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary or moving internal combustion engine or motor boat except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom. Such are not in any event to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any persons in the vicinity.
(8)
Schools, courts, place of worship, hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, place of worship or court while in use, or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the normal operation of that institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in those streets indicating a school, hospital or court is adjacent thereto.
(9)
Hawkers, peddlers, vendors. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(10)
Noise to attract attention. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show or sale.
(11)
The use of skateboards, roller skates, inline roller skates, roller blades or a bicycle in a residential district so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling or other type of residence. The use of any skateboards, roller skates, inline roller skates, roller blades or a bicycle in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) feet from any dwelling or other type residence shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. No. 99-33, § I, 6-1-99)
Sec. 3-8-3. - Exemptions.
(a)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any activity which would naturally cause a loud noise such as a parade, Fourth of July fireworks display, construction of a building or similar type functions or activities which are properly permitted by the proper official or officials of the city shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
It is also provided that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any government vehicle while engaged in necessary public business.
(2)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character.
(Ord. No. 99-33, § I, 6-1-99)
Sec. 3-8-4. - Penalty.
Any person found guilty of violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished as provided in section 1-1-7 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. No. 99-33, § I, 6-1-99)
