CHAPTER 3-9. - PUBLIC HEALTH

Sec. 3-9-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as City of Gainesville Public Health Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § I, 6-16-09)
Sec. 3-9-2. - Purpose.
This chapter is enacted to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and more specifically for the purpose of requiring the maintenance of property, sidewalks and rights-of-way to retain property values, protect the general environment and appearance of neighborhoods, residential complexes and commercial and industrial areas and ensure safe and sanitary conditions in the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § I, 6-16-09)
Sec. 3-9-3. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
Front yard means the yard extending across the front of the lot between the side yard and lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the main building or any projections thereof, other than the projections of uncovered steps, uncovered balconies and uncovered porches. If there is no building on the property, the entire property shall be deemed the front yard. The right-of-way is included in the definition of "front yard" for purposes of this chapter.
Litter means any organic or inorganic waste material, rubbish, refuse, garbage, trash, hulls, peelings, debris, grass, weeds, ashes, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, metal, plastic and glass containers, broken glass, dead animals or intentionally or unintentionally discarded materials of every kind and description.
Person means any natural person, corporation, partnership, authority created by statute, association or other entity or combination thereof.
Polluted water is defined for the purpose of this chapter, as water which contains bacterial growth, remains of garbage, refuse, debris, papers and any other foreign matter or material which constitutes an unhealthy or unsafe condition.
Rubbish means any wastepaper, cartons, boxes, wood, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, appliances, metal, cans, glass, packing material and similar material.
Right-of-way means that real property, titled in the city or held in perpetual easement for street-related purposes, lying between the edge of the paved or unpaved street and the adjoining property boundary with private property. The term shall encompass all areas adjoining the public street or roadway wherein utilities and sidewalks are located and maintained.
To place means to establish the presence on property of an object which:
(1)
Is capable of being moved or removed and which is not affixed to the real property, and
(2)
Is present on the property for a period of at least ten (10) consecutive days, whether or not the location of the item on the property is changed.
Wooded areas means those portions of lots consisting of a dense growth of trees, which exceed three (3) inches in diameter.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § I, 6-16-09)
Sec. 3-9-4. - Duty to maintain cleanliness of property.
modified
It is unlawful for the owner of any lot, parcel, or area of land within the city, or the agent of such owner, or tenant of an owner, or other occupant of the premises, to permit on such lot, parcel or area of land, to have, place or allow to be placed any of the following on such premises, including the front, side or rear yard, sidewalk or right-of-way:
(1)
Any accumulation of offensive matter or odor including, but not limited to, overgrown or dead or decayed trees, dead organic matter, rubbish, garbage, animal intestinal waste and urine, and toxic or otherwise hazardous liquids and substances and material.
(2)
Dead plant material piled such that it emits objectionable and foul odors or presents a haven for rodents, snakes, rats, mice or other vermin.
(3)
Any condition that would create or provide a harborage for mice, rats, snakes, rodents or other vermin.
(4)
Dead trees, shrubs or other plant materials which if they should fall, would present a safety hazard to adjacent public or private property;
(5)
Any vegetation which, because of its characteristics of growth, spreads onto adjacent property and cannot be controlled;
(6)
Grass, weeds or undergrowth that exceeds eight (8) inches or more on any lot on which a residential, institutional, commercial or industrial structure is built.
(7)
Grass, weeds or undergrowth that exceeds twelve (12) inches on any vacant or undeveloped lot located within a residential district.
(8)
Grass, weeds or undergrowth that exceeds twelve (12) inches on any lot or property other than those described in subsections (6) or (7) of this section.
Exception: For the purposes of this section, wooded areas as defined herein shall be exempt from the above requirements.
(9)
All clotheslines and other outdoor clothes drying equipment shall be placed and maintained in only the rear yard of a residence or other residential property. In no instance shall clothes, sheets, towels or other household materials be hung from any object other than a clothesline or other outdoor drying equipment. The placement or hanging of clothes, sheets, towels or other household materials on fences, cars, hand railings, decks, porches, playground or other similar objects shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(10)
A swimming pool, pond, stream, or other body of water which is abandoned, unattended, unfiltered, stagnant, or not otherwise maintained, resulting in the water becoming polluted.
(11)
It is unlawful to clean or maintain private property located in the city by blowing, raking or otherwise moving objects, debris, yard waste or other items onto adjoining property, the right-of-way or the street. All such objects, debris, yard waste or other items shall be properly bagged or containerized for removal by the owner/occupant or, in the case of collectible solid waste, for removal by the city or its designee.
(12)
Both the occupant and the owner of the premises shall be liable for compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and shall be responsible for violations thereof. Lease of property of an owner which purports to transfer responsibility for this provision shall be ineffective in shielding the owner for responsibility under this provision, and such owner shall remain liable along with the occupant of the leased premises.
Exception: For the purposes of all subsections of this section, with the exception of subsections (3) and (4), wooded areas as defined in this chapter shall be exempt from the above requirements.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § I, 6-16-09; Ord. No. 2018-16, §§ III, IV, 8-7-18)
Sec. 3-9-5. - Additional duties for nonresidential properties.
(a)
In addition to the obligations set forth above in this chapter, the proprietor, person in charge and owner of every non-residential property in the city are hereby required to keep the sidewalks and right-of-way abutting such property, business, driveways, yards and parking lots and areas clean at all times. In the case of shopping centers, the owner and person in charge of a center shall be responsible for keeping parking lots, rear areas, drives and connecting property that is under the same ownership or control clean of litter, trash, garbage, stray shopping carts and commercial or other wastes.
(b)
Inspection of lot, parcel or area of land. The city marshal, or such subordinate official as may be designated to act in his behalf, or code enforcement officer with twenty-four (24) hours prior written notice, may enter and inspect every lot, parcel or area of land to determine if same is being kept in a clean and neat condition free from weeds, untrimmed grass, litter, trash, deleterious or unhealthful growths, other noxious matter or debris of any kind as prescribed in subsection (a). Twenty-four-hour prior written notice shall be perfected either by tack and nail or by first class mail to the last known owner or agent of the lot subject to inspection. The term "enter and inspect" shall not include the following conduct:
(1)
Any observation of the property from any point not within the boundary lines of the property;
(2)
Any entry onto the property for the purpose of discussing the condition of the property with the owner or occupier of the property; and
(3)
Any entry onto the property for the purpose of serving a copy of any written notice or other official document upon any owner or occupier of the property.
Additionally, the 24-hour notice provided for in this subsection shall be deemed waived in the event that any owner or occupier of the property gives written consent to an inspection of the property.
(c)
Notice to destroy. Whenever it shall appear to the city marshal, his designee, or code enforcement officer that subsection (a) is being violated, he shall, in writing, notify the owner of any such lot, parcel or area of land within the city or the agent of such owner, to cut, destroy or remove any such weeds, untrimmed grass, litter, trash, deleterious or unhealthful growths, other noxious matter or other debris of any kind, found growing, lying or located on such owner's lot, parcel or area of land, or upon the sidewalk abutting same. Such notice may be served by registered or certified mail, addressed to the owner, or the agent of such owner, at his last known address or service of such notice may be perfected upon such owner or the agent of such owner as provided by O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq. Such notice shall notify the owner of his right to appeal the notice to destroy to the administrative hearing officer within five (5) working days of receipt of written notice of the decision of the city marshal, his designee or code enforcement officer.
(d)
Action upon non-compliance.
(1)
Any person who receives a written notice pursuant to subsection (c) shall have the right to appeal the decision of the city marshal, his designee, or code enforcement officer and shall be entitled to a hearing, pursuant to section 1-8-1.
(2)
Unless such hearing is requested within five (5) working days after receipt of the written notice, such person shall be presumed to have accepted summary process.
(3)
The administrative hearing officer may affirm or deny the decision of the city marshal or code enforcement officer.
a.
If the administrative hearing officer affirms the decision of the city marshal or code enforcement officer in issuing the notice pursuant to subsection (c), the owner of the property or agent shall have ten (10) days from the date of the decision of the administrative hearing officer in which to comply with the notice received pursuant to subsection (c).
b.
If the administrative hearing officer overrules the decision of the city marshal or code enforcement officer, the owner or agent will have no further duty as a result of the notice received pursuant to subsection (c).
(4)
If the owner or agent shall fail, neglect or refuse after being so notified to cut, destroy or remove such weeds, untrimmed grass, litter, trash, deleterious or unhealthful growth, other noxious matter or other debris of any kind growing, lying or located upon such owner's property or upon the sidewalk abutting same within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice provided for in subsection (c) or within ten (10) days after the date of such notice in the event same is returned to the city by the United States Postal Service because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or the agent of such owner, or within ten (10) days after the date of a decision by the administrative hearing officer affirming the decision of the city marshal or code enforcement officer, the city marshal or code enforcement officer may pay for the cutting, destroying or removal of such weeds, untrimmed grass, litter, trash, deleterious, unhealthy growth, other noxious matter or other debris of any kind or to order the removal by the city.
(e)
Charges.
(1)
When the city has effected the removal of such weeds, untrimmed grass, litter, trash deleterious or unhealthful growths, other noxious matter or other debris of any kind, or has paid for its removal, an amount provided in section 10-1-3 shall be charged to the owner of such property and such charge shall be due and payable by the owner within thirty (30) days.
(2)
Service of notice of such charge may be served by registered or certified mail, addressed to the owner or the agent of the owner, at his last known address or service of notice of such charge maybe perfected upon the owner or the agent of the owner as provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2, as amended. Upon nonpayment of such charge within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written notice of such charge, in the event same is returned to the city by the United States Postal Service because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or the agent of such owner, the clerk of the council may issue an execution against such owner's property or against the owner and shall deliver the same to the levying officer of the city or his deputy, who shall levy the same upon the property liable therefore and after advertisement, and other proceedings as in the case of sales for city taxes, the same shall be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder.
(3)
Such charge shall bear interest at the rate of one (1) percent per month in the event same is not paid in full on or before the date the bill upon such charge appears becomes delinquent.
(4)
Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(f)
Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this section, shall on conviction thereof, be punished as prescribed in section 1-1-7 of this Code.
(Ord. No. 2009-20, § I, 6-16-09)
