CHAPTER 1-6. - PERSONNEL[11]
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1-6-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2015-35, § I, adopted Nov. 17, 2015, repealed § 1-6-1 in its entirety. Former § 1-6-1 pertained to employment of relatives of council member, public official, employee and derived from Ord. No. 88-61, § I, adopted Oct. 4, 1988; and Ord. No. 90-59, § 1, adopted Nov. 20, 1990.
Sec. 1-6-2. - Civil actions, claims or judgments against city employees.
(a)
Defense of civil, etc., actions. As part of the terms of employment of the council members and of supervisors, administrators, employees, and other elected or appointed officials, the city will undertake to defend against the following actions that arise out of the performance of their duties or are in any way connected therewith: negligence, violation of contract rights, and violation of civil, constitutional, common law, or statutory rights. This section shall in no way authorize the city to furnish a defense to any person charged with a criminal offense involving theft, embezzlement, or other like crime with respect to the property or money of the city or in which the city has an interest. The city may expend state, federal, or local funds for such purposes, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, deposition costs, witness fees and compensation, and all other like costs, expenses, and fees.
(b)
Payment of claims or judgments. The city may pay part or all of any claim or civil judgment rendered against any person whose defense the city is authorized to undertake under subsection (a) above. Any such disbursement shall be deemed to be for public purposes and may be paid from state, federal, or local funds. No attempt shall be made at the trial of any action brought against a person covered under this section to suggest the fact that the city will be responsible for any judgment therein.
(Code 1958, § 2-06)
Sec. 1-6-3. - Continuance of certain benefits for certain officials.
(a)
In the event a council member, whose term begins prior to December 31, 2015, resigns from employment or fails to be reelected or appointed or does not seek reelection or appointment to office, and who at the time that person leaves office or employment has completed six (6) or more years of elected official service with the city, shall be entitled to continue full coverage and participation, including coverage for his spouse and dependent children, in the city health benefit plan upon the payment of the monthly cost of such coverage as may be provided by the trustees.
(b)
In the event a council member, whose term begins January 1, 2016 or later, resigns from employment or fails to be reelected or appointed or does not seek reelection or appointment to office, and who at the time that person leaves office or employment has completed sixteen (16) or more years of service with the city, shall be eligible to retain insurance coverage and participation in accordance with city retiree insurance guidelines for retirees as offered by the city at such time.
(c)
Any city attorney whose appointment ends on or prior to December 31, 2015, and who at the time of leaving employment has completed six (6) or more years of service with the city, shall be entitled to continue full coverage and participation, including coverage for his spouse and dependent children, in the city health benefit plan upon the payment of the monthly cost of such coverage as may be provided by the trustees.
(d)
At the time of death of elected or appointed persons referred to in subsections (a) and (c), any spouse or dependent child or children of such elected or appointed person included in the coverage of the city health benefit plan shall be entitled to continue such coverage upon payment of the monthly cost of such coverage as may be provided by the trustees. Coverage under the city health benefit plan under this section shall cease for the covered spouse upon the remarriage of the spouse and shall cease for the covered dependent child or children as may be provided by the trustees.
(e)
This section shall not affect the rights otherwise available under the city health benefit plan to retired employees and their spouses and dependents.
(Ord. No. 89-45, § I, 8-1-89; Ord. No. 2015-35, § II, 11-17-15)
Sec. 1-6-4. - Compensation; expenses allowance; reimbursement.
(a)
Compensation.
(1)
Each member of the council shall receive a salary of four hundred dollars ($400.00) per month, and the mayor shall receive five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month.
(2)
For attending each scheduled, special, called or a meeting officially representing the city council, the mayor and each council member shall receive an additional compensation of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per diem, payable monthly, not to exceed twelve (12) meetings per month.
(b)
Expense allowance. To help defray the day-to-day costs necessary to properly carry out their duties outside of regular meetings, the five (5) council members shall receive an expense allowance of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per month and the mayor shall receive an expense allowance of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month.
(c)
Reimbursement. In addition to other compensation and allowances, each council member shall be reimbursed from city funds for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier, the legal mileage rate from his residence for use of a personal automobile, and the actual costs of lodging, meals and sundry items incurred while attending to city matters outside of Hall County, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 2013-27, § I, 12-27-13; Ord. No. HR-2015-01, § I, 6-16-15)
Secs. 1-6-5—1-6-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - SOCIAL SECURITY[12]

Sec. 1-6-21. - System established.
It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to extend at the earliest date possible, under the agreement entered into by the state and the federal security administrator, to the employees and officials thereof, and its instrumentalities not excluded by law or by this chapter, the benefits of the system of old age and survivor's insurance as authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto, including Public Law 734 of the 81st Congress, and as provided for in Act No. 295, Georgia Laws 1951, approved February 21, 1951. In pursuance of such policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1958, § 9-1)
State Law reference— Establishment of social security coverage for political subdivision, OCGA § 47-18-41.
Sec. 1-6-22. - Authorization for execution of agreement between city and state agency.
The mayor, or other chief executive officer, of the city, is hereby authorized and directed to execute all necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, referred to in this article as the state agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as provided for in section 1-6-21.
(Code 1958, § 9-2)
Sec. 1-6-23. - Salary withholdings authorized; payment to state agency.
Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees and officials for the purpose provided in section 1-6-21 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency.
(Code 1958, § 9-3)
Sec. 1-6-24. - Appropriations from city funds; payment to state agency.
There shall be appropriated from the general fund such amounts at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for employers' contributions, administrative expenses, and a guaranty fund to assure that the state will not incur any debt or loss as a result of the agreement referred to in section 1-6-22. Such funds shall be paid over to the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with regulations established by such agency.
(Code 1958, § 9-4)
Sec. 1-6-25. - Reports and records required of city.
The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1958, § 9-5)
Sec. 1-6-26. - Employees previously covered or authorized to be covered by other retirement systems.
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered, or authorized to be covered, by any other ordinance or law creating any retirement system for any employee or official of the city or its instrumentalities.
(Code 1958, § 9-6)
Sec. 1-6-27. - Employees not authorized to be covered.
There is hereby excluded from this article any authority to make any agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official not authorized to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(Code 1958, § 9-7)
Secs. 1-6-28—1-6-49. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - PERSONNEL MERIT SYSTEM[13]

Sec. 1-6-50. - General purpose.
The general purpose of this article is to establish a merit personnel administration for the city that provides for the recruitment, selection, development, and retention of an effective workforce of capable, diligent, and honest employees. The merit system shall include policies for employee hiring and advancement, training, career development and safety, position classification and compensation administration, effective utilization of personnel and employee performance evaluation, employee relations and the disposition of employee grievances, discipline, discharge and related activities. It shall be the purpose of this article to establish a merit system in which all personnel matters shall be determined solely on the basis of merit and qualifications, without regard to race, color, sex, age, national origin, disability or political affiliation.
(Ord. No. 94-43, § I, 10-18-94; Ord. No. 2012-12, § I, 6-19-12)
Sec. 1-6-51. - Merit personnel administration established; employee rules and regulations.
The city government employee policies and procedures shall be adopted by resolution of the city council upon adoption and recommendation of the city manager. The city government employee policies and procedures currently in effect on file with human resources are hereby adopted and made a part of this section. Any future amendments to the city government employee policies and procedures shall be adopted by resolution of the city council upon recommendation of the city manager, which amended policies and procedures shall be filed in the human resources office and become a part of the employee rules and regulations.
(Ord. No. 94-43, § I, 10-18-94; Ord. No. 2012-12, § II, 6-19-12)
Secs. 1-6-52—1-6-74. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 4. - RETIREMENT SYSTEM[14]

Sec. 1-6-75. - Defined benefit retirement system—Generally.
The defined benefit retirement plan A for certain eligible employees of the city whom the city has elected to exclude from participation in the federal Social Security program as provided in section 3.60 of the Charter is continued. The provisions of retirement plan A, as previously contained in the provisions of the Charter, has been amended and restated in a separate plan document and on file with the secretary of the city council in the secretary's office. Retirement plan A, as so amended and restated, is hereby adopted and made a part of this section and any future amendment to retirement plan A shall be adopted by resolution of the city council and filed in the office of the secretary of the city council.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § I, 6-21-94)
Sec. 1-6-76. - Same—For certain employees.
(a)
The defined benefit plan B for certain employees of the city who participate in the federal Social Security program which provides benefits to supplement those benefits provided under Social Security and also provides benefits for elected and appointed officials of the governing authority as provided in section 3.61 of the Charter is adopted. The provisions of retirement plan B on file with the secretary of the city council in the secretary's office are hereby adopted and made a part of this section and any future amendment to retirement plan B shall be adopted by resolution of the city council and filed in the office of the secretary of the city council.
(b)
The defined contribution retirement system established and maintained by the City of Gainesville Parks and Recreation Agency for its employees known and referred to as retirement plan "C" is converted, transferred and merged into defined benefit retirement system retirement plan B, as described in subparagraph (a) above, effective June 30, 2003.
(c)
On or before June 20, 2003, each employee of the parks and recreation agency covered by retirement Plan C shall elect in writing one of the rollover options set out in the City of Gainesville Parks and Recreation Money Purchase Plan 204(h) Notice.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § I, 6-21-94; Ord. No. 2003-28, § I, 6-3-03)
Sec. 1-6-77. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2003-28, § II, adopted June 3, 2003, repealed former § 1-6-77 of the Code, which pertained to defined contribution retirement system for the parks and recreation department and derived from Ord. No. 94-28, § I, adopted June 21, 1994.
Sec. 1-6-78. - Defined contribution retirement system—For certain supervisory personnel and appointed officials.
The defined contribution retirement plan D established and maintained by the city for certain supervisory personnel and appointed officials as provided in section 3.63 of the Charter is continued. Retirement plan D as currently adopted and in force and on file with the secretary of the city council in the secretary's office is hereby adopted and made a part of this section and any future amendment to retirement plan D shall be adopted by resolution of the city council and filed in the office of the secretary of the city council.
(Ord. No. 94-28, § I, 6-21-94)
