ARTICLE 24. - POWERS AND DUTIES OF VARIOUS OFFICIALS CONCERNING THIS APPENDIX

Section 2401. - Purpose.
This article formalizes the powers and duties of the zoning administrator, the planning and zoning commission, the board of commissioners, and other officials as may be appropriate where this appendix is concerned. It should also provide a convenient list of services provided by each official to aid in complying with the requirements of this appendix.
Section 2402. - Powers and duties of the zoning administrator.
The zoning administrator, or his designee has the power and duty to provide the following services related to this appendix:
(1)
Provide initial information about this appendix upon request.
(2)
Advise how to contact members of the planning and zoning commission, the board of commissioners, or other officials as may be appropriate for services provided by those bodies or officials.
(3)
Maintain official map on public display.
(4)
Determine in which zoning district a parcel of land lies.
(5)
Issue certificates of occupancy under procedures outlined in Section 409 of this appendix.
(6)
Offer practical suggestions on how to comply with the requirements of this appendix.
(7)
Maintain complete records concerning this appendix and related matters, and make such records available to the public upon request.
(8)
Supervise all professional and clerical personnel employed in connection with the performance of the functions of the zoning administrator.
(9)
Serve as liaison to the planning and zoning commission and the board of commissioners.
(10)
Issue certificates of zoning compliance for all permitted uses as well as for variances or other applicable procedures which are granted by the planning and zoning commission and the board of commissioners.
(11)
Collect data and keep informed as to the best zoning practices, in order that he may be qualified to make recommendations to the planning and zoning commission and the board of commissioners concerning amendments to this appendix.
(12)
Research and make reference to the zoning ordinance in connection with each and every application received for variance or other applicable procedures and to make written recommendations to the planning and zoning commission on each such application as to whether:
a.
The granting of such variance or other applicable procedures would result in an encroachment on existing land uses or zoning districts already established on adjoining or nearby neighborhood properties protected by the zoning ordinance from such adverse impact.
b.
Sufficient authority exists in the zoning ordinance to allow the planning and zoning commission to grant the variance or other applicable procedures.
(13)
Maintain all written recommendations to other officials of the county in the application file to which each pertains.
(14)
Set offstreet parking requirements for certain land uses as necessary, according to procedures contained in the county standard for offstreet parking and service facilities (Appendix G).
Section 2403. - Powers and duties of the building official.
The building official has the power and duty to provide the following services related to this appendix:
(1)
Issue, and when necessary revoke, building permits under the procedures outlined in Section 408 of this appendix.
(2)
Maintain complete records concerning building permits, and make such records available to the public upon request.
(3)
Supervise all professional and clerical personnel employed in connection with the performance of the functions of the building official.
Section 2404. - Powers and duties of the planning and zoning commission.
Appendix B details the establishment of the county planning and zoning commission. The planning and zoning commission has the power and duty to provide the following services related to this appendix:
(1)
Advise the board of commissioners on applications for amendment to this appendix by examining amendment applications and providing written recommendations to the board of commissioners as specified in Section 414.
(2)
Dispense general information about this appendix to the public upon request.
(3)
Propose amendments to this appendix.
(4)
Advise the board of commissioners on matters of zoning as it may deem appropriate.
(5)
Authorize variances according to procedures specified in Section 411.
Section 2405. - Powers and duties of the board of commissioners.
The board of commissioners have the power and duty to provide the following services related to this appendix:
(1)
Renders official decisions on applications for conditional uses or amendments to this appendix after the planning and zoning commission has reviewed and made recommendations on the conditional uses or amendments as specified in Sections 413 and 414.
(2)
Propose amendments to this appendix.
(3)
Hear appeals to the decisions of the planning and zoning commission and render official decisions on them according to procedures specified in Section 410.
(4)
Any other powers and duties as may be conferred by this appendix or any other ordinances or laws.
