Chapter 9 - HUMAN RELATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 9-1—9-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - THOMSON-McDUFFIE COUNTY HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Boards, commissions and committees, § 2-101 et seq.

Sec. 9-26. - Establishment.
There is hereby created a human relations commission for the city and the county, to be called the "Thomson-McDuffie County Human Relations Commission."
(Ord. No. 453, § 1, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-27. - Composition.
The commission shall be composed of 12 members with equal representation from all ethnic segments of the city and county, ten of which shall be bona fide adult residents of the city and/or county, and two of which shall be student residents of the city and/or county, with all members appointed by the City Council of Thomson and the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County, with the advice of the human relations commission. Its membership shall represent a cross section of the community from the following interests or groups: industry, government, health, housing, labor, commerce, agriculture, law enforcement, ministry, etc. The chairman of the commission shall not vote unless it is necessary to break a tie vote. The mayor of the city and the chairman of the board of county commissioners or their designees, shall be ex-officio nonvoting members of the commission.
(Ord. No. 453, § 2, 1-11-90; Ord. No. 505, § 2, 2-10-00)
Sec. 9-28. - Terms of office.
Initial appointments to the human relations commission shall be for staggered terms. Following the expiration of the initial terms of office, all other appointments shall be for a period of four years, except in the event of death or resignation of any member, when the successor shall be appointed to serve for the unexpired term for which such member has been appointed, and provided the ethnic balance is maintained. All members shall continue in office until their successors shall have been appointed and there shall be no limit to terms of office. Any student member shall serve a term to expire upon graduation from high school.
(Ord. No. 453, § 3, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-29. - Quorum.
Seven members of said commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. No. 453, § 11, 1-11-90; Ord. No. 505, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 9-30. - Officers.
The human relations commission shall elect a chairman and such other officers as it deems necessary from its members. Such officers shall serve in their respective offices for a term of one year or until their successors shall be appointed. They may be reelected.
(Ord. No. 453, § 4, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-31. - Compensation.
All members of the human relations commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. No. 453, § 5, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-32. - Executive directors and staff.
The appointment of the executive directors of the commission shall be made by the City Council of Thomson and the Board of Commissioners of McDuffie County, with the advice of the human relations commission. The executive directors shall be persons with training and/or experience in intergroup and interracial relations. Initially this position shall be in total part-time, 20 hours per week until a greater time commitment is warranted. He shall coordinate the activities of the commission and staff. He may, with the approval of the commission and within the budget of the commission, employ such staff as needed. The compensation, if any, of the executive directors and other staff shall be as provided, in the budget approved by the city council and board of county commissioners; provided, however, that the termination of the executive director or the employment of new executive director shall receive the concurrence of the city council and the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. No. 453, § 6, 1-11-90; Ord. No. 505, § 3, 2-10-00)
Sec. 9-33. - Office space and facilities.
The city council and the board of county commissioners are authorized to secure adequate office space and facilities for the commission.
(Ord. No. 453, § 7, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-34. - Budget and finance.
The human relations commission shall annually adopt the budget to be submitted for approval to the city council and the board of county commissioners. The commission shall be authorized to contract with the state and federal agencies, but such contracts must first be approved by the city council and county commission. All expenditures of the commission shall be limited to those as specified by the budget.
(Ord. No. 453, § 8, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-35. - Inspection and audit of financial records.
The financial records of the human relations commission shall be audited annually by a qualified external auditor. Such audit, when completed, shall be submitted to the commission for approval and a copy shall be provided to the internal auditor of the city council and the board of county commissioners. All financial records of the commission shall be open for inspection by the county grand jury.
(Ord. No. 453, § 9, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-36. - Meetings.
The human relations commission shall set forth the time, place, and frequency of its meetings to effectuate the purpose of this article and such meetings shall be open to the public. The commission reserves the right to deliberation in closed session, consistent with state law.
(Ord. No. 453, § 10, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-37. - Rules and by-laws.
The human relations commission shall adopt such rules as it deems expedient for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. No. 453, § 12, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-38. - Reports.
The human relations commission shall report in writing its activities to the city council and the board of county commissioners annually and make such other reports from time to time, or after the completion of any hearing as it may determine necessary, setting forth the facts found by it and its recommendations in the furtherance of its objectives.
(Ord. No. 453, § 13, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-39. - Duties and powers.
It shall be the duty of the human relations commission to:
(1)
Seek fair and equal treatment under the law for all citizens.
(2)
Attempt to act as conciliator in controversies involving human relations.
(3)
Promote mutual understanding, tolerance, and respect among all economic, racial, religious and nationality groups and work to discourage and prevent discriminatory practices against any such groups.
(4)
Study the problems of group relationships and promote amiable relations among racial and cultural groups and strive to eliminate whatever sources of interracial friction may exist.
(5)
Take appropriate steps by conference and education to deal with conditions that strain relationships.
(6)
Aid in the coordination of the activities of private organizations concerned with these relationships.
(7)
Make such investigations, studies, and surveys; and conduct such public hearings and make such recommendations to the city council and the board of county commissioners as in its judgment will effectuate the policy of this article and as are necessary for the performance of its duties.
(8)
Maintain contacts with groups concerned with interracial and intercultural understanding.
(9)
Serve as a source of accurate and reliable data on the problems in the above mentioned fields.
(10)
Work to remove inequalities, if any, which pertain to minority groups' status such as on problems of housing, recreation, education, law enforcement, employment, vocational guidance and related matters.
(11)
Investigate and study complaints, problems and specific situations arising between groups or individuals which result or may result in tensions, discrimination or prejudice in the county on account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap or age.
(12)
Receive and investigate complaints alleging discrimination in employment and public accommodations because of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, handicap or age.
(13)
Endeavor by education to induce public and private employers labor and professional organizations and employment agencies to institute nondiscriminatory practices in employment, promotion, wages, working conditions, layoffs and job opportunities.
(14)
Endeavor by education to engender respect for law and order, lawful authority and amenability to law enforcement; to desire to distinguish between peaceful dissent and illegal disorder and violence; and a sense of individual responsibility and respect for each other without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or age.
(15)
Endeavor by education to increase racial pride without resentment toward other races, and to point out that the manifestations of racial hatred and acts of lawlessness directed toward other races generate and intensify counteracting racial prejudice and retaliatory racial discrimination.
(16)
Disseminate information that no group or individual is entitled to special privileges, treatment, protection or immunity by reason of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, social or economic condition, handicap or age, but that all have equal responsibility to strive for self-advancement and improvement, civic good and community welfare and best interests.
(17)
Secure the furnishings of equal services to all residents, and where the need is greater in meeting that need with additional services.
(18)
Train city and county employees to use methods of dealing with intergroup relations which develop respect for equal rights and which result in equal treatment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or handicap.
(19)
Assist in improving the equality of opportunity for employment and advancement in the city and county government.
(20)
Adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind suitable rules and procedures to carry out the provisions of this article.
(21)
Recommend to the city council and the board of county commissioners such additional ordinances as will aid in carrying out the purpose of this article.
(22)
Advise, consult with, and make recommendations to the city council and the board of county commissioners, agencies and officials, for the betterment of intergroup relationships and ways and means of discouraging and combatting prejudice, intolerance and bigotry in all groups and in their relations with one another.
(23)
Discover practices and policies calculated to create conflicts, tensions, unfair or unjust discrimination which would be deemed detrimental to the community's best interests and recommend ways and means for their elimination.
(24)
Inform and warn the public of false and sinister propaganda subversive to public interest and search out and reveal sources of inflammatory, lewd, vulgar and profane racial propaganda.
(Ord. No. 453, § 14, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-40. - Procedures.
(a)
Any person alleging a practice contrary to this article must file a written complaint with the human relations commission or its designated representative no later than 180 days after the alleged practice occurred.
(b)
Upon receipt of a complaint, the commission shall be certain that all avenues of reconciliation have been expired at the source of the conflict. If warranted, it shall serve a copy of the complaint on the respondent within ten days of receipt thereof and shall conduct an investigation of the complaint.
(c)
If the commission determines after such investigation that there is reasonable cause to believe the charge is true, the commission shall endeavor to eliminate any such alleged practice by informal and voluntary methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion. During such informal endeavors, the commission may seek from the respondent such relief as may be appropriate.
(d)
All investigations, conferences and negotiations for conciliation pursuant to this article shall be confidential. Further, at no time shall the results of any conciliation be made public without the expressed written consent of the parties involved.
(e)
If within ten days after the commission has determined that conciliation efforts have failed, it shall so notify the parties in writing, and the respondent may request a hearing before the commission within ten days of the receipt of such notice.
(1)
If the commission determines that the complaint as alleged is not true, it shall dismiss the complaint and notify the parties in writing of such determination. Within ten days of receipt of such notice of dismissal, the complainant may request a hearing from the commission.
(2)
A request for a hearing shall be granted expeditiously.
(3)
No hearing may be had from a finding and determination of a lack of jurisdiction.
(4)
At such hearing, the commission may affirm or set aside its findings as set forth in subsection (c) of this section, in whole or in part.
(f)
If the commission determines after a hearing that any respondent has committed an unlawful act prohibited by this article, and the respondent refuses to comply with an order of the commission within 60 days after notification of such final disposition, or if the respondent fails to request a hearing before the commission within ten days after receipt of notice of failure of conciliation, the commission may refer the complainant to EEOC or other agency for appropriate legal action.
(Ord. No. 453, § 16, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-41. - Exemptions.
This article shall not apply to religious corporations, religious associations, religious educational institutions or religious societies with respect to the employment of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporations, associations, educational institutions or societies of its activities.
(Ord. No. 453, § 17, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-42. - Cooperation.
The human relations commission shall invite and enlist the cooperation of all ethnic, racial, religious groups and community organizations in carrying on its work and act as a coordinating agency among them and such other groups in the establishment and maintenance of education programs with a view to bringing about better intergroup and interracial relationships necessary or desirable to carry out specific programs designed to lessen the tensions or improve understanding. The commission shall also cooperate with the mayor, city council, all other city agencies, the board chairman, board of county commissioners, all other county agencies, all state and federal agencies, citizens, citizens' organizations, the board of education, parochial and private schools in formulating and developing courses in education to stimulate the interest of the entire population in the improvement of services wherever such cooperation is appropriate in effectuating the purposes of this article and in accomplishing the objectives of the commission to promote better human relations.
(Ord. No. 453, § 18, 1-11-90)
Sec. 9-43. - Legal services.
Legal representation, advice and review of contracts and other records shall be provided by the city and the county attorneys. Obtaining legal representation other than from the city or county attorney shall require the written approval of the city council and board of commissioners.
(Ord. No. 453, § 19, 1-11-90)
