ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 21-1. - Damage to, tampering with apparatus.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally and without authority to injure or destroy any meter, pipe, conduit, wire, line, post, lamp or other apparatus belonging to a company, or to the city, engaged in the manufacture or sale of electricity, gas, water, telephone or other public services, or intentionally and without authority to prevent a meter from properly registering the quantity of such service supplied, or in any way to interfere with the proper action of such company or the city intentionally to divert any services of such company or the city or otherwise intentionally and without authority to use or cause to be used, without the consent of such company or the city, any service manufactured, sold, or distributed by such company or the city.
(b)
Where there is no evidence to the contrary, the person performing any of the illegal acts referred to in subsection (a) of this section and/or the person who with knowledge of such violation receives the benefit of such service without proper charge as a result of such improper action shall be presumed to be responsible for such acts of tampering or diversion.
(c)
Violators of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and costs or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 12 months, or by any one or more of these punishments, subject to all limitation contained in the charter of the city.
(Ord. No. 348, §§ 1, 2, 5-13-76; Ord. No. 564 , 7-6-16)
Sec. 21-2. - Exemption from state law regarding self-inspection of certain water and sewer lines.
modified
Pursuant to Section 3 of Act No. 1046 enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Georgia during the 1996 Session of the legislature and signed by the Governor on April 25, 1996, does hereby exempt the City of Thomson, Georgia from the provisions of said Act codified as O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26(d).
(Ord. No. 491, 7-11-96)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 491, adopted July 11, 1996, has been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as § 21-2.
Sec. 21-3. - Rate policy for a schedule of water and sewerage use and taps.
(a)
Rates for all water, sewer, sprinklers, penalties, deposits and tapping fees for water and sewer shall be recommended by the Thomson-McDuffie County Water-Sewer Commission and approved by city and county commissioners by resolution. Rate adjustments shall be made on an as needed basis.
(b)
Persons desiring to move or demolish any building which has water or sewerage connections shall be required to have said lines stubbed or plugged at the property line, and such person shall give 24 hours' notice to the city clerk of his intention to move or demolish said buildings; and shall pay the current inspection fee then and there to cover the cost of an inspection by an authorized employee of the city to see that said lines are stubbed. Where any property owner has a building destroyed by fire or other cause, said owner shall have ten days in which to stub and open sewer or water pipes.
(c)
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this section shall be punished as provided by existing ordinance.
(Ord. No. 495, § 2, 11-13-97)
Secs. 21-4—21-25. - Reserved.
