ARTICLE IV. - NATURAL GAS[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. 481, adopted Dec. 8, 1994, repealed the provisions of former Art. IV, §§ 21-171—21-179, relative to natural gas systems, which derived from Ord. No. 452, §§ I—VII, adopted Jan. 11, 1990. Said Ord. No. 481 enacted new provisions relative to similar subject matter which has been included herein at the discretion of the editor as a new Art. IV, §§ 21-171—21-177.

Sec. 21-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Appliances shall mean all stoves, heaters, hot water tanks, conversion units and any other devices in which natural gas is used.
Customer shall mean any person, firm or corporation buying gas from the city.
Customer's inlet shall mean the location of the pipe at the customer's premises where gas is delivered to the customer.
Gas system shall mean the transmission line from the Southern Natural Line or other supply lines to the city border stations and the distribution mains, together with all service lines, valves, meters, cocks, regulating equipment and other appurtenances necessary to distribute gas to the customers.
House piping shall mean the piping in or around the house or building of the customer.
Licensee shall mean any person, firm or corporation holding an appropriate license to install house piping and other appliances.
Main shall mean a line, part of the distribution system, that transports gas.
Service line shall mean the line from the main to the customer's inlet.
Specifications shall mean the standard specifications for the construction of natural gas systems shall be complied with unless other procedures, methods or specifications are specified in a city ordinance or the operating instructions.
(Ord. No. 481, 12-8-94)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 21-172. - Scope of service.
(a)
Every person, firm or corporation who can be served by the city at a profit will be served natural gas under the city's rules, regulations and tariffs. The size of the service and appurtenances used to serve each customer shall be such that they will render efficient service to the customer.
(b)
Prospective customers desiring gas service where the city has an existing main will be furnished free of charge 100 feet of service line and the necessary fittings, valves, meter and regulator. In the event the customer's inlet is over 100 feet from the city's main, a charge for the cost of the additional pipe will be made by the city for that amount of the service line exceeding 100 feet.
(c)
Each prospective customer must sign up with the city for the service the customer desires. Each prospective customer must obtain for the city an easement over the property where the service will be installed, permitting the city to use this property to lay the gas line service and permitting the city ingress and egress to the property for purposes necessary for the operation thereof.
(d)
Each prospective customer must make a deposit in an amount set by the mayor and council from time to time with the city at the time of signing an application for service. Any deposit made by the customer shall be refunded to the customer at the time service to said customer is discontinued, provided the customer has paid all amounts due the city.
(Ord. No. 481, § I, 12-8-94)
Sec. 21-173. - Rates and billing.
(a)
The city has two primary categories for rates and billing. These are:
(1)
Residential.
(2)
Interruptable.
(b)
The mayor and council shall establish the rates and subsequent billing for the above categories based on fluctuations (up or down) in gas operating costs without the requirement to change this article.
(c)
Meters shall be read and bills to customers for gas service shall be mailed out on such day or days of each month as may be determined as desirable and the amount due as shown by said bill shall be payable ten days from date thereof, and if not paid within said ten-day period a penalty of ten percent of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected. If the amount of the bill, including the penalty, is not then paid within the next ten days the gas service shall, without any further grace period, be disconnected. The deposit so made shall be used and applied against the amount owed by the customer and any balance shall be returned to the customer. The full amount of any deposit held by the city will be returned to the customer only in the event gas service is disconnected and the customer's bill, including the disconnect charge, has been paid in full. Should such customer thereafter wish to be reconnected to the gas system the deposit herein above provided for will be required before reconnection.
(d)
Any customer who desires to have his service temporarily disconnected for any reason must pay the current disconnect fee before services are restored.
(Ord. No. 481, § II, 12-8-94)
Sec. 21-174. - Inspections, tests, etc.
modified
(a)
The city is authorized and empowered to inspect the installation, construction or reconstruction of all house piping and fittings that will transport natural gas. All installation, construction or reconstruction shall comply with the Southern Building Code Congress International Standard Gas Code which has been adopted by the city.
(b)
Every licensee shall test every installation by air with a mercury gauge in a manner satisfactory to the gas department. This test shall include all house piping and appurtenances up to and including the shutoff cock of the appliance. The gas department may witness such test and when test is satisfactory, sign a certificate that such test has been made at a certain time and for a certain person at a certain location and for a certain number of outlets. Such certificate shall be filed in the office of the city before any gas is turned into this house pipe.
(c)
An inspection fee may be charged by the city to the licensee for each house pipe inspection made and certificate issued. In the event the gas department finds the work done by the licensee unsatisfactory he shall so advise the licensee. The licensee shall then correct any improper work. Another inspection shall then be made for which the current fee will be charged. If the work is not satisfactory on the second inspection, the work will be condemned and the license of the licensee may be revoked.
(d)
In the event any test indicates a leak, soapsuds at each fitting or connection shall be used to find the leak at which time the leakage shall be corrected.
(e)
No gas shall be turned into a service or house piping until such service or house piping is tested and proved to be gas tight.
(f)
As gas is turned into a service or house piping the property owner or occupant shall be responsible for carefully bleeding all air in the line through the appliance burners or through the dead end of a pipe run. No air shall remain in any part of the piping, however small, at the time the piping starts serving gas.
(g)
Obstruction to any gas meter is prohibited. It is the responsibility of the owner to remove such obstruction to their gas meter that would hinder our meter readers from reading your meter. Failure to do so will result in a fine or removal of said meter.
(Ord. No. 481, § III, 12-8-94; Ord. No. 570 , 12-12-19)
Sec. 21-175. - License for installation.
No piping or appliance which uses natural gas from the mains and service of the gas system shall be installed by any person unless such person shall be licensed by the State of Georgia to do such work.
(Ord. No. 481, § IV, 12-8-94)
Sec. 21-176. - Penalty for violation.
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this article shall be punished in accordance with section 1-14 of the City of Thomson Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 481, § V, 12-8-94)
Sec. 21-177. - Repealer.
Ordinances 242, 385, 452 and Article IV, Natural Gas, Sections 21-171 through 21-179 of Chapter 21, Utilities, of Ordinance 471 are hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. 481, § VI, 12-8-94)
Sec. 21-178. - Gas appliance rebates.
Customers who install certain gas appliances for connection to the city's natural gas line shall be entitled to rebates in an amount to be determined by the mayor and council. The rebates may be issued for but not limited to:
(a)
Water heater;
(b)
Gas clothes dryer;
(c)
Gas range;
(d)
Gas logs;
(e)
Gas lights;
(f)
Gas cooling;
(g)
Combination gas furnace/space heater with water heater;
(h)
Such other appliances or combinations as determined by mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 488, § 1, 12-14-95)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 488, § 1, adopted Dec. 14, 1995, has been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as § 21-178.
Sec. 21-179. - Tap fee surcharge for dual fuel heat pumps.
There shall be a tap fee surcharge and ready to service fee for a customer who installs a dual fuel heat pump. The amount of these fees shall be determined from time to time by the mayor and council. A dual fuel heat pump is an electric heat pump which uses a natural gas fired furnace to provide backup heat. A customer who has installed a dual fuel heat pump shall pay a $6.00 per month ready to service fee in addition to all other applicable charges.
(Ord. No. 488, § 2, 12-14-95)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 488, § 2, adopted Dec. 14, 1995, has been codified herein at the discretion of the editor as § 21-179.
Secs. 21-180—21-200. - Reserved.
