Chapter 16 - LICENSES, TAXATION AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 16-1. - Due dates for real and personal property taxes.
The due dates for all real and personal property taxes payable to the city under city Charter sections 4.08 and 4.09 shall be the same due dates as the due dates for similar taxes payable to the county.
(Ord. No. 11, § 2, 6-30-1969)
Sec. 16-2. - Insurance license fees.
(a)
There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount determined from time to time by the city council. For each separate business location in excess of one not covered by subsection (b) of this section which is operating on behalf of insurers within the city there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council. For the purpose of this article, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(b)
For each separate business location not otherwise subject to a license fee hereunder, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing, and in connection with such loans or sales, offers, solicits or takes applications for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, said insurer shall pay an additional license fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council, per location, for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter.
(c)
There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section, in the amount determined from time to time by the city council, for each location within the city.
(d)
There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual tax, based solely upon gross direct premiums, upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the city, in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fee imposed by subsection (a) of this section. The tax imposed shall not apply to annuity considerations.
(e)
There is hereby levied for the year 1985 and for each year thereafter an annual tax upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the city, in an amount equal to 2½ percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2(a).
(f)
License fees imposed in subsections (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be due and payable on October 15, 1985, and on October 15 of each subsequent year.
(Ord. No. 109, §§ 1—6, 12-7-1984)
State Law reference— Insurance license fees and taxes, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8 et seq.
Secs. 16-3—16-22. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SALES AND USE TAX

Sec. 16-23. - Local sales and use tax.
(a)
There is hereby levied in the city a local sales and use tax.
(b)
The rate of said sales and use tax shall be one percent.
(Ord. No. 84, §§ 1, 2, 3-27-1979)
Sec. 16-24. - Joint city-county sales and use tax.
(a)
There is hereby levied in the city a local sales and use tax under the authority of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-82.
(b)
The rate of said sales and use tax shall be one percent.
(Ord. No. 87, §§ 1, 2, 12-20-1979)
Secs. 16-25—16-53. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE FEE

Sec. 16-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
City means the City of Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
Council means the mayor and councilmembers of the City of Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
Motor vehicle means passenger automobiles, trucks, vans, and any other motor-driven vehicle.
Nonresident motorist means any person who is not a resident but who nevertheless travels through the city and makes use of the city streets on not less than ten days in any calendar month or not less than 30 days in any 12-month period.
Resident means any person who resides within the city limits for a period of time longer than 30 days.
(Ord. No. 88, § 1, 5-15-1980)
Sec. 16-55. - Policy.
It is declared to be in the public interest, welfare and safety of the citizens of the city that certain motor vehicles driven within the city are subject to licensing under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 88, § 2, 5-15-1980)
Sec. 16-56. - Applicability of article.
The provisions of this article shall be applicable to any motor vehicle owned, leased, or used by a resident of the city and operated within the city. In addition, the provisions of this article shall be applicable to motor vehicles owned, leased or used by nonresident motorists who elect to purchase license decals in accordance with section 16-58.
(Ord. No. 88, § 3, 5-15-1980)
Sec. 16-57. - License and license fee.
(a)
There is hereby levied an annual license fee in the amount determined from time to time by the city council for each motor vehicle operated within the city by a resident; provided, however, that such fee shall be in the amount determined from time to time by the city council if paid on or after June 1 of the year for which the fee is due.
(b)
Each resident who operates a motor vehicle subject to the provisions of this article shall pay the license fee annually, at the city hall, to the city clerk or his duly authorized representative.
(c)
The license fee shall be due and payable on or before May 1 of each year and shall become delinquent on June 1 of each year.
(Ord. No. 88, § 4, 5-15-1980; Ord. No. 237, § 1, 6-27-2008; Ord. No. 255, § 1, 5-19-2011)
Sec. 16-58. - License decals.
(a)
Upon the resident's payment of the license fee and exhibition of a certificate of title or other acceptable proof of ownership for each motor vehicle to be licensed, the city clerk shall issue to the resident two decals, bearing serial numbers for each motor vehicle operated within the city by the resident. One decal shall be displayed on the front bumper, and the other decal shall be displayed on the rear bumper. Each decal shall be placed on the right side of the front and rear bumpers (as viewed from the rear of the motor vehicle).
(b)
Upon recommendation by the council or the city's chief of police, the city clerk may, at any time, issue license decals to a nonresident motorist, who shall display the decals in the same manner set forth in subsection (a) of this section. No nonresident motorist shall be required to purchase license decals, but each nonresident motorist electing to do so shall pay the annual license fee and shall be required to exhibit a certificate of title or other acceptable proof of ownership for each motor vehicle to be licensed.
(c)
No decal shall be transferrable from one owner or operator to another or from one motor vehicle to another. When an owner or operator transfers a motor vehicle to another person, the decals shall be removed and destroyed.
(Ord. No. 88, § 5, 5-15-1980; Ord. No. 237, § 2, 6-27-2008; Ord. No. 255, § 2, 5-19-2011)
Sec. 16-59. - New residents and newly acquired vehicles.
(a)
New residents of the city who become subject to this article between annual licensing dates shall pay the license fee and obtain decals within ten days after becoming a resident.
(b)
An owner or operator who acquires a motor vehicle subject to this article between annual licensing dates shall pay the license fee and obtain decals within ten days after the motor vehicle is acquired.
(c)
There shall be no proration of the license fee because of the issuance of license decals between annual licensing dates.
(Ord. No. 88, § 6, 5-15-1980)
Sec. 16-60. - Use of fee revenue.
The revenue from the license fees shall be used in paying the cost of administration of this article and enforcement of its provisions.
(Ord. No. 88, § 7, 5-15-1980)
Secs. 16-61—16-78. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - ROOM TAX[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Room tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50 et seq.

Sec. 16-79. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Clerk means the city clerk of Lookout Mountain, Georgia.
Due date means the 20th day after the end of the monthly period for which tax is to be computed.
Guest room means a room occupied, or intended, arranged, or designed for occupancy, by one or more occupants for the purpose of living quarters or residential use. The term "guest room" shall not include meeting rooms or exhibition halls.
Hotel/motel means any structure or any portion of a structure, including any motel, lodge, lodginghouse, roominghouse, dormitory, hotel, motor hotel, auto court, inn, bed and breakfast inn, tourist camp, tourist cabin, public club, or private club, containing guest rooms and which is occupied, or is intended or designed for occupancy by guests, whether rent is paid in money, goods, labor, or otherwise. The term "hotel/motel" does not include any jail, hospital, asylum, sanitarium, orphanage, prison, detention center, or other buildings in which human beings are housed and detained under legal restraint.
Monthly period means the calendar months of any year.
Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room or apartment in a hotel/motel or the right to the use or possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and possession of the room or apartment.
Occupant or guest means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has the right to use or possess any room in a hotel/motel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license to use, or other agreement, or otherwise.
Operator means any person operating a hotel/motel in the city including, but not limited to, the owner or proprietor of such premises, the lessee, sublessee, lender in possession, licensee, or any other person otherwise operating such hotel/motel.
Permanent resident means any occupant as of a given date who has or shall have occupied or has or shall have the right of occupancy of any guest room in a hotel/motel for at least 30 consecutive days next preceding such date.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, nonprofit corporation or cooperative, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit, the plural as well as the singular number, excepting the United States of America, the state, and any political subdivision of either thereof upon which the city is without power to impose the tax herein provided.
Rent means the consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the operator to the occupant, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Return means any return filed or required to be filed as herein provided.
Tax means the tax imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 138, § 1, 2-16-1989)
State Law reference— Definitions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-50.2.
Sec. 16-80. - Imposition and rate of tax.
There is hereby imposed and there shall be paid a tax of three percent of the rent for every occupancy of a guest room in a hotel/motel in the city. The tax shall be paid upon any occupancy on and after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, although such occupancy is had pursuant to a contract, lease, or other arrangement made prior to such date.
(Ord. No. 138, § 2, 2-16-1989)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51.
Sec. 16-81. - Collection of tax by operator.
It shall be the duty of every operator of a hotel/motel located within the city to collect from the occupants the tax levied and imposed upon the occupancy of guest rooms by the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 138, § 3, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-82. - Exemptions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tax shall be levied as provided in this article upon:
(1)
Charges made for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided to any person who certifies that he is staying in such room, lodging, or accommodation as a result of the destruction of his home or residence by fire or other casualty;
(2)
The use of meeting rooms and other such facilities or any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations provided without charge;
(3)
Any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations furnished for a period of one or more days for use by Georgia state or local governmental officials or employees when traveling on official business. Notwithstanding the availability of any other means of identifying the person as a state or local government official or employee, whenever a person pays for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations with a state or local government credit or debit card, such rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be deemed to have been furnished for use by a Georgia state or local government official or employee traveling on official business for purposes of the exemption provided by this subsection. For the purpose of the exemption provided under this subsection, the term "local government official or employee" shall include officials or employees of counties, municipalities, consolidated governments, or county or independent school districts; or
(4)
Charges made for continuous use of any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations after the first 30 days of continuous occupancy.
(Ord. No. 138, § 4, 2-16-1989)
State Law reference— Exemptions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-51(h).
Sec. 16-83. - Registration of operator.
(a)
Every person engaging or about to engage in business as an operator of a hotel/motel in this city shall immediately register with the clerk. Persons engaged in such business must so register not later than 30 days after the date that the ordinance from which this article is derived becomes effective, but such privilege of registration after the imposition of such tax shall not relieve any person from the obligation of payment or collection of tax on and after the date of imposition thereof, regardless of registration. Such registration shall set forth the name under which such person transacts business or intends to transact business, the location of his place of business, and such other information which would facilitate the collection of the tax as the clerk may require. The registration shall be signed by the owner, if a natural person; by a member or partner in the case of ownership by an association or partnership; and by an executive officer, in the case of ownership by a corporation.
(b)
A separate registration shall be required for each place of business of an operator.
(c)
Upon the registration of an operator as hereinbefore provided, the clerk shall issue to such operator, without charge, a certificate of authority to collect the tax from the occupants, stating the name and location of the business to which it is applicable. Such certificates shall be non-assignable and nontransferable, and shall be returned immediately to the clerk upon the cessation of business by the registered operator at the location named, or upon sale or transfer of such business at said location.
(Ord. No. 138, § 5, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-84. - Collection fee allowed operators.
Operators collecting the tax levied hereunder shall be allowed a percentage of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and payment of the amount due, if said amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of the deduction shall be the same rate authorized for deductions from state sales and use tax under the Georgia Retailers' and Consumers' Sales and Use Tax Act, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-50, as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. No. 138, § 6, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-85. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Re-computation of tax. If the clerk is not satisfied with the return or the amount of the tax required to be paid to the city by any person, he may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within his possession or that may come into his possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or more monthly periods.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination shall bear interest at the monthly rate of three-fourths of one percent, or a fraction thereof, from the due date of taxes.
(c)
Notice of determination. The clerk or his designated representative shall give to the operator written notice of the deficiency determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, such service shall be addressed to the operator at his address as it appears in the records of the clerk. Service by mail is complete when delivered by certified mail and with a receipt signed by the addressee.
(d)
Time within which notice of deficiency determined to be mailed. Except in the case of failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within one year after the 20th day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined, or within one year after the return is filed, whichever period should last expire.
(e)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the clerk may offset overpayments for a period against unpaid tax found to be due for another period, against penalties, and against the interest on such unpaid tax.
(Ord. No. 138, § 7, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-86. - Determination if no return is made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any operator fails to make a return, the clerk shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the operator, or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total rentals in the city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information which is or may come into the possession of the clerk. Upon the basis of this estimate, the clerk shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid to the city, adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof.
(b)
Interest on amount found due. The amount of the unpaid tax found to be due shall bear interest at the rate of three-fourths of one percent per month from and after the 20th day of the month following the monthly period for which the amount should have been returned, until the date of payment of such tax, penalties, and interest.
(c)
Notice of determination; service of. Promptly after making his determination, the clerk shall give to the operator written notice of his determination, which notice may be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
(Ord. No. 138, § 8, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-87. - Administration of article.
(a)
Authority of clerk. The clerk shall administer and enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of the tax imposed by this article.
(b)
Records required from operators. Every operator renting guest rooms in the city to a person shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such form as the clerk may require.
(c)
Examination of records; audits. The clerk, or any person authorized in writing by the clerk, may examine the books, papers, records, financial reports, equipment, and other facilities of any operator renting guest rooms to a person and any operator liable for the tax, in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount required to be paid.
(d)
Authority to require reports. In administration of the provisions of this article, the clerk may require the filing of reports by any person or class of persons having in such person's possession or custody information relating to rentals of guest rooms which are subject to the tax. The reports shall be filed with the clerk when required by the clerk and shall set forth the rental charged for each occupancy, the dates of occupancy, and such other information as the clerk may require.
(Ord. No. 138, § 9, 2-16-1989)
Sec. 16-88. - Violations.
(a)
Any operator or other person who fails to register as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the clerk, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be guilty of an offense. Any person required to make, render, sign, or verify any report who makes any false or fraudulent report, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of an amount due required by this article to be made shall be guilty of an offense.
(b)
The city attorney is empowered to collect delinquent taxes due under this article.
(Ord. No. 138, § 10, 2-16-1989)
Secs. 16-89—16-119. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - OCCUPATION TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Occupation taxes, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7 et seq.

Sec. 16-120. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Employee means:
(1)
An individual whose work is performed under the direction and supervision of the employer and whose employer withholds FICA, federal income tax, or state income tax from such individual's compensation, or whose employer issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, a Form IRS W-2, but not a Form IRS 1099; or
(2)
An individual who performs work under the direction and supervision of one business or practitioner, in accordance with the terms of a contract or agreement with another business which recruits such individual, is an employee of the business or practitioner which issues to such individual, for purposes of documenting compensation, a form IRS W-2.
Location or office means and includes any structure or vehicle where a business, profession, or occupation is conducted, but shall not include a temporary or construction work site which serves a single customer or project or a vehicle used for sales or delivery by a business or practitioner of a profession or occupation which has a location or office. The renter's or lessee's location which is the site of personal property which is rented or leased from another does not constitute a location or office for the personal property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor. The site of real property which is rented or leased to another does not constitute a location or office for the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor unless the real property's owner, lessor, or the agent of the owner or lessor, in addition to showing the property to prospective lessees or tenants and performing maintenance or repair of the property, otherwise conducts the business of renting or leasing the real property at such site or otherwise conducts any other business, profession, or occupation at such site.
Occupation tax means a tax levied on persons, partnerships, corporations, or other entities for engaging in an occupation, profession, or business.
Practitioners of professions and occupations shall not mean and include a practitioner who is an employee of a business, if the business pays an occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 174, § 2, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-5.
Sec. 16-121. - Occupation tax.
The city hereby enacts an occupation tax on those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations which have one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city. In connection with this occupation tax, all businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations doing business within the corporate limits of the city shall, from time to time, submit information regarding the site of any location or office and payment of occupation taxes to other local governments, in any manner deemed necessary by the city.
(Ord. No. 174, § 3, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-6.
Sec. 16-122. - Businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location or office in Georgia.
The city hereby levies and assesses an occupation tax on those businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with no location or office in Georgia, provided that the business or practitioner:
(1)
Has one or more employees or agents who exert substantial efforts within the corporate limits of the city, for the purpose of soliciting business or serving customers or clients; or
(2)
Owns personal or real property which generates income and which is located in the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 174, § 4, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 16-123. - Exemption if taxed elsewhere.
If a business or practitioner subject to this article provides proof of payment of a local business or occupation tax in another state which purports to tax the business's or practitioner's sales or services in the state, the business or practitioner shall be exempt from this local occupation tax.
(Ord. No. 174, § 5, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-124. - Computation of tax.
The amount of occupation tax to be levied on an individual business or practitioner shall be based upon the number of employees, and shall be as determined by the city council from time to time.
(Ord. No. 174, § 6, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Authority to tax on basis of employees, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-10(a)(1).
Sec. 16-125. - Computation of number of employees.
For purposes of this article, the number of employees of an individual business or practitioner shall be computed on a full-time position basis or a full-time position equivalent basis. For the purposes of this computation, an employee who works 40 hours or more weekly shall be considered a full-time employee. The average weekly hours of employees who work less than 40 hours weekly shall be aggregated, and such aggregated sum shall be divided by 40 to produce the number of full-time position equivalents.
(Ord. No. 174, § 7, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-126. - Election of tax for certain professions.
(a)
The practitioners of professions and occupations listed in subsection (b) of this section shall elect as their entire occupation tax one of the following:
(1)
The occupation tax resulting from application of the other provisions of this article; or
(2)
A fee per practitioner, in the amount determined from time to time by the city council, who is licensed to provide the service, such tax to be paid at the practitioner's office or location.
(b)
The following practitioners of professions and occupations are entitled to make the election provided under this section:
(1)
Lawyers;
(2)
Physicians licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 34 (O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.);
(3)
Osteopaths licensed under O.C.G.A. title 43, ch. 34 (O.C.G.A. § 43-34-1 et seq.);
(4)
Chiropractors;
(5)
Podiatrists;
(6)
Dentists;
(7)
Optometrists;
(8)
Psychologists;
(9)
Veterinarians;
(10)
Landscape architects;
(11)
Land surveyors;
(12)
Practitioners of physiotherapy;
(13)
Public accountants;
(14)
Embalmers;
(15)
Funeral directors;
(16)
Civil, mechanical, hydraulic, or electrical engineers;
(17)
Architects;
(18)
Marriage and family therapists, social workers, and professional counselors;
(19)
Dealers of motor vehicles, as defined in O.C.G.A. § 10-1-622(1); and
(20)
Any other business, profession, or occupation for which state licensure or registration is required by state law, unless the state law regulating such business, profession, or occupation specifically allows for regulation by local governments.
(Ord. No. 174, § 8, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Exempt businesses and practitioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
Sec. 16-127. - Exclusions.
The following businesses or practitioners shall be excluded from the occupation tax, but shall be subject to taxation and regulation as otherwise provided by general law and other ordinances:
(1)
Those businesses regulated by the state public service commission.
(2)
Those electrical service businesses organized under O.C.G.A. title 46, ch. 3 (O.C.G.A. § 46-3-1 et seq.).
(3)
Any farm operation for the production from or on the land of agricultural products, but not including any agribusiness.
(Ord. No. 174, § 9, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Exempt businesses and practitioners, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-16.
Sec. 16-128. - Real estate brokers.
The occupation tax for real estate brokers shall be levied only at the place where such real estate brokers maintain a principal or branch office.
(Ord. No. 174, § 10, 12-21-1995)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. § 48-13-7.
Sec. 16-129. - Due date.
All occupation taxes authorized by this article shall be due and payable annually on January 1. In the event that any person commences business on any date after January 1, the tax shall be due and payable on the date of the commencement of the business.
(Ord. No. 174, § 11, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-130. - Proration after July 1.
When any person commences business on or after July 1 in any year, the business or occupation tax for the remaining portion of the year shall be 50 percent of the tax imposed for the entire year.
(Ord. No. 174, § 12, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-131. - Penalties.
Should any occupation tax imposed by this article remain due and unpaid for 90 days from the due date of the tax, the person liable for the tax shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the tax due.
(Ord. No. 174, § 13, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-132. - Interest.
Delinquent occupation taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1½ percent per month.
(Ord. No. 174, § 14, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-133. - State licenses.
Each person subject to an occupation tax who is also licensed by the state shall post the state license in a conspicuous place in the licensee's place of business and shall keep the license there at all times while the license remains valid.
(Ord. No. 174, § 15, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-134. - Officer charged with collection.
The city clerk is hereby designated as the officer charged with the levy and collection of occupation taxes.
(Ord. No. 174, § 16, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-135. - Other remedies.
In addition to any other remedies available under general law for the collection of occupation taxes from persons subject to the occupation tax who fail or refuse to pay the tax, the city clerk shall issue executions against the delinquent taxpayers for the amount of the taxes due when the taxes become due.
(Ord. No. 174, § 17, 12-21-1995)
Sec. 16-136. - Criminal prosecution.
Notwithstanding any other remedies available under this article or general law, the city may also criminally prosecute persons violating this article by failing to pay the occupation tax or by refusing to register. All remedies in this article, general law, or any other law, shall be cumulative.
(Ord. No. 174, § 19, 12-21-1995)
Secs. 16-137—16-155. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - CABLE OR VIDEO FRANCHISE FEE

Sec. 16-156. - Franchise fee for state-issued cable or video franchise.
(a)
The city hereby requires a franchise fee of five percent of gross revenues generated within the city for any cable or video state franchise issued in its corporate boundaries by the state.
(b)
The city hereby authorizes the mayor or city clerk, upon receipt of notice to the city of its right to designate a franchise fee for an applicant for or holder of an existing state franchise, to provide written notice to the Secretary of State and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise within a service area that is wholly or partially located within the city limits of the five percent franchise fee rate applicable to such applicant or holder of a state franchise.
(Ord. No. 234, §§ 1, 2, 2-21-2008)
State Law reference— Franchise fee authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-76-6.
Secs. 16-157—16-180. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - YARD SALES

Sec. 16-181. - Defined.
For purposes of this article, the term "yard sale" is defined as any sale of personalty, whether by a resident or nonresident of the city, and whether by an individual or a business entity, occurring outside or within a garage or carport of a dwelling within the city's single-family district.
(Ord. No. 163, § 1, 10-21-1993)
Sec. 16-182. - Regulations.
All yard sales within the city shall be subject to the following regulations:
(1)
No one other than the owner or lessee of the property on which the yard sale takes place may conduct a yard sale.
(2)
No yard sale may take place unless and until the owner or lessee of the property on which the yard sale is to take place applies for and obtains a permit from the city to conduct the yard sale. Applications for permits shall be made to the city clerk, on forms provided by the city clerk, which forms shall, among other things, contain the name of the owner of the property on which the yard sale is to take place, the name of the lessee (if any) of the property, the date and hours of the proposed sale, the particular area of the property where the sale is to take place (e.g., carport, garage, back yard or side yard), and a certification that the owner or lessee will be personally responsible for all activity occurring in connection with the proposed yard sale and will comply with the provisions of this article and all other ordinances of the city.
(3)
No owner or lessee of property within the city may conduct more than one yard sale within the city during any calendar year.
(4)
Yard sales shall be limited in duration to a period of two consecutive days and may take place only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:30 p.m. during the two-day period.
(5)
If the property on which the yard sale is conducted has a carport or garage, the yard sale may be conducted only within the carport or garage. If the property has no carport or garage, the yard sale may be conducted only in a side yard or rear yard and not in a front yard or on a vacant lot. For purposes of this article, the terms "side yard," "rear yard" and "front yard" shall have the same meaning as set forth in the zoning ordinance.
(6)
Any signs which the owner or lessee has erected in connection with a yard sale shall be removed by the owner or lessee immediately upon the conclusion of the sale.
(Ord. No. 163, § 2, 10-21-1993)
Sec. 16-183. - Violations.
In the event of any violation of this article, the city, acting through its chief of police or other designated official, shall require the yard sale to cease immediately and shall direct the owner or lessee of the property immediately to move all personalty being offered for sale inside the owner's or lessee's dwelling. The chief of police or any police officer of the city may, in addition, issue citations for violations of this article.
(Ord. No. 163, § 3, 10-21-1993)
