Chapter 24 - PLANNING
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 24-1. - Enforcement of actions of planning commission or decisions of board of zoning appeals; appeal of decisions of board of zoning appeals.
The city council may provide for the enforcement of any ordinance or resolution adopted by the planning commission or of decisions of the board of zoning appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of zoning appeals may take an appeal to the superior court of the county. Such appeal may be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision of the board, and upon failure to file such appeal within 30 days, the decision of the board shall be final.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(5), 2-20-1986)
Secs. 24-2—24-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - PLANNING COMMISSION

Sec. 24-21. - Created; membership.
(a)
The city does hereby create a municipal planning commission that shall be known as the municipal planning commission of the city (the commission). It shall be composed of nine members to be appointed by the city council after recommendation by the mayor. Original appointments to the commission shall be re-designated as-follows: three for a term of one year, three for a term of two years, and three for a term of three years. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of three years each. Members of the commission shall serve without compensation; provided, however, that the city council may subsequently determine the amount, if any, of compensation for such members.
(b)
Any vacancy in the membership of the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the city council after recommendation by the mayor. Upon recommendation by the mayor and approval by the city council, any commission member may be removed for cause after written notice and a public hearing.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(1), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-22. - Officers; meetings; staff.
(a)
The commission shall elect one of its appointive members as chairperson, who shall serve for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. A second appointive member shall be elected as vice-chairperson, and he shall serve for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer or an employee of the city or a member of the commission.
(b)
The commission shall meet at least once a year at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the chairperson may determine. The commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations. Such record kept by the commission shall be a public record.
(c)
The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work. In the performance of its duties, the commission may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, or local, public or semi-public agencies or private individuals or corporations, may expend such funds, and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. The commission may also make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. All such expenditures of the commission, exclusive of gifts to the commission or contract receipts, however, shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the city council.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(2-1), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-23. - Functions.
The commission shall have as its function and duty the making of careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and the preparation of such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare as well as the efficiency and economy in the development of the city. The commission shall specifically have the power and duty to:
(1)
Prepare a master plan or parts thereof for the development of the city.
(2)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council a zoning ordinance or resolution and map for the city.
(3)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council regulations for the subdivision of land within the city, and to administer such regulations as may be adopted.
(4)
Prepare and recommend for adoption to the city council a plat or plats or an official map showing the exact location of the boundary lines of existing, proposed, extended, widened, or narrowed streets, public open spaces or public building sites, together with regulations to control the erection of buildings or other structures within such lines, within the city limits or any specified portion thereof.
(5)
Agree with the governing bodies or designated authorities of contiguous counties and municipalities upon boundaries, procedures for joint action, procedures for the adoption and administration of ordinances and resolutions, and regulations applying to unincorporated areas adjacent to the city. Any such areas may be included in the area for which the commission has authority to prepare a general plan and a master plan and to prepare and administer zoning ordinances or resolutions, land subdivision regulations, and official maps.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(2-2), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-24. - Miscellaneous powers.
The commission may also make, publish and distribute maps, plans, and reports and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the city to public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational, professional, and other organizations and citizens. It may also recommend to the city council public improvements and plans for the financing thereof. All public officials of the city shall, upon request, furnish to the commission, within a reasonable time, such available information as the commission may require for its work. The commission, its members and employees, in the performance of commission functions, may enter upon any land, make examinations and surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments and markers thereon. In general, the commission shall have such powers as may be necessary to enable it to perform its functions and promote the planning of the city, including the authority to enter into agreements with political subdivisions and planning commissions, by whatever name known, in adjacent states.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(2-3), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-25. - Referring matters to commission.
The city council may by resolution or ordinance provide for the reference of any matter or class of matters to the commission before final action thereon by the city council. The city council shall take no final action upon such matters referred to the commission until the commission has submitted its report thereon, but the commission's report shall be made within 30 days of the reference. In the event the commission fails to make its report within 30 days, and the city council does not grant the commission an extension of time, the council may act without the report.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(3-1), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-26. - Quorum.
Five members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. In making recommendations and reports to the city council and in taking other authorized action, affirmative votes of the majority present shall be required. No commission member shall act in a case in which he has a personal interest. The commission may request the mayor to appoint a temporary commission member, and the mayor shall be authorized to so appoint such temporary member without city council approval, in situations where it is necessary to obtain a quorum of uninterested members.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(3-2), 2-20-1986)
Secs. 24-27—24-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS

Sec. 24-56. - Created; membership.
The city does hereby create a board of zoning appeals which shall be known as the board of zoning appeals of the city (the board). It shall be composed of nine members to be appointed by the city council after recommendation by the mayor. Original appointments to the board shall be as follows: three for a term of three years, three for a term of four years, and three members for terms of five years. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of five years each.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(4-1), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-57. - Quorum.
Five members of the board shall constitute a quorum. Any action by the board shall be upon the affirmative vote of the majority present. No board member shall act in a case in which he has a personal interest. The board may request the mayor to appoint a temporary board member, and the mayor shall be authorized to so appoint such temporary member in situations where it is necessary to obtain a quorum of uninterested members.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(4-2), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-58. - Officers and meetings.
(a)
The board shall elect one of its members as chairperson, who shall serve for one year or until he is re-elected or his successor is elected. The board shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer of the city or a member of the board. The board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business. Meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board may determine.
(b)
The chairperson, or in his absence, the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be public records.
(Ord. No. 116, § 3(4-3), 2-20-1986)
Sec. 24-59. - Appeals.
(a)
Appeals to the board may be taken by any person aggrieved by action described in subsection (d) of this section. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the board, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(b)
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
(c)
The board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and shall give public notice thereof. In addition, the board shall give due notice to the parties in interest and shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(d)
The board shall have the following powers:
(1)
To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of the city's zoning ordinance (Ordinance Number 25, as amended) or any resolution promulgated thereunder.
(2)
To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the aforesaid zoning ordinance or resolution upon which such board is required to pass under such ordinance or resolution.
(3)
To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance from terms of the aforesaid zoning ordinance or resolution as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance or resolution will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of the ordinance or resolution shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the board that:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography;
b.
The application of the ordinance or resolution to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the ordinance or resolution; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land for a building or structure that is prohibited by the ordinance or resolution.
(4)
In exercising any of the above powers, the board may, after notice and hearing, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
(Ord. No. 116, §§ 3(4-4)—3(4-7), 2-20-1986)
Secs. 24-60—24-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - BUILDING AND LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR

Sec. 24-76. - Position created; qualifications; term.
Pursuant to section 3.05 of the Charter of the City of Lookout Mountain, Georgia, and on the recommendation of the mayor, there is hereby created the position of building and land use administrator. The building and land use administrator shall be a resident of the city and may, but shall not be required to, be a member of the municipal planning commission. The building and land use administrator shall be appointed by the city council after receipt of one or more recommendations for the position from the municipal planning commission. The building and land use administrator shall serve for a term of three years from the date of appointment unless said administrator resigns or is replaced or removed from office by majority vote of the council. The building and land use administrator may be reappointed for successive three-year terms by majority vote of the council. The building and land use administrator, as a resident volunteer, shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. No. 310, § 1, 7-12-2018)
Sec. 24-77. - Duties and responsibilities of building and land use administrator.
(a)
The building and land use administrator shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
(1)
To familiarize himself with all ordinances, codes, regulations, and procedures applicable in the city, pertaining to zoning, land use, subdivisions, building construction, fences, and related permits;
(2)
To assist individuals, business entities and other organizations in the process of applying for permits for buildings, other structures (including fences), and land use within the city, providing them with pertinent information and guidance regarding the application and approval process and applicable ordinances, codes, regulations and procedures while also communicating that the municipal planning commission or other appropriate agency has the ultimate authority to grant or deny such permits;
(3)
To receive and review applications and related plans and specifications for permits for the construction of buildings and other structures (including fences) and for other proposed uses of land;
(4)
To conduct, along with the building official, inspections of premises and preliminary investigations regarding the compliance of buildings, other structures (including fences), and other proposed uses of land with applicable ordinances, codes and regulations;
(5)
To recommend to the municipal planning commission or other appropriate agency that applications for permits for the construction of buildings and other structures (including fences) and for other proposed uses of land be granted, denied or conditioned on the applicant's fulfillment of specified requirements or obligations;
(6)
To perform such additional tasks and functions, directly related to the foregoing, as may be specifically requested by the chair of the municipal planning commission, the chair of the board of zoning appeals, or the mayor;
(7)
To keep and maintain current records relating to all the foregoing.
(b)
The building and land use administrator's authority shall be advisory only with all final decisions and determinations within the jurisdiction of the municipal planning commission, board of zoning appeals or city council to be made by those agencies.
(Ord. No. 310, § 2, 7-12-2018)
