ARTICLE 15 - ROADWAY AND INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Roads, Ch. 62 et seq., roadway design and construction requirements, App. B, Art. 5 et seq.

15.1 - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Infrastructure project means a site improvement required to provide water distribution, sewer collection, stormwater management, or street lights within a specifically identified residential development that are necessary to bring the development into compliance with the standards set forth in the Paulding County Development Regulations. Such an improvement is intended for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the residential development alone and is not designed to provide service to the community at large.
Infrastructure means the water distribution, sewer collection, stormwater management, and street light systems contained within the final plat for a residential development recorded with the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Paulding County.
Roadway means the roadway contained within the final plat for a residential development recorded with the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Paulding County.
Roadway project improvement means a site improvement to a substandard roadway contained within a specifically identified residential development that is necessary to bring the roadway into compliance with the standards set forth in the Paulding County Development Regulations. Such an improvement is intended for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the residential development alone and is not designed to provide service to the community at large.
System improvement means an improvement designed to provide service to the community at large, in contrast to a roadway project improvement or an infrastructure project improvement.
Vacant lot means a lot within a residential subdivision upon which no residential structure has been constructed or for which no certificate of occupancy has been issued by the county.
(Res. No. 12-14, § 1, 6-12-2012)
15.2 - Applicability.
(a)
This article shall apply to those residential developments meeting the following criteria:
(1)
A final plat for the development has been lawfully recorded in Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Paulding County, but all or a portion of the roadways or infrastructure therein have not been accepted by the county for perpetual maintenance;
(2)
All or a portion of the roadways or infrastructure shown on the final plat do not comply with the development regulations; and
(3)
The bonds or other security instruments posted or which should have been posted for the residential development have failed to provide sufficient funds to the county for proper completion of the roadways and associated infrastructure within the residential development.
(b)
This chapter shall not apply to any residential development or vacant lot which is the subject of a voluntary project improvement agreement with the county.
(Res. No. 12-14, § 1, 6-12-2012)
15.3 - Roadway and infrastructure project improvement fee.
(a)
Where the county determines that a residential development meets the criteria set forth in section 15.2, the community development director may condition issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy for the remaining vacant lots within the development upon payment of a roadway and infrastructure project improvement fee.
(b)
The roadway and infrastructure project improvement fee shall be determined by the community development director by dividing the anticipated costs to complete the residential development in compliance with the development regulations by the number of vacant lots existing within the residential development. Once the first roadway and infrastructure project improvement fee for a specific residential development is determined, the fee will remain constant for the remaining vacant lots within that residential development.
(c)
No roadway and infrastructure project improvement fee may exceed $2,500.00.
(Res. No. 12-14, § 1, 6-12-2012)
15.4 - Expenditure of roadway and infrastructure project improvement fees.
(a)
Roadway and infrastructure project improvement fees shall be used solely to pay for expenses incurred by the county in bringing the roadways and associated infrastructure of the specific residential development for which they were assessed into compliance with the development regulations. No such fees may be utilized for system improvements.
(b)
Roadway and infrastructure project improvement fees shall be accounted for and categorized separately for each individual residential development for which they were assessed.
(c)
Upon collection of sufficient roadway and infrastructure project improvement fees to bring the roadways and associated infrastructure of a residential development into compliance with the development regulations, the county may commence construction of the improvements, however this provision does not preclude the county from commencing such construction at an earlier date.
(Res. No. 12-14, § 1, 6-12-2012)
