ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Any resolution or ordinance fixing the salary of any county officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-14(4); director of community development; subpoena and arrest powers, § 30-108; director of parks and recreation, § 50-1; fire marshal, § 58-131.
State Law reference— Employment of additional temporary personnel and equipment for assistance of county officers or departments authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-11; civil service system for county employees authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-21(a); county manager authorized, O.C.G.A. § 36-5-22; code of ethics for government service, O.C.G.A. § 45-10-1 et seq.; Fair Employment Practices Act of 1978, O.C.G.A. § 45-19-20 et seq.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-121. - Personnel provisions.
Nothing in this Code or in the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance or resolution adopting, establishing or amending any job classification and compensation plan for the employees of the county or any other personnel rules, regulations, policies or procedures, which have been adopted by the board of commissioners. All such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out in this Code.
(Code 1987, ch. 15)
State Law reference— Authority to establish retirement systems for municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(4); authority to provide insurance, retirement and pension benefits, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; social security coverage for employees of the state and political subdivisions of the state, O.C.G.A. § 47-18-1 et seq.; Public Retirement Systems Standards Law, O.C.G.A. § 47-20-1 et seq.; Georgia municipal employees benefit system, O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq.; authority to maintain and modify retirement or pension systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(14).
Secs. 2-122—2-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COUNTY MARSHAL

Sec. 2-141. - Office created.
(a)
There is hereby created the office of county marshal for the unincorporated area of the county. The county marshal's office shall do all things necessary in order to be recognized as a law enforcement unit of the state and certified within the standards of the POST act as outlined in O.C.G.A. § 35-8-1 et seq.
(b)
The primary purpose of the county marshal's office shall be as a code enforcement agency for unincorporated Paulding County.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(a); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018)
Sec. 2-142. - Powers generally.
The county marshal's office shall have the powers of arrest and the enforcement of all county ordinances and laws of the state and any and all powers as may be applicable in the course of carrying out their primary purpose as outlined in O.C.G.A. § 36-8-5, and as amended from time to time.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(a); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018)
Sec. 2-143. - Duties enumerated.
The duties of the office of the county marshal shall be as follows:
(1)
To enforce all ordinances enacted by the board of commissioners.
(2)
To issue warnings and citations for court appearances for the violation of county ordinances.
(3)
To investigate and collect evidence of any ordinance violations.
(4)
To respond to complaints of alleged ordinance violations.
(5)
To appear and testify in court in any cases involving ordinance violations.
(6)
To work in connection with the county attorney's office for the county.
(7)
To work with the county tax commissioner's office in the enforcement and collection of any taxes or license fees due to the county.
(8)
To coordinate enforcement efforts with the county planning and zoning department and building permit offices.
(9)
At the direction of the board of commissioners, to inspect all roads and bridges of the county and report from time to time on the conditions of such roads and bridges located in the county as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-8-6.
(10)
To perform any other duties, including arrests for state law violations, which are permissible and allowed under O.C.G.A. § 36-8-5 as may be applicable in conjunction with the primary purpose of the marshal's office.
(11)
To function as a security agency for the board of commissioners at the Paulding County Administration Building and other county buildings as may be requested by the board of commissioners and to provide security functions at official meetings involving the board of commissioners or at other official meetings of the Paulding County government at the board of commissioners' instruction and request.
(12)
To perform any other duties as constables as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 15-10-102.
(13)
To assist in portions of the county's response to disasters and other large-scale emergency response efforts.
(14)
To regulate the malt beverage, wine and liquor-by-the-drink licensing for establishments in the unincorporated areas of Paulding County.
(15)
To regulate the vehicle-for-hire licensing for the unincorporated areas of the county.
(16)
To assist the Paulding County Sheriff's Office as requested by the Paulding County Sheriff.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(b); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018)
Sec. 2-144. - Requirements.
The requirements for the county marshal's office shall be as follows:
(1)
All officers of the county marshal's office shall be POST certified or shall become POST certified within 12 months of their employment in the county marshal's office;
(2)
All officers must be at least 21 years of age, have a high school diploma or GED and a valid state driver's license;
(3)
All officers must be of good moral character and standing in the community and not have been convicted of a felony.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(c); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018)
Sec. 2-145. - Jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of the office of county marshal shall be for the entire unincorporated area of the county and the office of the county marshal shall report through the county's chain of command and organizational chart to the county manager and then to the board of commissioners.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(d); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018; Ord. No. 22-09 , § 3, 7-14-2022)
Sec. 2-146. - Chief marshal.
There is created in the office of the county marshal a position as chief marshal, which position shall be appointed and approved by the board of commissioners. The chief marshal shall be responsible for developing office policy and organization. He shall be responsible for the promulgation of all rules and regulations for the conduct, management and control of the county police as outlined in O.C.G.A. § 36-8-7 and shall be responsible for all other items of the county marshal's office and shall be deemed a department head with ultimate reporting to the board of commissioners; provided however, this position and department is subject to the county's chain of command and organizational chart and shall report to the county manager for daily functions.
(Code 1987, § 2-4(e); Res. No. 18-07, § 1, 2-27-2018; Ord. No. 22-09 , § 4, 7-14-2022)
Secs. 2-147—2-165. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS

Sec. 2-166. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
ADA coordinator means the person designated to receive complaints on behalf of Paulding County. For the purposes of this division, such person is designated as the county clerk or in the alternative, the director of human resources if the county clerk position is not filled or not available.
Appeal means a request to have a complaint filed with the ADA coordinator reviewed by the chairman of the board of commissioners.
Complaint means a written grievance by a person with an alleged disability requesting review by the Paulding County ADA Coordinator.
County service means any service, program or activity that is provided by Paulding County, Georgia and is not a service otherwise under the direction of another entity such as the State of Georgia or a municipality. Employment practices are governed by the United States Equal Opportunity Commission under Title I of the ADA.
(Code 1987, § 2-1; Res. No. 15-32, § 2, 10-13-2015)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-4.
Sec. 2-167. - Declaration of policy.
(a)
It is hereby affirmed that as the policy of the county to enable equal opportunity to participate in all county government supported services, programs, activities, and employment without regard to age, sex, gender, race, national origin, sexual orientation, creed or disability.
(b)
In order to promote the prompt and equitable adjustment of a complaint regarding a county service submitted, it is the desire of the county to adjust such complaints informally and officials and employees are expected to make efforts to resolve problems as they arise. However, the county further recognizes some formal complaints may be submitted and such complaints should be reviewed as set forth in section 2-168.
(c)
Paulding County, Georgia will generally, upon request, provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in county's services, including qualified sign language interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision impairments which are provided by the Paulding County Board of Commissioners.
(d)
Paulding County, Georgia will make all reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of the county's services.
(e)
Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a county service should contact the office of the ADA coordinator as soon as possible, but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
(f)
The ADA does not require Paulding County to take any action that would fundamentally alter the nature of county services, or impose an undue financial or administrative burden upon the county.
(Code 1987, § 2-2; Res. No. 15-32, § 3, 10-13-2015)
Sec. 2-168. - Grievance procedure.
(a)
Complaints that a county service as defined in section 2-166 is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the ADA Coordinator, Patricia Tibbitts, County Clerk, 240 Constitution Boulevard Dallas, GA 30132. In her absence or in the absence of the position of the county clerk being filled, they may be submitted to the director of human resources for the county.
(b)
Paulding County Government will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
(c)
This complaint procedure is established to meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ("ADA"). It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability of Paulding County service provided by the board of commissioners. Further note, Paulding County's Personnel Policy already governs employment-related complaints of disability discrimination.
(d)
The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant and location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint, will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
(e)
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant/complainant and/or his/her designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation to: Patricia Tibbitts, County Clerk, 240 Constitution Blvd. Dallas, GA 30132.
(f)
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA coordinator or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting, the ADA coordinator or her designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the Paulding County Board of Commissioners and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
(g)
If the response by the ADA coordinator or the designee assigned does not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his/her designee may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response to the chairman of the board of commissioners for review.
(h)
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the chairman of the board of commissioners or his designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the chairman or his/her designee will respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
(i)
The chairman of the board of commissioners, may in his/her discretion, ask that the entire board of commissioners consider a complaint filed under this section for determination at a regularly scheduled board of commissioners' meeting. If the chairman determines that the full board will hear the complaint and determine a resolution, the complainant will be notified and the item will appear as a regular agenda item on the next available, regularly scheduled board of commissioners' meeting under new business. A determination by the full board is not a right held by the complainant, but is a discretionary step made by the chairman.
(j)
All written complaints received by ADA coordinator, appeals to the chairman or his/her designee, and responses from these two offices or the full board of commissioners if applicable will be retained by the Paulding County Board of Commissioners for at least three years.
(Code 1987, § 2-3; Res. No. 15-32, § 4, 10-13-2015)
Secs. 2-169—2-190. - Reserved.
