ARTICLE III. - AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS[4]
Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this Part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

DIVISION 1. - AIRPORT AUTHORITY

Sec. 301. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the "Paulding County Airport Authority Act".
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 1)
Sec. 302. - Paulding County Airport Authority.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Paulding County Airport Authority, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title, and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the Authority or the trustee acting under the trust indenture herein provided for shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees of the Authority. The Authority shall have perpetual existence.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 2)
Sec. 303. - Membership.
The Paulding County Airport Authority shall be composed of nine members as follows: The six members of the Paulding County Industrial Building Authority, created by an amendment to Article V, Section IX of the Constitution, ratified on November 6, 1962 (1962 Ga. Laws, page 1176), and three members to be appointed by the governing authority of Paulding County. Said three additional members shall be appointed as follows: one member shall be appointed for an initial term of office which shall expire on June 30, 1973, one member shall be appointed for an initial term of office which shall expire on June 30, 1974, and one member shall be appointed for an initial term of office which shall expire on June 30, 1975. Thereafter the terms of office of such three additional members shall be four years and until their respective successors are duly appointed and qualified. Within thirty days following the effective date of this Act, it shall be the duty of the governing authority of Paulding County to appoint said three members to the Paulding County Airport Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 3)
Sec. 304. - Meetings.
The Authority shall hold their first regular meeting after this Act becomes effective, and the first regular meeting of each year thereafter shall be in July. The Authority shall meet at such times as may be necessary to transact the business coming before it, but not less than quarterly. At its first meeting in July of each year thereafter, the Authority shall elect one of its members as its Chairman and another member as Secretary-Treasurer. Only one person shall hold the office of Secretary-Treasurer. These officers shall be elected for a term ending on June 30th of the year following the year in which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified. Five members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business coming before it. The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services. They shall be reimbursed, however, for all actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 4)
Sec. 305. - Vacancies in office.
In the event of a vacancy on the Authority by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original membership on the Authority, and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 5)
Sec. 306. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Paulding County Airport Authority" as created by the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improvement and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquisition of the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable.
(c)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired, including the payment or reimbursement of reasonable actual costs incurred as a result of utility relocations when such relocations are made necessary by the project, the cost of all machinery, equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and the cost of plans and specifications, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and improving the same, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the Authority including the proceeds from any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds", "bonds", and "obligations" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law, approved February 14, 1957 (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36), as amended, amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended; and such type of obligations may be issued by the Authority as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto, and in addition shall also mean obligations of the Authority the issuance of which are hereinafter authorized in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating", if, in the judgment of the Authority, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the Authority therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 6)
Sec. 307. - Powers.
The Authority shall have the following powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, gift or otherwise, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchise necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of, or disposition of, the same in any manner it deems to be the best advantage of the Authority;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ officers, agents and employees including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensation;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects or lease of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the State are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the Authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they may deem advisable. The said Authority is further granted the authority to make contracts and leases, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, with the United States Government or any agency or department thereof concerning the projects of the Authority, subject to the rights and interests of the holder of any of the bonds or obligations authorized to be issued hereunder, and by the resolution or trust indenture of the Authority authorizing the issuance of any of its bonds or obligations as provided in Section 21 of this Act;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the Authority or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(g)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency, instrumentality or other source may impose;
(h)
To accept loans and grants, or to accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof or from any other source, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency, instrumentality or political subdivision or any other source may impose;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same, and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any powers usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which are not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this State;
(k)
The Authority and the trustee acting under the trust indenture are specifically authorized to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein, not required in the normal operation of the Authority and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the Authority was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in section 2 and section 21 hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers especially given in this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 7)
Sec. 308. - Revenue bonds.
The Authority, or any authority or body which has succeeded, or which may in the future succeed, to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the Authority created hereby, shall have the power, and is hereby authorized, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as may be authorized by the Authority, shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to, and in conformity with, the Revenue Bond Law, approved February 14, 1957 (1957 Ga. Laws, page 36), amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937, approved March 31, 1937 (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761), as amended. All procedures pertaining to such issuance and the conditions thereof shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 8)
Sec. 309. - Form, denominations, registration, place of payment.
The Authority shall determine the form of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the State. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both. The Authority may make provisions for the registration of any coupon bond, as to principal alone, or to both the principal and interest.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 9)
Sec. 310. - Signatures, seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds, or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon, shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the Chairman of the Authority and attested by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority, and the official seal of the Authority shall be affixed thereto. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the Chairman and Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority. Any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the Authority by such persons as shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, at the actual time of the execution of such bonds, although such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office on the date of delivery and payment of such bonds.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 10)
Sec. 311. - Negotiability, exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have, and are hereby declared to have, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the State. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose, and the said bonds, their transfer, and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the State.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 11)
Sec. 312. - Sale, price.
The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 12)
Sec. 313. - Proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects, and unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may be issued in like manner to provide the amount of any deficit for the cost of the project or projects, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purposes. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into a sinking fund or used for additional construction as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 13)
Sec. 314. - Interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority, under like restrictions, may issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 14)
Sec. 315. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 15)
Sec. 316. - Conditions precedent to issuance, object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the Authority, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular, special, or adjourned meeting of the Authority by a majority vote of the quorum as provided in this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 16)
Sec. 317. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Paulding County. Such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for, and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment of such bonds. All such bonds shall contain recitals on their face substantially covering the foregoing provisions of this Section.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 17)
Sec. 318. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the Authority any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the Authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the State. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the Authority, including the proceeds derived from the sale of any surplus property of the Authority, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the Authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the property, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the Authority, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the Authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor, and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this State to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the Authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the Authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 18)
Sec. 319. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the Authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank or trust company, which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 19)
Sec. 320. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal, of the Authority, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the Authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the Authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide. Such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals, as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund. Said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agent or agents for paying interest and principal, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds, and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 20)
Sec. 321. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may protect and enforce, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the Authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 21)
Sec. 322. - Refunding bonds.
The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue refunding bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the Authority in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 22)
Sec. 323. - Validation.
Bonds of the Authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States Government or any department or agency of the United States Government, if subject to be sued, which has contracted with the Authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, a party-defendant to such action. Such municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the Authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds, against the Authority issuing the same, and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States Government if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said Paulding County Airport Authority.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 23)
Sec. 324. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such Authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 24)
Sec. 325. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the Authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said Authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will adversely affect the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority shall be created which will compete with the Authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the State itself so compete with the Authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the State, the Authority and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 25)
Sec. 326. - Monies considered trust funds.
All monies received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 26)
Sec. 327. - Purpose of authority.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purpose of the Authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, improving and operating airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft, including any related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the Authority to be necessary, convenient or desirable for, and incident to, the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 27)
Sec. 328. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The Authority is hereby authorized to prescribe, fix and collect rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to revise, from time to time, and collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or sub-leases of its lands or facilities, and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 28)
Sec. 329. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the Authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft shall be furnished.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 29)
Sec. 330. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 30)
Sec. 331. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia, and of the County of Paulding, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 31)
Sec. 332. - Eminent domain.
Through the use and power of eminent domain, the Authority shall have the right, power, privilege and authority to condemn real property, rights-of-way or easements for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act. Any such condemnation shall be conducted in accordance with the laws of this State.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 32)
Sec. 333. - Jurisdiction.
All property, the title to which shall vest in said Authority, shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the county wherein such property shall lie.
(1972 Ga. Laws, page 3645, § 33)
DIVISION 2. - INDUSTRIAL AUTHORITY[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— This constitutional amendment was specifically continued in force and effect as a part of the constitution of the state by 1987 Ga. Laws, page 3576.

Sec. 351. - [Created; membership.]
Article V, Section IX of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph which shall read as follows:
A.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Paulding County to be known as the Paulding County Industrial Building Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Paulding County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the "Authority";
B.
The Authority shall consist of six (6) members as follows: The Mayor of the City of Dallas, the Mayor of the City of Hiram, the President of the Paulding County Chamber of Commerce, the governing head of Paulding County, and two (2) members which shall be appointed by the governing head of Paulding County for a term of three (3) years, who shall be eligible for reappointment. In case of a vacancy for an unexpired term said governing Authority of Paulding County shall appoint such person to fill said vacancy. A majority of members shall constitute a quorum and a majority may act for the authority in any matter. No vacancy shall impair the power of the Authority to act.
C.
The property, obligations and the interest on the obligations of the Authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations and interest on the obligations of Paulding County.
D.
The powers of the Authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue certificates, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property and income as security therefor;
(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporation except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may not be members of the Authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by-laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the Authority;
(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Paulding County so as to relieve insofar as possible unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Paulding County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant, or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the Authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the Authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking.
(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter;
(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the Authority as herein stated.
E.
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Paulding County.
F.
The members of the Authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the Authority except for expenses actually incurred in carrying out the official business of said Authority.
G.
In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the Authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (1937 Ga. Laws, page 761) as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal, of the Authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise incumbered as security for any lawful debt of the Authority. The Authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the Authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of Paulding County to pay any such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of Paulding County.
H.
The Authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
I.
No bonds except refunding bonds shall be issued hereunder unless the Authority shall have found and declared that:
(1)
The undertaking for which the bonds are to be issued will increase employment in Paulding County.
(2)
The lessee or purchaser of the building or buildings involved will not by virtue of establishing operations in said County, reduce the number of employees employed by said lessee or purchaser elsewhere in the State of Georgia.
J.
No moneys derived by the Authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
K.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Paulding County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
L.
This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Paulding County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the Authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
M.
This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor and the first members of the Authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
N.
The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the Authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the Authority. The Authority shall be an instrumentality of Paulding County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said county. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the Authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits."
(1962 Ga. Laws, page 1176, § 1)
DIVISION 3. - PAULDING COUNTY FACILITIES AND TECHNOLOGY AUTHORITY[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Sec. 352. - [Created.]
To create the Paulding County Facilities and Technology Authority and to provide for the appointment of members of the authority and the general purpose of the authority; to define terms; to confer powers upon the authority; to authorize the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority payable from the revenues, tolls, fees, charges, and earnings of the authority, contract payments to the authority, and from other moneys pledged therefor and to authorize the collection and pledging of the revenues, tolls, fees, charges, earnings, and contract payments of the authority for the payment of such revenue bonds; to authorize the execution of resolutions and trust indentures to secure the payment of the revenue bonds of the authority and to define the rights of the holders of such obligations; to make the revenue bonds of the authority exempt from taxation; to fix and provide the venue and jurisdiction of actions relating to any provisions of this Act; to provide for the validation of bonds; to provide for the separate enactment of each provision of this Act; to provide for related matters; to provide for an effective date; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes. (House Bill 772)
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370)
Sec. 353. - [Short title.]
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Paulding County Facilities and Technology Authority Act."
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 1)
Sec. 354. - [Paulding County Facilities and Technology Authority.]
(a)
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Paulding County Facilities and Technology Authority," which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the state and a public corporation, and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of six members as follows: the chairperson of the Paulding County board of commissioners; one member recommended by the chairperson of the Paulding County board of commissioners; and four members to be recommended, one per commissioner, by each of the other members of the Paulding County board of commissioners. All members shall be appointed by the governing authority of Paulding County for terms of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment. In case of a vacancy for an unexpired term, the governing authority of Paulding County shall, in the same manner as the original appointment, appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term of office.
(c)
The governing authority of Paulding County may provide by resolution for compensation for the services of the members of the authority in such amounts as the governing authority may deem appropriate; provided, however, that such members shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
(d)
The members of the authority shall elect one of their number as chairperson and another as a vice chairperson. The members of the authority shall also elect a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority, and may also elect a treasurer, who need not be a member of the authority. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. If the secretary and treasurer are not members of the authority, such officers shall have no voting rights. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
(e)
Four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(f)
The general purposes of the authority shall be:
(1)
To engage in the marketing and leasing of real and personal property and the provision of technical facilities and services;
(2)
To encourage and promote the development of the property in and near the Paulding County courthouse and government complex and other such government facilities in Paulding County so as to promote these areas to quality business and development;
(3)
To make improvements to other county facilities or other county property for use as rental property or to market said property for sale and purchase;
(4)
To lease or sell county owned real property to qualified merchants for commercial or industrial use; and
(5)
To sell or lease capacity and services on county owned technology infrastructure, the income from which shall be used for the maintenance and expansion of the technology infrastructure and improvements in technology for the county government.
Property, facilities, and services may be made available to the authority for such purpose by the governing authority of Paulding County or may be acquired by the authority for such purpose.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 2)
Sec. 355. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Authority" means the Paulding County Facilities and Technology Authority created by this Act.
(2)
"Costs of the project" means and embraces the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for six months after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal agents' and legal expenses, plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incidental to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized; working capital; and all other costs necessary to acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and maintain the project.
(3)
"Project" means any real property, improved or unimproved; any personal property; and any technical facilities and services and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in particular means and includes the planning, design, acquisition, construction, and equipping of fiber optic broad band communication cables, sleeves, and systems for the distribution and sale of broad band communication services to users and consumers, including, but not limited to, the state, counties, and municipalities, within and outside the territorial boundaries of Paulding County, and additions and improvements to and extensions of such facilities and the operation and maintenance of same.
(4)
"Revenue Bond Law" means the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia (codified at O.C.G.A. Section 36-82-62 et seq., as amended), or any other similar law hereinafter enacted.
(5)
"Revenue bonds" means revenue bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to this Act.
(6)
"Self-liquidating" means any project which the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including but not limited to any contractual payments with governmental or private entities, and all properties used, leased, and sold in connection therewith, together with any grants, will be sufficient to pay the costs of operating, maintaining, and repairing the project and to pay the principal and interest on the revenue bonds or other obligations which may be issued for the purpose of paying the costs of the project.
(7)
"State" means the State of Georgia.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 3)
Sec. 356. - [Powers.]
The authority shall have the power:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, gift, condemnation, or otherwise, and to hold, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the authority, the authority being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act, except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act, and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the authority and to the owners of the property to be condemned, and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money is to be deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(5)
To execute contracts, leases, installment sale agreements, and other agreements and instruments necessary or convenient in connection with the acquisition, construction, addition, extension, improvement, equipping, operation, or maintenance of a project; and any and all persons, firms and corporations, and Paulding County, are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases, installment sale agreements, and other agreements or instruments with the authority upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable and as they are authorized by law;
(6)
To acquire, construct, add to, extend, improve, equip, hold, operate, maintain, lease, and dispose of projects;
(7)
To pay the costs of the project with the proceeds of revenue bonds or other obligations issued by the authority or from any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the state or any agency or instrumentality or other political subdivision thereof or from any other source whatsoever;
(8)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
(9)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the state or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the state or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
(10)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to issue revenue bonds, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(11)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, including the power to incur short-term debt and to approve, execute, and deliver appropriate evidence of any such indebtedness; and
(12)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 4)
Sec. 357. - [Revenue bonds.]
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the costs of the project and for the purpose of refunding revenue bonds or other obligations previously issued. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund hereby provided for such payment. The revenue bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution for the issuance of such revenue bonds.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 5)
Sec. 358. - [Same; form; denomination; registration; place of payment.]
The authority shall determine the form of the revenue bonds and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the revenue bonds. The revenue bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for registration and exchangeability privileges. The authority shall fix the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereon.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 6)
Sec. 359. - [Same; signatures; seal.]
All such revenue bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signature of the chairperson or vice chairperson of the authority and the attesting manual or facsimile signature of the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority, and the official seal of the authority shall be impressed or imprinted thereon. Any coupons attached thereto shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of the chairperson or vice chairperson and the secretary, assistant secretary, or secretary-treasurer of the authority. Any revenue bonds or coupons attached thereto may bear the manual or facsimile signature of such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such revenue bonds or coupons shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of issuance of such revenue bonds such person may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any revenue bond or any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such revenue bond, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if that person had remained in office until such delivery.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 7)
Sec. 360. - [Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.]
All revenue bonds shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the laws of the state. All revenue bonds, their transfer, and the income therefrom shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 8)
Sec. 361. - [Same; sale; price; proceeds.]
The authority may sell revenue bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be in the best interest of the authority. The proceeds derived from the sale of revenue bonds shall be used solely for the purpose or purposes provided in the resolutions and proceedings authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 9)
Sec. 362. - [Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.]
Prior to the preparation of any definitive revenue bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary revenue bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive revenue bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 10)
Sec. 363. - [Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.]
The authority may provide for the replacement of any revenue bonds or coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 11)
Sec. 364. - [Same; conditions precedent to issuance.]
The authority shall adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds. In the resolution, the authority shall determine that the project financed with the proceeds of the revenue bonds is self-liquidating. Revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority by a majority of its members.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 12)
Sec. 365. - [Credit not pledged.]
Revenue bonds shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Paulding County, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of the county, but such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act. The issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatsoever for payment of such revenue bonds or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such revenue bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, this Act shall not affect the ability of the authority and any political subdivision or municipality to enter into an intergovernmental contract pursuant to which the political subdivision or municipality agrees to pay amounts sufficient to pay operating charges and other costs of the authority or any project including, without limitation, the principal of and interest on revenue bonds in consideration for services or facilities of the authority.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 13)
Sec. 366. - [Trust indenture as security.]
In the discretion of the authority, any issuance of revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside the state. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of the revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition and construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 14)
Sec. 367. - [To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.]
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the authority shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the revenue bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes thereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 15)
Sec. 368. - [Sinking fund.]
The moneys received pursuant to an intergovernmental contract and the revenues, fees, tolls, charges, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such revenues, fees, tolls, fines, charges, and earnings were produced by a particular project for which revenue bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the authority as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of:
(1)
The interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due;
(2)
The principal or purchase price of such revenue bonds as the same shall fall due;
(3)
Any premium upon such revenue bonds as the same shall fall due;
(4)
The purchase of such revenue bonds in the open market; and
(5)
The necessary charges of the paying agent for paying principal and interest.
The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 16)
Sec. 369. - [Remedies of bondholders.]
Any holder of revenue bonds or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the revenue bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the state, including specifically but without limitation the Revenue Bond Law, or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the authority or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, fines, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 17)
Sec. 370. - [Validation.]
Revenue bonds and the security therefor shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the state; any institution, department, or other agency thereof; and any county, municipality, school district, or other political subdivision or authority of the state which has contracted with the authority for services or facilities relating to the project for which revenue bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated, and such defendant shall be required to show cause, if any exists, why such contract or contracts shall not be adjudicated as a part of the basis for the security for the payment of any such revenue bonds. The revenue bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such revenue bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority and all other defendants.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 18)
Sec. 371. - [Venue and jurisdiction.]
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Paulding County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 19)
Sec. 372. - [Interest of bondholders protected.]
While any of the revenue bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the authority or its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the authority to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such revenue bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the authority. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the authority and the holders of any such revenue bonds and, upon the issuance of such revenue bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such revenue bonds.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 20)
Sec. 373. - [Moneys received considered trust funds.]
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenue, income, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 21)
Sec. 374. - [Rates, charges, and revenues; use.]
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect revenues, tolls, fees, and charges for the services, facilities, and commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues, to issue revenue bonds or other types of obligations as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the costs of the project, and to pledge to the punctual payment of said revenue bonds or other obligations all or any part of the revenues.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 22)
Sec. 375. - [Rules, regulations, service policies, and procedures for operation of projects.]
It shall be the duty of the authority to prescribe or cause to be prescribed rules, regulations, service policies, and procedures for the operation of any project or projects constructed or acquired under the provisions of this Act. The authority may adopt bylaws.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 23)
Sec. 376. - [Tort immunity.]
To the extent permitted by law, the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as Paulding County; and the officers, agents, and employees of the authority when in the performance of the work of the authority shall have the same immunity and exemption from liability for torts and negligence as the officers, agents, and employees of Paulding County, when in the performance of their public duties or the work of the county.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 24)
Sec. 377. - [Tax-exempt status of the authority.]
The properties of the authority, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the state and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the authority shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any municipality, county, or the state and any political subdivision thereof.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 25)
Sec. 378. - [Effect on other governments.]
This Act shall not and does not in any way take from Paulding County, or any political subdivision or municipality the authority to own, operate, and maintain public facilities or to issue revenue bonds as provided by the Revenue Bond Law.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 26)
Sec. 379. - [Liberal construction of Act.]
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions and municipalities of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 27)
Sec. 380. - [Severability; effect of partial invalidity of Act.]
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 28)
Sec. 381. - [Effective date.]
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 29)
Sec. 382. - [Repeal.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4370, § 30)
DIVISION 4. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS AND REGISTRATION OF PAULDING COUNTY[7]

Footnotes:
--- (7) ---
Editor's note— Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Sec. 384. - [Created.]
To create a board of elections and registration for Paulding County and to provide for its powers and duties; to provide for definitions; to provide for the composition of the board and the selection and appointment of members; to provide for the qualification, terms, and removal of members; to provide for oaths and privileges; to provide for meetings, procedures, and vacancies; to relieve certain officers of powers and duties and to provide for the transfer of functions to the newly created board; to provide for certain expenditures of public funds; to provide for compensation of members of the board and personnel; to provide for offices and equipment; to provide for the board's performance of certain functions and duties for certain municipalities; to provide for related matters; to provide for submission for preclearance under Section 5 of the Federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended; to provide effective dates; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes. (House Bill 773)
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382)
Sec. 385. - [Board of Elections and Registration.]
Pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created the Board of Elections and Registration of Paulding County, hereinafter referred to as "the board." The board shall have the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the judge of the probate court of Paulding County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," and the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the board of registrars of Paulding County under Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 1)
Sec. 386. - [Terms.]
The terms "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," and "public office" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act, and the term "commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of Paulding County and "county" means Paulding County.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 2)
Sec. 387. - [Composition of board.]
(a)
The board shall be composed of five members who shall be appointed as provided in this section.
(b)
Three members of the board shall be appointed by the Paulding County board of commissioners. If a majority of the members of the Paulding County board of commissioners are affiliated with a political party, at least one of the three members so appointed shall be affiliated with a different political party.
(c)
One member of the board shall be appointed by majority vote of the Paulding County probate judge, clerk of superior court, sheriff, and tax commissioner.
(d)
One member shall be appointed by majority vote of the Paulding County legislative delegation in the General Assembly, which for this purpose shall consist of each member of the General Assembly whose legislative district includes any part of Paulding County.
(e)
All appointments to the board shall be promptly certified by the appointing authority to the clerk of the Superior Court of Paulding County.
(f)
The initial appointees to the board shall take office on July 1, 2007. Each initial member shall serve a term of office beginning on July 1, 2007, and ending on June 30, 2011. Thereafter, all members shall be appointed to serve four-year terms of office beginning July 1, 2011, and quadrennially thereafter.
(g)
The Paulding County board of commissioners shall designate one of its appointees to serve as chairperson of the board. Such chairperson shall preside over all meetings of the board and shall be entitled to vote on all matters coming before the board.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 3)
Sec. 388. - [Election supervisor shall generally direct and control the administration.]
There shall be an election supervisor who shall generally direct and control the administration of the affairs of the board pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board. The election supervisor shall not be a member of the board. The appointment of the supervisor shall be made by the board of commissioners, which will consider the recommendation of the board of elections and registration. The supervisor shall be appointed and removed by the board of commissioners in the same manner as department heads. The compensation of such election supervisor shall be established by the board of commissioners in the same manner as department heads. The election supervisor shall provide daily employee supervision, serve as staff support for the board, attend all meetings of the board, carry out the duties of voter registration and elections as required by law, and be a full-time employee of Paulding County.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 4)
Sec. 389. - [Membership.]
Each member of the board shall:
(1)
Be eligible to be reappointed to succeed such member;
(2)
Have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the governing authority of Paulding County and to the clerk of the superior court; and
(3)
Serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 5)
Sec. 390. - [Appointing authority.]
(a)
The appointing authority shall certify the appointment of each member of the board by filing a certificate with the clerk of the superior court no later than 30 days preceding the date upon which such members are to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act.
(b)
The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the superior court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 6)
Sec. 391. - [Vacancies in office.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any member before the expiration of his or her term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointing authority which is required under Section 3 of this Act to make the appointment to the office upon the expiration of the term shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term as provided for in Section 3 of this Act. If the vacancy in office is not filled within 60 days after it occurs, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term by an appointment by the chief judge of the Superior Court of Paulding County. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of such interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 7)
Sec. 392. - [Duties.]
(a)
The first members of the board under this Act shall be appointed as provided in this Act to take office on July 1, 2007. The board shall take no official action until all members have been certified to the clerk of the Superior Court of Paulding County.
(b)
Before entering upon the member's duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 8)
Sec. 393. - [Qualification.]
(a)
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member of the board during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member of the board shall be deemed vacant upon such member's qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
(b)
Members of the board must be residents of Paulding County and must have been registered voters in Paulding County for a period of at least one year prior to the date of appointment to the board.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 9)
Sec. 394. - [Full costs of any primary or election.]
The board shall have the authority to contract with any municipality or governmental authority located within Paulding County for the holding by the board of any primary or election to be conducted within such municipality or governmental authority. The full costs of any such election shall be paid for by the requesting municipality or governmental authority along with a fee established by the board to offset operational costs of the office of the Paulding County Board of Elections and Registration.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 10)
Sec. 395. - [Organization.]
(a)
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, elect from among its members a vice chairperson, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of its affairs; provided, however, that no such action shall conflict with state law.
(b)
Action and decision by the board shall be by a majority of the members of the board.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 11)
Sec. 396. - [Meetings.]
(a)
The board shall fix and establish, by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes, directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction. The board shall hold meetings at such place or places as may be designated for that purpose by the Paulding County board of commissioners. Any specially called meetings held pursuant to the bylaws adopted by the board shall be held only after notification of the time and place of the holding of such special meeting has been communicated in writing to the election supervisor to provide public notice of the meeting as required by law. All meetings of whatever kind of the board shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 14 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A.
(b)
The board shall maintain a written record of policy decisions amended to include additions or deletions. Such written records shall be made available for the public to review pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of the O.C.G.A.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 12)
Sec. 397. - [Compensation for the members.]
Compensation for the members of the board shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners of Paulding County. All amounts payable under this section shall be paid from the funds of Paulding County.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 13)
Sec. 398. - [Cost for salaries, expenses, and supplies.]
(a)
The board may employ, subject to funding by the Paulding County Board of Commissioners, additional clerical assistants as needed to efficiently carry out the duties and functions of the board on either an independent contract basis or as county employees entitled to all benefits as other county employees, to be determined by the board of commissioners. The compensation of all clerical assistants shall be established by the board of commissioners in the same manner as for other county employees. Any such assistants shall be at-will employees of the board of commissioners.
(b)
The board of commissioners, at their legislative discretion, shall provide suitable offices and equipment and funding sufficient to employ the staff and other employees as may be necessary.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 14)
Sec. 399. - [Poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 15)
Sec. 400. - [Submission.]
The Board of Commissioners of Paulding County shall cause, through its legal counsel, this Act to be submitted for preclearance under Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, within 45 days after the date on which this Act is approved by the Governor or otherwise becomes law without such approval.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 16)
Sec. 400.1. - [Effective.]
This Act shall become effective upon its approval by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval for purposes of making initial appointments to the board only. This Act shall become fully effective on July 1, 2007. Upon this Act becoming fully effective or upon such later date determined by the board of commissioners, the superintendent of elections of Paulding County and the board of registrars of Paulding County shall be relieved of all powers and duties to which the board succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver to the board all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities pertaining to such powers and duties. Nothing contained in this section is intended to prevent the following from taking place prior to July 1, 2007: appointment of members of the board; the hiring of an election supervisor; the hiring of clerical staff; or any necessary training for the members of the board, the election supervisor, and clerical assistants.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 17)
Sec. 400.2. - [Conflict.]
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are repealed.
(2007 Ga. Laws, page 4382, § 18)
