Appendix A - FEE SCHEDULE
EXPAND
Code Section Description Fee
Chapter 4—Alcoholic Beverages
4-25(c) and
4-26 Off-premises retail package malt beverage license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $100.00
Off-premises retail package wine license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $200.00
Off-premises retail package malt beverage and wine license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $300.00
Off-premises retail package liquor/distilled spirits license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $1,000.00
On-premises consumption of liquor/distilled spirits license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $500.00
On-premises consumption malt beverages, and wine license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $500.00
On-premises consumption malt beverages, wine, and liquor/distilled spirits license fee for the calendar year, due and payable in advance by January 1 of each year. $750.00
4-27(a)(9) and (e) Alcoholic beverage consumption license application fee Not specified
Chapter 6—Amusements
6-70 Adult entertainment business license fee Not specified
6-74 Adult entertainment business license application fee Not specified
6-78 Adult entertainment employment license application fee Not specified
6-79 Adult entertainment business license renewal fee Not specified
6-81 Adult entertainment business license change of location fee Not specified
Chapter 10—Buildings and Building Regulations
10-3(a) Building permit fees Not specified
10-3(d) Plan-checking fee One-half the building permit fee
10-4 Where work for which a permit is required is started prior to obtaining permit, the required fees shall be doubled. N/A
Chapter 12—Business Regulations
12-20 Non-prorated, nonrefundable administrative fee required on all occupation tax accounts for the initial registration, annual renewal or reopening of such accounts. Not specified
12-22(1) Annual nonrefundable regulatory fee for occupations or businesses listed in category A, including: Not specified
a. Auto and motorcycle racing;
b. Boxing and wrestling promoters;
c. Carnivals or circuses;
d. Escort services;
e. Fortunetellers;
f. Handwriting analysts;
g. Hypnotists;
h. Massage parlors;
i. Peddlers; and
j. Tattoo artists.
12-22(2) Annual nonrefundable regulatory fee for occupations or businesses listed in category B, including: Not specified
a. Building and construction contractors, subcontractors and workers;
b. Boardinghouses;
c. Burglar and fire alarm installers;
d. Businesses which provide appearance bonds;
e. Dealers in precious metals;
f. Electricians or electrical contractors;
g. Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning contractors;
h. Hotels and motels;
i. Modeling agencies;
j. Plumbers or plumbing contractors;
k. Restaurants or food service businesses or establishments;
l. Scrap metal processors;
m. Shooting galleries and firearm ranges;
n. Swimming pool contractors or service companies;
o. Taxicab and limousine operators; and
p. Any other business or practitioner not specifically covered by the occupational tax ordinance which may, in the judgement of city officials, require local government regulation.
12-22(3) Annual nonrefundable regulatory fee for occupations or businesses listed in category C, including: Not specified
a. Firearms dealers;
b. Health clubs, gyms and spas;
c. Pawnbrokers;
d. Stone or monument companies;
e. Welding services or companies; and
f. Special home occupations, such as mail and online sales occupations and activities.
12-22(4) Annual nonrefundable regulatory fee for occupations or businesses listed in category D, including: Not specified
a. Nursing and personal care homes or services;
b. Parking lots;
c. Lawn care services or companies;
d. Locksmiths; and
e. Stump grinders.
12-22(5) Annual nonrefundable regulatory fee for occupations or businesses listed in category E, including: Not specified
a. Newspaper vending boxes.
12-23 Occupation tax based upon number of employees in the state levied upon businesses and practitioners of professions and occupations with one or more locations or offices within the corporate limits of the city and upon out-of-state businesses with no location within the city but with employees or agents engaging in substantial efforts to solicit business or serve customers or clients in the state. Not specified
12-25 Practitioners of professions and occupations as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 48-13-9(c) shall pay the occupation tax as set forth in section 12-23 or shall pay an occupation tax of $250.00 per practitioner. The practitioner shall elect a method of taxation. $250.00
12-53 Annual license fee upon every insurance company engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city. Not specified
Additional annual license fee upon every insurance company engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city in such amount for each separate business location in excess of one operated and maintained by any such company within the corporate limits. Not specified
12-54 License fee upon each insurance company for each separate business location not otherwise subject to a license fee under section 12-53, which company is operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and which, in connection with the loans or sales involving term financing, offers, solicits, or takes applications for insurance through a licensed agent of the insurance company for insurance. Not specified
12-55 Annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which a life insurance business is conducted, and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by either section 12-53 or 12-54, for each such location within the city. Not specified
Chapter 20—Emergency Services
20-23 User fee for any person or business which maintains a security or fire alarm system which has a direct connection to an alarm display panel located in the communications center of either the fire or police department. Not specified (per month)
Chapter 22—Environment
22-23(b)(3) Land disturbing activity permit fee. $25.00 per acre or fraction thereof in the project area.
22-23(b)(4) In addition, fees will also be assessed pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-5-23(5)(a), provided that such fees shall not exceed $80.00 per acre of land disturbing activity, and these fees shall be calculated and paid by the primary permittee as defined in the state general permit for each acre of land disturbing activity included in the planned development or each phase of development. In a jurisdiction that is certified pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 12-7-8(a), half of such fees levied shall be submitted to the division; except that any and all fees due from an entity which is required to give notice pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10) of O.C.G.A. § 12-7-17 shall be submitted in full to the division, regardless of the existence of a local issuing authority in the jurisdiction.
Chapter 40—Solid Waste
40-30 Sanitary charge Not specified (per month)
40-40 Organic yard waste in excess of one-half of a truckload Not specified (per load or partial truckload)
Chapter 42—Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places
42-1(b) Permit fee for moving a building or structure on, over, across or through public streets and places. Not specified
42-62 Yard sale permit fee Not specified
Chapter 46—Taxation
46-28(b) Levy administration fee Not specified
46-28(c) In addition to the levy administration fee, after levy but prior to the sale, the marshal shall collect his actual cost for advertising the sale, postage and service fees actually incurred, and any attorney's fees incurred in examination of title to property, plus a commission for conducting the sale, not to exceed eight percent on sums of $50.00 or less, six percent on sums above $50.00 up to $550.00, and three percent on all sums exceeding $550.00.
Chapter 50—Utilities
50-2 Water and sewer rates and charges Not specified
50-29(b) Exemption inspection and issuance fee Not specified
Chapter 54—Zoning
54-25 Certificate of occupancy fee Not specified
