Chapter 40 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 40-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Construction and demolition waste (C&D waste) means waste building material and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures. Such wastes include, but are not limited to, wood, brick, metal, concrete, wall board, paper, cardboard, inert waste, landfill material, and other nonputrescible wastes which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
Household garbage (HHG) orgarbage means all waste accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that result from the preparation, use, cooking of or dealing in the storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits, vegetables or other foods and shall include the containers and wrappings used for the storage of all such substances. The term "household garbage" or "garbage" may also include such other items as are normally used and disposed of by a residence or business, in accordance with the state rules of solid waste management, Ga. Comp. Rules and Regs. ch. 391-3-4.
Residence or residential unit means any premises occupied and used by a person as a separate household or living quarters.
Rubbish means all disposable matter other than that included within the terms "construction and demolition waste," "household garbage," "garbage," "tires," and "yard waste" or "organic yard waste."
Tires or old tires means rubber or synthetic rubber pneumatic tires which have been removed from passenger and commercial vehicles, motorized bikes, trailers, tractors and farm implements, and other utility conveyances which have been worn or damaged to a point where they are of no continued use for the purpose for which they were originally intended.
Yard waste or organic yard waste means leaves, brush, grass, clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals and vegetative matter resulting from landscape maintenance other than commercial, agricultural, mining or silvicultural operations.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-1; Code 1996, § 70-1)
Secs. 40-2—40-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL

Sec. 40-21. - Applicability of article.
The provisions of this article shall apply separately to each residential or commercial unit of the city.
(Code 1996, § 70-31)
Sec. 40-22. - Penalty for violation of article.
In addition to other penalties provided by this Code, the sanitation department of the city or the city's duly approved and licensed independent contractors shall decline to render sanitation services to the residential unit of such person until the residential unit is in complete compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1996, § 70-32)
Sec. 40-23. - Containers.
The occupants of each residential, commercial, or other unit shall utilize the garbage container furnished by the city or the city's duly approved and licensed independent garbage collection contractor. Each user shall be responsible for the safekeeping of the container, and upon its disappearance, shall be required to replace the same at the expense of the residential, commercial, or other user. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to the contents of, indiscriminately scatter, disperse the contents of, or otherwise vandalize any container provided either by the city or by a property owner for the dumping of household garbage or other waste materials.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-3; Code 1996, § 70-33)
Sec. 40-24. - Prerequisite for collection.
The sanitation department of the city, or the city's duly approved and licensed independent contractor, shall not collect any household garbage unless the garbage is stored in a proper container as described in this article and shall not collect any rubbish or yard waste unless the rubbish or yard waste is deposited as described in this article.
(Code 1996, § 70-34)
Sec. 40-25. - Garbage, trash and refuse; accumulation.
No person who shall own or occupy premises within the city shall permit trash, garbage to accumulate, collect or remain on such premises, except during periods between city sanitation department pickups. No person who shall own or occupy premises where collection is required shall refuse collection or otherwise fail to comply with the requirements of this article.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-7; Code 1996, § 70-35)
Sec. 40-26. - Garbage, trash and refuse; scattering.
No person who shall own or occupy premises in the city shall permit garbage, trash or refuse to be scattered from such premises into the public streets or alleys of the city.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-8; Code 1996, § 70-36)
Sec. 40-27. - Placement of containers for collection.
All household garbage roll-out containers shall be placed at curbside by 8:00 a.m. on the day of the week selected as pickup day for a particular address, and removed from the curb after collection on that same day. No garbage, debris, garbage containers, or other material shall be placed so that it creates an obstruction of the streets and/or sidewalks within the city.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-4; Code 1996, § 70-37)
Sec. 40-28. - Classification of premises.
Each business and commercial premises within the city shall be assigned a commercial classification by the city based on the average number of cubic yards of garbage, trash and refuse collected from such premises within the three preceding months.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-11; Code 1996, § 70-38)
Sec. 40-29. - Collection schedule.
Garbage, trash, and refuse shall be collected from the various premises in the city by the proper department of the city as follows:
(1)
Collections from residential units shall be made not less than once weekly.
(2)
Collections from businesses or commercial premises shall be made not less than once weekly or in conformity with such schedule as established from time to time by the mayor and council for specific businesses.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-12; Code 1996, § 70-39)
Sec. 40-30. - Sanitary charge assessed.
A monthly sanitary charge, as established by the mayor and council, is hereby assessed against the owner or occupant of every improved premises within the city for which the occupant shall be liable for payment.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-13; Code 1996, § 70-40)
Sec. 40-31. - Sanitary charge billing.
(a)
The monthly sanitary charge for each premises to which the city supplies water service shall be billed and collected in the same manner and at the same time as water or sewer service is billed and collected.
(b)
The monthly sanitary charge for each premises to which the city does not supply water or sewer service shall be billed and collected monthly in advance by the tenth day of each month and shall be payable by the occupant or owner at the city clerk's office at the city hall.
(c)
In all instances when a residential unit is occupied by more than one single-family unit and is served by a single water meter, the sanitary charges applicable to the residential premises at such location shall all be billed to the person in whose name the water meter is registered at the office of the city clerk, the sanitary charge to be included thereon for each family unit on the premises.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-14; Code 1996, § 70-41)
Sec. 40-32. - Sanitary charge; effect of failure to pay.
(a)
Execution, levy and sale authorized. Should any person liable for payment of the sanitary charges hereby imposed fail to pay the same within ten days after having been billed therefor, the city clerk is authorized to issue an execution therefor against such person and shall deliver such execution to the city marshal for a levy and sale as provided by law.
(b)
Discontinuance of city services. Any person failing for any reason or refusing to pay the monthly sanitary charge provided for in this article after having been duly billed for such charge by the city shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this article, and all sanitary services and water services provided by the city to the premises for which the monthly charges are past due shall be terminated by the city in accordance with the provisions for termination of water service.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-15; Code 1996, § 70-42)
Sec. 40-33. - Recycling newspapers; other paper waste.
Residents are encouraged to recycle newspapers and all other acceptable paper waste by placing same in the drop-off facilities designated within the city. More than seven days' accumulation of newspapers, or more than five volumes of magazines or other printed matter, shall not be collected unless securely fastened in bundles weighing not more than 50 pounds and deposited at curbside.
(Code 1996, § 70-43)
Sec. 40-34. - Recycling cardboard; commercial establishments.
All commercial business establishments and other producers of significant numbers, or amounts of cardboard boxes or other cardboard or corrugated materials, shall separate and collect all clean unwaxed cardboard wastes and deposit such material in a designated bin or container so that the material can be picked up by the city's sanitation department, or duly authorized and approved independent contractor, for recycling and reuse.
(Code 1996, § 70-44)
Sec. 40-35. - Recycling cardboard; residential households.
Residential households are encouraged to recycle cardboard and other corrugated materials by depositing same into a commercial business's bin, or by depositing the material in the cardboard recycling bin at the city utility department's maintenance complex.
(Code 1996, § 70-45)
Sec. 40-36. - Rubbish.
Rubbish shall be collected by the city sanitation department, provided the accumulation thereof is not in violation of any other section of this article, and provided the rubbish is separated in piles according to type and category as may be established by rules promulgated by the city sanitation department from time to time, or by the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-6; Code 1996, § 70-46)
Sec. 40-37. - Construction and demolition waste.
Construction and demolition waste, such as lumber, plaster, roofing, concrete, bricks, blocks, or similar materials resulting from construction, repair, demolition, or improvement of buildings, is the responsibility of the property owner or contractor and will not be removed by the city sanitation department. It shall be unlawful for the owner of such waste materials, or any other person, to place such materials on the streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way of the city.
(Code 1984, § 5-2-6; Code 1996, § 70-47)
Sec. 40-38. - Dirt, rocks and stumps.
Dirt, rocks and stumps will not be removed by the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of such materials, or any other person, to place such materials on the streets or sidewalks of the city.
(Code 1996, § 70-48)
Sec. 40-39. - Appliances and furniture.
Appliances and furniture, such as refrigerators, water heaters, stoves, sinks, televisions, chairs, couches and the like, exceeding 75 pounds in weight, shall not be collected by the city sanitation department. It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person to cause such items to be placed upon the streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way of the city.
(Code 1996, § 70-49)
Sec. 40-40. - Trees and parts of trees; shrubbery clippings; other matter.
(a)
Trees, parts of trees, shrubbery clippings or any like matter exceeding six inches in diameter or six feet in length shall not be collected by the city sanitation department. It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person, to cause such materials to be placed upon the streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way of the city.
(b)
Trees, parts of trees, shrubbery clippings or any like matter not exceeding six inches in diameter and not exceeding six feet in length, lawn clippings and other organic yard waste generated by normal yard maintenance by the resident or property owner will be collected, provided the same is placed at curbside in a separate pile not containing any other class of waste, and provided the amount put out at any one time does not exceed one-half of a truckload. Any amount deposited at curbside in excess of one-half of a truckload will be removed by the sanitation department upon the special request of the property owner, for a fee, as established by the mayor and council, for each load or partial truckload.
(c)
Whenever the organic waste mentioned in subsection (b) of this section is generated by a commercial contractor or any individual who is providing his services for pay or gain in any fashion, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner or contractor or person providing his services for pay or gain to collect and properly dispose of any organic waste produced in the accomplishment of the task for which his services have been engaged.
(Code 1996, § 70-50)
State Law reference— Yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2.
Sec. 40-41. - Materials not to be deposited.
It shall be unlawful to place in any garbage or rubbish container any acid, or other dangerous liquids, or other nonhazardous liquids in containers of more than one gallon, or any substance which is prohibited or which could cause injury to the persons engaged in removing such containers.
(Code 1996, § 70-51)
Sec. 40-42. - Tires.
(a)
Tires are the responsibility of the owner; the city sanitation department will not collect and dispose of them. It shall be unlawful for the owner thereof, or any other person, to cause the same to be placed upon the streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way of the city, or upon the property of another person. Tires shall not be allowed to collect or accumulate out from under permanent cover upon the property of any owner in such manner that, in the judgment of the chief of police, the accumulation thereof may be a menace to public health, either by creating a refuge for vermin, rodents, snakes or other varmints, or as a breeding place for mosquitoes or other similar insects.
(b)
Unless otherwise provided by law, the violation of this section shall be punished by a fine in the amount of $50.00 for the first improperly disposed of tire, and $100.00 each for each additional improperly disposed of tire up to a maximum penalty provided by law.
(Code 1996, § 70-52; Ord. of 3-2-2009, § 70-52)
Secs. 40-43—40-72. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - LITTER CONTROL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249.

Sec. 40-73. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Litter means all discarded sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, waste material, tin or aluminum cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris, dead animals, or other discarded materials of every kind and description.
Public or private property means the right-of-way of any road or highway; any body of water or watercourse or the shores thereof; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and any vacant areas, commercial, industrial, residential or farm properties, timberlands, or forests.
(Code 1996, § 70-76)
Sec. 40-74. - Dumping or depositing of litter.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw, leave or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public or private property in this city, or any waters in this city, unless the litter is discarded in accordance with the requirements of this article, or otherwise placed into a litter receptacle or container installed or placed on such property and specifically designated for the use of the general public. The provisions of this subsection shall not be read or construed to prohibit the owner or renter of any private property, nor any person acting with the consent of such owner or renter, from dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter in any private receptacle or container maintained by the owner or renter of such private property for the sole and exclusive use of the household or business of such owner or renter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, throw or leave, or to cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any private property in this city, in any litter receptacle thereon, or any waters in this city, unless the person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property or such person has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in such lawful possession.
(Code 1996, § 70-78)
Sec. 40-75. - Prima facie evidence; rebuttable presumption.
(a)
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance in violation of section 40-74, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of section 40-74 is discovered to contain any articles, including, but not limited to, letters, bills, publications, or other writings, which display the name of a person thereon in such a manner as to indicate that the articles belong or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated section 40-74.
(Code 1996, § 70-79)
