Chapter 20 - EMERGENCY SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 20-1—20-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ALARM SYSTEMS

Sec. 20-19. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alarm system means an assembly of equipment and/or devices designed and arranged to detect and signal an unauthorized intrusion into premises or to signal a fire, emergency, including, but not limited to, an attempted burglary or robbery on protected premises, and, with respect to such signal, law enforcement or emergency personnel are expected to respond.
Automatic dialing device means any device connected to an alarm system which automatically sends a prerecorded message or coded signal indicating the activation of the alarm system to a predetermined location.
Calendar year means the period of time from January 1 through December 31.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system by other than a forced entry or attempted forced entry to the premises and at a time when no fire or other emergency, including, but not limited to, a burglary or robbery, is being committed or attempted on the premises.
Public safety officers means both fire and police officers.
Response means the dispatch of law enforcement or emergency personnel to the premises where an alarm system has been activated.
(Code 1996, § 38-31)
Sec. 20-20. - City exempt from compliance with article.
The city shall be exempt from compliance with this article for alarm systems installed in city-owned facilities within the boundaries of the city.
(Code 1996, § 38-32)
Sec. 20-21. - Prohibited acts.
(a)
It is unlawful for anyone to activate any fire or security alarm system for the purpose of summoning public safety officers except in the event of an actual fire or an actual or attempted burglary or robbery or other unauthorized intrusion into premises.
(b)
It is unlawful for anyone to notify the departments of public safety of an activated fire or security alarm system while having knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other malfunction of the alarm system or by maintenance or service to the alarm system and/or to fail at the same time to notify the police or fire department of such apparent malfunction or repair.
(c)
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly communicate any false information or to make calls of a harassing, obscene, or unnecessary nature to any emergency service provider agency within the city utilizing either the E911 Emergency Response System or by the use of regular telephone, cellular telephone, or two-way radio communication systems.
(Code 1996, § 38-33; Ord. of 1-4-2000)
Sec. 20-22. - False alarm fines.
(a)
For a response to any false alarm, the municipal court shall fine and collect such fines as follows from the person or business having and/or maintaining an alarm system on the premises owned or occupied by such person:
(1)
For a first response to premises at which no other false alarm has occurred within a calendar year, there shall be no penalty.
(2)
The second false alarm in a calendar year is billed at $100.00.
(3)
The third false alarm in a calendar year is billed at $200.00.
(4)
The fourth through sixth false alarms in a calendar year are billed at $300.00 per event not to exceed $500.00 per calendar day.
(b)
The person having or maintaining such fire or security alarm shall, within three working days after notice to do so, make a written report to the chief of the responding public safety department, and if applicable, on prescribed forms setting forth the cause of such false alarm, the corrective action taken, whether such alarm has been inspected by an authorized service person, and such other information as may be required to determine the cause of such false alarm and necessary corrective action. Provision of this information is the sole responsibility of the offender.
(Code 1996, § 38-34)
Sec. 20-23. - User fees.
Any person or business which maintains a security alarm system or fire alarm system which has a direct connection to an alarm display panel located in the communications center of either the fire or police department shall be charged a fee per month, as established by the mayor and council, for such connection.
(Code 1996, § 38-35)
Sec. 20-24. - Requirements for owners of businesses, residences or structures.
The owner of each business, residence, or structure equipped with a fire or security alarm system must provide the fire or police department or his alarm company with a minimum of three emergency telephone numbers of persons who can be contacted in the case of an emergency or malfunction of the system. Listed persons must be able to enter the business, residence, or structure and secure the system within 30 minutes of its reported failure. These names and numbers shall also be posted in a conspicuous location on the premises where an independent alarm is located.
(Code 1996, § 38-36)
