Chapter 34 - NUISANCES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Nuisances, O.C.G.A. § 41-1-1 et seq.; jurisdiction of municipal court or magistrate court to abate nuisance, O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Purpose.
In order to eliminate unsightly, unhealthy or dangerous situations, and in order to protect property values and/or public health, and to enhance the beauty of the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to own, rent, lease or be in the possession of any premises, dwelling unit or other structure, place or vacant lot wherein the property is permitted to deteriorate in appearance or condition so as to be degrading to the surrounding premises, or be a threat to the public health.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-6; Code 1996, § 42-31; Ord. of 5-7-1996(2), § 11-1-9(a))
Sec. 34-2. - Conditions declared as nuisances.
The following conditions may be declared to be nuisances:
(1)
Stagnant water on a premises;
(2)
Any dead or decaying matter, weeds, vegetation or any fruit, vegetable, animal or rodent, upon a premises, which is odorous or capable of causing disease or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(3)
The growth or maintenance of tall grass, weeds and bushes, and other undergrowth on the premises;
(4)
The accumulation or maintenance of trash and debris of any type, dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, nonmotorized vehicles or old or discarded tires on the premises;
(5)
The generation of smoke or fumes in sufficient amount to cause odor or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city;
(6)
The pollution of public water or the injection of matter into the sewage system which would be damaging thereto;
(7)
Maintaining a dangerous or diseased animal or fowl;
(8)
Obstruction of a public street, highway or sidewalk without a permit;
(9)
Loud or unusual noises which are detrimental or annoying to the public, including, without limitation, unusual loud disturbances in or around churches or multiple-family complexes, such as loud music and other activities in swimming pool and clubhouse areas;
(10)
All walls, trees and buildings that may endanger persons or property;
(11)
Any business or building where illegal activities are habitually and commonly conducted in such a manner as to reasonably suggest that the owner or operator of the business or building was aware of the illegal activities and failed to reasonably attempt to prevent those activities;
(12)
Unused iceboxes, refrigerators and the like unless the doors, latches or locks are removed;
(13)
Any trees, shrubbery or other plants or parts thereof, which obstruct clear, safe vision on roadways and intersections of the city; and
(14)
Any other condition constituting a nuisance under state law.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-1; Code 1996, § 42-32; Ord. of 5-7-1996(2), § 11-1-9(b))
Sec. 34-3. - Jurisdiction of municipal court to try and punish.
The municipal court shall have full jurisdiction to try and dispose of all questions of nuisance affecting the public health or welfare, and shall also have jurisdiction to try and, upon conviction, to punish persons failing to abate nuisances, as prescribed in section 1-11.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-2; Code 1996, § 42-33)
Sec. 34-4. - Notice to offenders; service; failure to comply; bringing of charges.
Should the city manager, or his designee, determine that any person is violating the terms of this chapter, the city manager, or his designee, shall give the offending party 15 days' notice within which to eliminate the unsightly, unhealthy or dangerous situation. This notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the owner and occupant of the premises. If the occupant is not the owner, then the owner shall also be notified. The service or notice may be made either in person or by mail. Should the person to whom the notice is directed fail to comply with the request made therein within the 15-day period, the city manager, in cooperation with the city attorney, shall be authorized to proceed with the bringing of charges for the violation, pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 41-2-2 and 41-2-5. Each day the conditions continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-3; Code 1996, § 42-34; Ord. of 5-7-1996(2), § 11-1-9(c))
Sec. 34-5. - Abatement following conviction; liability for costs; lien; enforcement.
Pursuant to the judgment of the municipal court, the city may, at its option, proceed to remedy the unsightly, unhealthy or dangerous situation, and accomplish the necessary work. The owner or occupant, or both, shall be liable for the actual cost of such work, and the actual cost of such work shall be assessed against the property owner upon whose premises the work is done, and if the bill for such charges remains unpaid for 30 days after it has been rendered, such cost shall become a lien upon the premises, enforceable in the same manner as provided for the collection of unpaid taxes.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-4; Code 1996, § 42-35; Ord. of 5-7-1996(2), § 11-1-9(d))
Sec. 34-6. - Nuisance per se; exception; summary abatement.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the mayor from summarily and, without a notice, ordering the abatement of any nuisance that is a nuisance per se in the law, or where the case is an urgent one and the health and safety of the public or a portion thereof is in imminent danger.
(Code 1984, § 11-2-5; Code 1996, § 42-37)
Secs. 34-7—34-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide by ordinance for removal and disposal of junked vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4.

Sec. 34-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned vehicle means a machine designed to be propelled by an internal combustion engine, or by an electric motor, manufactured for the transporting of persons or property, including, without limitation, automobiles, trucks, truck trailers, motorized carts, motorcycles, mopeds, scooters and tractors, which is in an inoperative state because of being wrecked, junked, dismantled, unused or discarded. In instances where a machine is subject to this article, and is required to have a valid license issued by the state, or any other state, for operation on the public streets of this state, the absence of the required evidence of a valid and current license displayed on the machine shall constitute, for the purposes of this article, a prima facie showing that the machine is in an inoperative state.
Enclosure means a structure constructed or manufactured in a manner so as to preclude any view of any portion of the interior thereof from any public street or sidewalk. For the purposes of this article, a custom vehicle cover, specifically designed, manufactured, created or constructed to provide, for the life of the product, permanent protection for a motorized vehicle from the adverse effects of the weather, shall be deemed to be an enclosure; provided, however, that such definition shall not be deemed to include tarpaulins and other similar products which are not specifically designed, manufactured, created or constructed to provide protection solely for a motor vehicle from the adverse effects of the weather, and are ordinarily and customarily used only to provide temporary protection from such adverse effects.
Residential property means any real property located within the city designated under the zoning ordinances and maps as residential zoning districts, or any real properties located within the city which are primarily utilized to provide living quarters for one or more individuals.
Storage means the parking or leaving of an abandoned vehicle for a period of time in excess of five consecutive days.
(Code 1996, § 42-56)
Sec. 34-32. - Storage on residential property.
(a)
No person in charge or control of any residential property located within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall cause or allow any abandoned vehicle to be or remain in storage in or on the front yard area of such residential property unless the abandoned vehicle is wholly contained in an enclosure. The front yard shall be determined as the portion of any lot designated as being within the required front yard setback or building line as determined by the city's zoning regulations.
(b)
No person in charge or control of any residential property located within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall cause or allow any abandoned vehicle to be or remain in storage in or on the side yard area or rear yard area of such residential property unless the abandoned vehicle is wholly contained in an enclosure. The side and rear yard shall be determined as the portion of any lot designated as being within the required side or rear setback or building line as determined by the city's zoning regulations.
(Code 1996, § 42-58)
Sec. 34-33. - Declaration of nuisance.
(a)
Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4, the mayor and council of the city has concluded that any abandoned vehicle kept or maintained in violation of the provisions of section 34-32 constitutes a health hazard or unsightly nuisance, and any person responsible for creating or permitting the continuance of such a nuisance shall have ten days from the date of written notice of such nuisance to either remove the abandoned vehicle from the residential property or to provide such storage or maintenance thereon as will effectuate compliance with the directives thereof. If the person either fails or refuses to remove the abandoned vehicle from the residential property, or to bring the abandoned vehicle in compliance with the directives of section 34-32, within the ten-day period, then the continued presence of the abandoned vehicle on the property shall constitute misdemeanor. Any violation of section 34-32 not cured within the notice period may be abated pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 40-2-5 and section 34-34.
(b)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-60-4, any abandoned vehicle kept or maintained in storage on private property within the city, whether the property be used for residential, commercial, agricultural or industrial purposes, and excepting only a junkyard complying with the laws of this state, where the storage of the abandoned vehicle constitutes a health hazard or unsightly nuisance shall be subject to the abatement proceedings provided in section 34-34, after the notice and ten-day cure period have been provided as set forth in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1996, § 42-59)
Sec. 34-34. - Proceeding for nuisance abatement.
(a)
As provided in O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, the jurisdiction for the abatement of any nuisance arising out of the existence of an abandoned vehicle located on private property within the city shall be vested in the municipal court. The grant of jurisdiction made in this section is not intended, and shall not be construed to be, a grant to exclude or limit the jurisdiction of any other court of this state vested by the law of this state with jurisdiction over such proceedings.
(b)
Any proceeding to abate a nuisance existing or resulting from an abandoned vehicle in storage on private property within the city shall be commenced by the chief of police of the city in the name and on the behalf of the city, or by a private citizen thereof, by the filing of a petition with the municipal court seeking the abatement thereof. The petition shall identify the property upon which the abandoned vehicle is being maintained, state the name of the person in control or possession of the real property, together with a description of the abandoned vehicle alleged to constitute such nuisance, and shall provide sufficient facts so as to inform the court as to the nature of such nuisance. If, upon the filing of such petition, the judge of the court concludes that sufficient facts are alleged to require further inquiry and proceedings as to the existence of a nuisance, an order shall be entered by the court setting a hearing date for the adjudication of the issues raised in the petition.
(c)
The petition to abate the nuisance, together with a copy of the order of the court for hearing thereon, shall be served on the person in possession or control of the real property upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist at least ten days prior to the scheduled hearing date, either personally or by certified or registered mail with return receipt requested. If either the identity or location of such person is unknown, or for whatever reason such person cannot be located for such service, a copy of the petition and the order shall be conspicuously affixed to the abandoned vehicle in a manner so as to provide anyone in its vicinity with notice of the presence of such petition and order.
(d)
At the scheduled hearing, the court shall hear the pertinent evidence as to the facts and circumstances surrounding the maintenance of the abandoned vehicle and shall allow the person in possession or control of the real property to present any relevant and pertinent evidence as to why same does not constitute a nuisance.
(e)
If after hearing the evidence presented at the hearing the court concludes that a nuisance, within the meaning of section 34-33, exists, the court shall enter an order requiring and directing that the abandoned vehicle be removed from the corporate limits of the city within ten days of the date of the order. A copy of the order requiring the abatement of the nuisance shall be served on the person in possession or control of the real property upon which the nuisance is alleged to exist, either personally or by certified or registered mail with return receipt requested. If either the identity or location of such person is unknown, or for whatever reason the person cannot be located for the purposes of such service, a copy of the order shall be conspicuously affixed to the abandoned vehicle in a manner so as to provide anyone in its vicinity with notice of the presence of the order.
(f)
If the person in control or possession of the property upon which the abandoned vehicle exists fails to remove the abandoned vehicle within the ten-day period specified by the court for the abatement of the nuisance, then and in such event the city shall remove, or cause to be removed, the abandoned vehicle from the municipal limits of the city for disposal in such a manner as will terminate the characteristics thereof which resulted in same being found to be a nuisance. The city, in the pursuit of its duties to dispose of the abandoned vehicle, shall be authorized to sell the abandoned vehicle for junk or metal salvage, and any consideration received for such sale shall be retained by the city to offset the costs and expenses incurred in the abatement of the nuisance.
(Code 1996, § 42-60)
Secs. 34-35—34-56. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - NOISE CONTROL[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Limits on sound volume produced by a radio, tape player or other mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within a motor vehicle, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-14; sale of muffler which causes excessive noise prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 40-8-71(c).

Sec. 34-57. - Loud and unnecessary noises.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others in the city. The chief of police, or his designee, may issue a citation for any violation of this article.
(Code 1984, § 11-1-4(a); Code 1996, § 42-121)
Sec. 34-58. - Exemptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or be enforced against:
(1)
Any vehicle of the city while engaged in necessary public business;
(2)
Excavations or repairs of streets by or on behalf of the city, county or state at night when public welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the day; or
(3)
The reasonable use of amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in character, if permission has been obtained from the mayor and council.
(Code 1984, § 11-1-4(b); Code 1996, § 42-122)
Sec. 34-59. - Certain acts deemed prohibited noises.
The following acts, among others, shall constitute a violation of section 34-57, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
(1)
Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place in the city, except as a danger warning; the creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of any such signaling device and the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period of time; the use of any signaling device, except a police whistle or one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is held up for any reason.
(2)
Radios, phonographs and other machines which produce or reproduce sound. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, cassette player, CD player, or other machine or device for the production or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or pedestrians within any area of the city, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who is in the room, vehicle, place or chamber in which such machine or device is operated, and who is a voluntary listener thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, tape recorder, cassette player, CD player, machine or device in such manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure, place or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(3)
Loudspeakers and amplifiers for advertising. The playing, using or operating, or permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to any building or structure without a special permit from the city clerk or governing authority. Announcements over loudspeakers can only be made by the announcer in person and without the aid of any mechanical device.
(4)
Yelling and shouting. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
(5)
Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which will disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity by making loud, continual or frequent noise.
(6)
Steam whistle. The blowing of any train whistle or steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger or upon request of proper city authorities.
(7)
Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(8)
Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
(9)
Loading, unloading and opening boxes. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(10)
Construction or repairing of buildings. The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except on urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the city building official, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed by the mayor and council for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the council determines that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and further determines that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, the council may grant permission for such work to be done from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., upon application made at the time the permit for the work is applied for or during the progress of the work.
(11)
Noise causing disturbance to schools, courts, churches and hospitals. The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court while such institutions are in session or adjacent to any hospital, and which unreasonably interferes with the work of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital; provided, however, that conspicuous signs are displayed about such institutions indicating the presence of such institutions.
(12)
Hawkers, peddlers and vendors. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
(13)
Noises to attract attention; use of drums and other instruments. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show or sale by creation of noise.
(14)
Transportation of metal rails. The transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places.
(15)
Piledrivers, hammers or other loud appliances. The operation from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of any piledriver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise without a special permit from the mayor and council.
(16)
Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise.
(17)
Sound trucks. The use of mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other moving or standing vehicles for advertising or other commercial purposes, and the use of sound trucks for noncommercial purposes during such hours or in such places or with such volume as would constitute such use a public nuisance.
(Code 1984, § 11-1-5; Code 1996, § 42-123; Ord. of 4-2-1991)
