ARTICLE XXI. - NONCONFORMING USES

Section 2100. - Land.
Any land, the existing lawful use of which at the time of passage of this ordinance does not conform with the regulations of the district in which it is located shall have such use considered as a nonconforming use, which may continue on such land but shall be subject to all the other pertinent regulations covering nonconforming uses. Any land approved for a specific use as recorded in the minute book of the mayor and city council at the time of passage of this ordinance shall be permitted for a period of six months. Any extension of time beyond this period will be considered upon proper application presented to the board of appeals.
Section 2101. - Buildings.
Any lawful building or the lawful use of any building existing at the time of the passage of this ordinance that does not conform to use, height, location, size, or bulk, with the regulations of the district in which it is located shall be considered a nonconforming building or use and may continue such use in its present location, but shall be subject to all other pertinent regulations covering nonconforming uses.
Section 2102. - Buildings under construction.
A building for which a valid building permit has been issued and/or is actually under construction to the extent of completion of footings may be completed as a nonconforming use.
Section 2103. - Change of use.
A nonconforming building or use shall be considered as such unless and until it complies with the regulations of the district in which it is located. Such use shall not be changed to a use designated for a district having less restrictive regulations.
Section 2104. - Discontinued use.
A nonconforming use, when discontinued, may be resumed at any time within one year from such discontinuance, but not thereafter. The resumption may be of the same class of use but shall not be resumed as a nonconforming use of a lower class.
Section 2105. - Extension.
Any lawful nonconforming use of a portion of a building may be extended throughout the building or any building of which a lawful nonconforming use is made may be extended upon the lot occupied by such building and held in single and separate ownership on the effective date of this ordinance, or such lawful nonconforming use may be continued in any new building erected upon the lot or tract held in single and separate ownership on the effective date of this ordinance and further, such lawful nonconforming use may be continued on adjoining lots only as a variance provided, in all such cases, that any structure, alteration, extension or addition shall conform with all the height, area, width, yard and coverage requirements for the district in which it is located.
Section 2106. - Change or resumption of nonconforming uses.
The [zoning] board of appeals shall have discretion to determine in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance what resumptions or change of nonconforming use is of the same class of use and permissible.
Section 2107. - Building destroyed by fire, explosion, accident or calamity.
A nonconforming building which has been damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, accident or calamity (as contrasted to deterioration due to time or neglect) may be reconstructed and used for the same nonconforming use, provided that:
(1)
The reconstructed building shall not exceed in height, area and volume the building destroyed, unless it meets the provisions of section 2105.
(2)
Building reconstruction shall be started within one year from the date the building was destroyed and shall be carried on without interruption.
Section 2108. - Building condemned.
A nonconforming building which has been legally condemned shall not be rebuilt or used except in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 2109. - Temporary nonconforming use.
A temporary nonconforming use, which will benefit the public health or welfare or promote proper development of a district in conformity with the intent of this ordinance, may be permitted for a period of not more than one month, on the approval of the board of appeals, but any such use to be permitted for a longer period shall require a public hearing thereon, after which a board of appeals certificate may be issued for a period not exceeding one year in any case.
Section 2110. - Nonconforming signs.
Any sign, signboard, billboard or advertising device existing at the time of the passing of this ordinance that does not conform in use, location, height, or size with the regulations of the district in which it is located, shall be considered a nonconforming use and may continue is [as] such use in its present location. In addition, signs shall conform to the provisions of Georgia State Act 679, as amended, section 95A, chapter 9 which is controlling in case of conflict with this regulation.
