ARTICLE XVIII. - ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS

Section 1800. - Appointment.
The mayor and city council of Statesboro shall be the Statesboro Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Mo. of 3-15-77)
Section 1801. - Powers and duties.
The zoning board of appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
A.
To hear and decide appeals, where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of the zoning regulations. In exercising this power, the zoning board of appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of the zoning regulations, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination of the administrative official. To that end, the zoning board of appeals shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and may direct the issuance of a permit.
B.
To hear and decide special exceptions and conditional uses as allowed by the zoning regulations.
C.
To authorize a variance from the terms of the zoning regulations. Approval of a variance must be in the public interest, the spirit of the ordinance must be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. A variance may not be granted for the use of land that is not permitted by the zoning regulations. In determining whether to grant a variance, the zoning board of appeals shall consider if the following are true:
1.
There are special conditions pertaining to the land or structure in question because of its size, shape, topography, or other physical characteristic and that condition is not common to other land or buildings in the general vicinity or in the same zoning district;
2.
The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the applicant;
3.
The application of the ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and
4.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the zoning regulations.
In the course of exercising any of the above powers, the zoning board of appeals may attach conditions to its approval.
(Ord. No. 2008-11, § 1, 1-6-09)
Section 1802. - Standards for zoning board of appeals actions.
In any instance where the [zoning] board of appeals is required to consider an exception or variance in the zoning ordinance or map in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, the board shall, among other things:
A.
Assure itself that the proposed change is consistent with the spirit, purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance and consider the effect upon the public interest of granting or denying the application.
B.
Determine that the proposed change will not substantially injure or detract from the use of neighboring property or from the general character of the neighborhood, and that the use of the property adjacent to the area included in the proposed change or plan is adequately safeguarded.
C.
Determine that the proposed change will serve the best interests of the city, the convenience of the community where applicable and the public welfare.
D.
Consider the unnecessary hardship which will or may be inflicted upon the applicant by denial of his application.
E.
Consider the presence of [or] absence in the neighborhood of conditions or uses which are the same or similar in character to the condition or use for which the applicant seeks approval.
F.
Consider the effect of the proposed change upon the logical, efficient and economical extension of public services and facilities such as public water, sewers, police and fire protection and public schools, and assure adequate arrangements for sanitation in specific instances.
G.
Safeguard the development of highway frontage insofar as possible so as to limit the total number of access points and encourage the frontage of buildings on parallel marginal roads or on roads perpendicular to the highway.
H.
Consider the suitability of the proposed location of an industrial or commercial use with respect to probable effects upon highway traffic, and assure adequate access arrangements in order to protect major highways from undue congestion and hazard.
I.
Ascertain the adequacy of sanitation and public safety provisions, where applicable, and require a certificate of adequacy of sewage and water facilities from the department of health of the county in any case required herein or deemed advisable.
J.
Impose such conditions, in addition to those required, as are necessary to assure that the general purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance is complied with, which conditions may include, but are not limited to, harmonious design of buildings, planting and its maintenance as a sight or sound screen, and the minimizing of noxious, offensive or hazardous elements.
Section 1803. - Rules of procedure[; effect of appeal].
The [zoning] board of appeals shall make rules as to the manner of filing appeals or applications for special exceptions or for variance from the terms of this ordinance.
A.
An appeal stays all legal proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board of appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the board of appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
B.
Whenever a person shall take an appeal to the board of appeals, he shall obtain the appropriate form from the zoning administrator. It shall be the duty of the said person to complete the appeal form in its entirety; which form is then to be submitted to the city together with the appropriate fees.
Section 1804. - Meetings.
Meetings of the [zoning] board [of appeals] shall be held at the call of the mayor (chairman) and at such times as the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the board and shall be public record.
Section 1805. - Advisory opinion.
In the exercise of the powers vested in it by this ordinance, the [zoning] board of appeals may, in its discretion, refer to any other agency of the city, county or state for an advisory opinion on any matter properly before it with respect to which it believes that such advisory opinion would be helpful to it in reaching its own determination.
Section 1806. - Notice of hearings.
The [zoning] board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it, and give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
Section 1807. - Expiration of special exceptions and variances.
Unless otherwise specified by the [zoning] board of appeals, a special exception or variance shall expire if the applicant fails to obtain a building permit thereunder within six months from the date of authorization thereof.
Sec. 1808. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2009-06, § 1.a), adopted July 21, 2009, deleted § 1808, which pertained to fees and derived from Ord. of 2-1977.
Section 1809. - Appeals from decisions of board of appeals.
Any person or persons separately or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the [zoning] board of appeals may take an appeal to the superior court. Said appeal to the superior court shall be by a writ of certiorari as provided by state law. Said appeal must be filed within 30 days from the date of the decision of the board of appeals, and failure to file said appeal within the 30-day period shall make final the decision of the board.
(Amd. of 12-4-01(3), § 8)
