ARTICLE XXIV. - CONDITIONAL ZONING

Section 2401. - [Authorized.]
Property within any zoning classification may be rezoned subject to conditions if approved by the mayor and city council based upon findings that the use is consistent with adopted plans for the area and that the location, construction, and operation of the proposed use will not significantly impact upon surrounding development or the community in general.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2402. - [Consideration by mayor and council.]
The mayor and city council may consider and act upon requests for conditional rezoning, or impose its own conditions, even though the petition as filed or as heard before the Statesboro Planning Commission contained no conditions or stated different conditions. The Statesboro Planning Commission may recommend conditions on its own motion.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2403. - [Contents of petition.]
If the petitioner for a rezoning seeks amendment of the zoning ordinance or zoning map with conditions, the petition filed must include the following:
(A)
A written description of the proposal designed to inform the city in detail about all aspects of the proposed use and its anticipated impact on the community. The description should include, when pertinent, information about hours of preparation, number of employees, number of dwelling units, vehicle units, vehicle trip ends, noise, lighting and glare, water usage, and any other relevant concerns identified by the city or applicant.
(B)
Preliminary building and site plans drawn to scale showing the following information:
(1)
Project name.
(2)
Project owner.
(3)
Date, scale and north arrow.
(4)
Vicinity map.
(5)
Use of adjacent property.
(6)
Exterior dimensions of the site.
(7)
Total project acreage.
(8)
Residential density (if applicable).
(9)
Location, name and width of all existing or proposed streets.
(10)
Location of all proposed structures.
(11)
Location of all offstreet parking and driveways serving the project.
(12)
Proposed buffers and/or screening.
(13)
Location, height, fixture type, and wattage of site lighting.
(14)
Dumpster locations.
(15)
Rough floor plans, including gross floor area.
(16)
Building height.
(C)
The submittal of inaccurate or incomplete information may be the cause for denial of the request; or, if said discrepancies are realized after approval of the petition or issuance of the relevant local permits, cause for revocation of the approval and any related permits by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2404. - [Recommendation by planning commission.]
After review of the application for conditional use, the Statesboro Planning Commission may recommend that the request be approved, approved with conditions, denied, or held without action for no more than 40 days pending further analysis.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2405. - [Action by mayor and council.]
Following public hearing on the request, the mayor and city council may withhold action for no more than 40 days pending further analysis. The mayor and city council may approve, approve with conditions or deny the request.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2406. - [Criteria for approval.]
In determining the compatibility of the conditional use with adjacent properties and the overall community, the mayor and city council will consider the same criteria and guidelines [as for] determinations of amendments, as well as the following factors:
A.
Adequate provision is made by the applicant to reduce any adverse environmental impact of the proposed use to an acceptable level.
B.
Vehicular traffic and pedestrian movement on adjacent streets will not be substantially hindered or endangered.
C.
Offstreet parking and loading, and the entrances to and exits from such parking and loading, will be adequate in terms of location, amount, and design to serve the use.
D.
Public facilities and utilities are capable of adequately serving the proposed use.
E.
The proposed use will not have a significant adverse effect on the level of property values or the general character of the area.
F.
Unless otherwise noted, the site plan submitted in support of an approved conditional use shall be considered part of the approval and must be followed.
G.
Approval of a proposed use by the mayor and council does not constitute and [an] approval for future expansion of or additions or changes to the initially approved operation. Any future phases or changes that are considered significant by the planning commission and not included in the original approval are subject to the provisions of this section and the review of new detailed plans and reports for said alterations by the governing authority.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2407. - [Expiration.]
Conditional zoning status shall expire if there has been no action to perform said conditions or if no building permit has been issued within 12 months. The zoning shall then convert to its original classification. The mayor and city council may at its discretion extend the conditional zoning for an additional 12 months if so requested by the petitioner at least 30 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
Section 2408. - [Designation on zoning map.]
When property is rezoned subject to conditions, on the official zoning map it shall be marked with the letters and numbers indicating the new zoning classification and followed by the capital letter "C".
(Ord. of 9-17-91)
