ARTICLE IV. - CODE OF ETHICS[10]

Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted April 1, 2003, set out provisions intended for use as Ch. 3, §§ 3-1—3-9. For purposes of classification, and at the editor's discretion, these provisions have been included as Art. IV, §§ 2-121—2-129.

Sec. 2-121. - Declaration of policy; purpose; applicability.
(a)
Declaration of policy. It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government in recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all city officials is adopted.
(b)
Purpose. This code has the following purposes: (1) to encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city officials; (2) to establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the city; (3) to require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in manners that affect the city; and (4) to serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms.
(c)
Applicability. Pursuant to controlling state and federal law, the provisions of this article shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-122. - Scope of article.
(a)
Scope of persons covered. The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all elected or appointed members of the city council, the city attorney, and the municipal court judge.
(b)
City Charter. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Charter of the city shall be controlling in all matters pertaining to the unlawful interest of city council or officers in contracts or other matters governed by the Charter. This article shall be interpreted to supplement, and not replace, said provisions of the Charter.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-123. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
City official or official, unless other expressly defined, means members of the city council, municipal court judge (including substitute judges), city attorney, whether such person is salaried, hired or elected.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the city council, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the council which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Immediate family means spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of any city official.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a city official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public. The interest of a council member in the property tax rate, general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar decisions is incidental to the extent that the council member would be affected in common with the general public.
Substantial interest means a known interest, either directly or through a member of the immediate family, in another person or entity: (1) the interest is ownership of ten percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity or ownership of $5,000.00 or more of the equity or market value of the entity; or (2) funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded $5,000.00 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or $5,000.00 in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or ten percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less; (3) the person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity other than a corporate entity owned or created by the city council; or (4) the person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of $5,000.00 or more. Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of $5,000.00 or more.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-124. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No city official shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for himself or herself or others, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No city official, in any matter before the council, in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No city official shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the city council.
(d)
No city official shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office except as may be provided by law for political campaigns and contributions. Furthermore, no city official shall accept any gift or reward in excess of $50.00 from any person having business before or with the city.
(e)
No city official shall enter into any contract with, or have any interest in, either directly or indirectly, the city except as specifically authorized by state statutes. This prohibition shall not be applicable to the professional activities of the part-time city attorney in his or her periodic work on behalf of the city.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with Georgia law.
(h)
No city official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair judgment or performance of city duties.
(i)
If a city official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the city council and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No city official shall use city facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No city official shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-125. - Conflict of interest.
A city official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the official has a substantial interest. In addition, city officials who serve as corporate officers or members of the board of directors of a nonprofit entity must disclose their interest in said entity prior to participating in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the city of the entity. Where the interest of a city official in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the city official may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-126. - Exemptions.
This code shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-127. - Investigation procedure.
The city council shall have the following duties and powers:
(1)
To establish procedures, rules and regulations governing its internal organization and conduct of its affairs, provided however, that any finding of the city council shall be made on a positive vote of at least three of the remaining members of the city council;
(2)
To hold a hearing within 60 days after the receipt of complaint. Failure to hold a hearing within the specified time shall result in dismissal of the complaint as to the transaction and shall prevent refiling if a complaint arises in the same incident for at least a period of three months;
(3)
To receive and hear complaints of violations of the standards required by this article;
(4)
To deliver to the accused party written notice of the allegations at least ten business days before a hearing. Service may be by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested;
(5)
To make such investigation and response to a complaint as it deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated any provisions of this article;
(6)
To hold such hearings and make such inquiries as deemed necessary to investigate and rule upon complaints; and
(7)
To report its findings along with any proposed sanction.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-128. - Enforcement procedure.
(a)
Any person having a complaint against any city official for an alleged ethics violation under this article shall file in writing a verified complaint setting forth the particular facts and circumstances which constitute the alleged violation. The complaint shall be filed with the mayor of the city, or in the event the complaint regards the mayor, shall be filed with the mayor pro-tem of the city council. Upon receipt of a complaint, the mayor, or in the event the complaint regards the mayor, the mayor pro-tem shall notify the accused official of the complaint. The accused official shall provide a written response to the mayor (or mayor pro-tem) concerning the allegation within three days. The mayor (or mayor pro-tem) shall appoint three members of the city council to serve as an investigating committee. The mayor (or mayor pro-tem) shall serve as one of the three members. The committee shall be assisted by the city attorney. The committee shall determine whether the complaint sets forth significant facts and circumstances so as to warrant a hearing before the full city council.
(b)
In the event the investigating committee determines that the complaint does not set forth sufficient facts to constitute an alleged violation and is found unjustified, frivolous or patently unfounded, it shall be dismissed and the complainant and accused official notified immediately. In the event the complaint is found to state sufficient facts to warrant a hearing before the city council, the mayor (or mayor pro-tem) shall schedule a hearing into the complaint. The city council shall call any witness or request any evidence it deems necessary to consider the complaint. Three of the remaining five city council members must be present in order for the hearing to be held. The accused official shall have the right at such hearing to present evidence or call witnesses, and the accused official shall have the right to be represented by an attorney.
(c)
Any ethics complaint against the municipal court judge or the city attorney shall be investigated and the provisions of this article enforced by the city council.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Sec. 2-129. - Penalties.
Any persons violating any provisions of this policy are subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the council; and
(2)
Request for resignation by the council.
(Ord. of 4-1-03(1), § 1)
Secs. 2-130—2-150. - Reserved.
