ARTICLE IV. - GENERAL POWERS OF THE CITY

Section 4-1. - Enactment of ordinances, vote required; authority of mayor to vote; posting, publication.
(a)
The city council shall have power and authority to enact such ordinances from time to time as it may deem necessary to enforce the provisions of this Charter. Three councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the minutes, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the minutes. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the affirmative vote of three councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion. In the event vacancies in office result in less than a quorum of councilmembers holding office, then the remaining councilmembers in office shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact the business of the city council. A vote of a majority of the remaining councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
(b)
In case of a tie, the mayor shall have the right to vote, and any ordinance or other measure in such cases receiving the votes of two councilmembers and the mayor shall be passed and held of full force and effect. In no case shall the mayor have the right to vote upon any ordinance or measure, except in case of a tie; but it shall be his or her duty to vote in all cases where a tie arises, whether with a full vote of five councilmembers present or not, and such vote, when cast, shall count as the vote of a councilmember in determining whether any ordinance has received the three votes necessary to pass. In the event a councilmember shall be disqualified from voting in accordance with the disqualification prescribed by the law of this state or shall refuse to vote, a note of the refusal or disqualification shall be made upon the book of minutes and the remaining members of the council shall proceed to vote and act as if the councilmember were absent.
(c)
Every ordinance adopted by the council shall be presented promptly by the council to the mayor. The mayor, within ten calendar days of receipt of an ordinance, except in zoning matters, shall return it to the council with or without his or her approval or with his or her disapproval. If the ordinance has been approved by the mayor, it shall become law upon its return to the council. If the ordinance is neither approved nor disapproved, it shall become law at 12:00 noon on the tenth calendar day after its adoption. If the ordinance is disapproved, the mayor shall submit to the city council a written statement of his or her reasons for his or her veto. The council shall record upon the ordinance the dates of its delivery to and receipt from the mayor. Ordinances vetoed by the mayor shall be considered by the council at its next meeting, and should the city council then or at its next general meeting adopt the ordinance by an affirmative vote of four members, it shall become law. The mayor may disapprove or reduce any item or items of appropriation in any ordinance. The approved part or parts of any ordinance making appropriations shall become law, and the part or parts disapproved shall not become law unless subsequently passed by the city council over the mayor's veto by the affirmative vote of four members. The reduced part or parts shall be presented to city council as though disapproved and shall become law unless overridden by the council by the affirmative vote of four members.
(d)
It shall be optional for the city council to have posted any measure, ordinance, or resolution at such place in the city as it may direct, for the information of the public, or it may have the same published in any newspaper of the city, but failure to so post or publish any ordinance, measure, or resolution shall in no wise operate to render same void.
(Ga. L. 2000, p. 3786, § 6)
Section 4-2. - Regulations for general welfare.
To carry into effect the powers conferred upon the mayor and city council by this Charter or any future amendments to the Charter by the General Assembly of this state, and for the preservation of the peace, good order, temperance, morality, and general welfare of the city and the inhabitants thereof, the city council shall have the power and authority to make and pass all needed bylaws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations not contrary to the Constitution and laws of this state.
Section 4-3. - Control over finances, property of city.
The city council shall have the power to control the finances and property of the city, to appropriate money, and to provide for the payment of the debts and expenses of the corporation.
Section 4-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 2 of an Act adopted March 2, 1995, set out provisions superseding section 4-4, which pertained to executive powers of the mayor. The mayor's duties are set out in section 3-1.
Section 4-5. - Fire and building regulations.
The mayor and council shall have the power to fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation thereof; also the mayor and council shall have the power to regulate the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures, including but not limited to adoption of building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, energy, and heating and air-conditioning codes, and to provide by ordinance penalties for any violation of the same.
Section 4-6. - Nuisances; designation, abatement.
The mayor and city council are empowered to declare what shall constitute a nuisance within the limits of the City of Statesboro and to pass such ordinances as are necessary to prevent the same, and by ordinance they may empower the municipal court of the city to abate same and authorize the removal of such nuisance within the city limits of the City of Statesboro and to punish the person, persons, firms, or corporations causing or allowing such nuisance to exist, and they may provide for the assessment of the expense of the removal of such nuisance against such person, persons, firms, or corporations causing or continuing same and may provide for the collection of such expense by execution, the execution to have the same force and effect as city tax executions.
Section 4-7. - Procedure for the removal of noisome weeds and vegetable growth.
(a)
Authority. The mayor and city council of the City of Statesboro shall have the power and authority to require the owner, or his duly authorized agent, of any lot, tract, parcel of land, or premises in the City of Statesboro to cut and remove from the same, at any time that the city engineer of the city may deem necessary, any and all weeds or vegetable growth thereon which might endanger the public health. If, after 15 days from service of written notice to such owner or the owner's duly authorized agent by the city engineer of the city, the vegetable growth or weeds are not cut and removed, the mayor and city council may cut and remove the same and charge the expense of the same to the owner.
(b)
Execution. The mayor and city council shall have the authority to enforce the collection of the charges for cutting and removing such weeds or vegetable growth, when such charges are due and remain unpaid for a period of 30 days, by execution to be issued by the city clerk of the city against the owner of the premises from which the vegetable growth or weeds are cut and removed and such other person as may be liable therefor. The execution shall be a lien upon the premises and, when recorded upon the general execution docket of Bulloch County, Georgia, shall be a lien upon all of the property of the defendant in execution from the date of such record.
(c)
Contents of notice. The notice required shall consist of a written notice delivered to the owner or his duly authorized agent, in person or by registered mail, signed by the city engineer of the City of Statesboro and directed to the property owner in the City of Statesboro requiring such property owner within 15 days after the date of the service of such notice to cut and remove any and all weeds or vegetable growth that may exist upon the land or premises of such property owner.
(d)
Procedure on execution. The said execution shall be levied and the property sold in the manner now provided for the levy and collection of taxes by the City of Statesboro, and defenses available to the defendant in execution as well as the proceedings for filing a claim to the property levied upon by third persons shall in all respects be similar to the proceedings and provisions of the law applicable to the levy of execution for taxes in said city.
Section 4-8. - Impoundment and redemption or sale of animals at large within the city.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to prevent stock from running at large; to take up and impound any horse, cow, hog, goat, or other animal found at large within the corporate limits of the city; and to provide by the proper ordinance for the redemption or sale of the same; and to enact such laws and ordinances as may be considered necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
Section 4-9. - Parks; acquisition, improvement, maintenance.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to purchase suitable vacant lands for parks and to pay for the same out of the current funds, and to accept gifts of land to be used as parks, and to improve and maintain the same, at any time they may deem necessary.
Section 4-10. - Regulation of vehicles.
The mayor and city council shall have power and authority to regulate the operation of motorized and nonmotorized vehicles and to exercise control over all traffic, including parking, upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city; such power and authority shall include but not be limited to adopting uniform traffic codes for the regulation of traffic and prescribing penalties and punishment for violation thereof.
Section 4-11. - Zoning rules, regulations, and ordinances.
(a)
The mayor and council are authorized to promulgate rules, regulations, and ordinances whereby the City of Statesboro, Georgia, may be zoned and districted for various uses, and other or different uses prohibited therein, and to regulate the use or uses for which such zones or districts may be set apart, and to promulgate rules, regulations, and ordinances for the development of real estate.
(b)
The authority given to the City of Statesboro, Georgia, acting through its mayor and council or the governing authorities thereof to pass zoning and planning laws, is that provided in Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of Georgia.
Section 4-12. - Procedure for the sale of municipal water, gas systems; referendum required.
The mayor and city council of the City of Statesboro may not sell, rent, lease, or otherwise dispose of the municipal water system or the municipal gas system without first obtaining permission therefor by a referendum and election in which qualified voters of the city vote; and of all the voters voting in such referendum, at least a majority of whom must vote in favor of leasing, selling, renting, or otherwise disposing of the municipal water system or the municipal gas system before the mayor or council shall be authorized to perform such acts.
Section 4-13. - Grants of utility franchises.
The mayor and city council are authorized and empowered by ordinance to grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services; to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with such regulations by the Georgia Public Service Commission.
Section 4-14. - Restrictions upon grant of franchises; duration limited, renewal prohibited.
The mayor and city council of the City of Statesboro shall grant a franchise to any electric power company, gas company, telephone company, telegraph company, or any other public or private utility which shall be for a period as specified by the council; the franchise when granted shall contain no renewal or continuation privileges and at the expiration of the franchise, it shall be necessary for said utility companies to obtain a new franchise from the mayor and city council.
Section 4-15. - Issuance of bonds; purposes designated.
The mayor and city council shall have full power and authority to issue bonds for the purpose of meeting and maturing outstanding bonds of the city and for any purposes of internal improvements whatever, under the Constitution and laws of Georgia regulating the issuing of municipal bonds.
Section 4-16. - Existing ordinances preserved.
This Charter shall not abolish any of the ordinances now of force in the city, except where they may come in conflict with this charter, but shall preserve and continue the same in operation.
