ARTICLE XIII. - (C-1) LOCAL, (C-2) GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND (I) INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

Sec. 1. - Protective Screening Commercial Districts.
new
Protective screening for Local Commercial (C-1) and General Commercial Districts (C-2) adjacent to or across the street (with the exception of major arterial or major collector roads) from residential districts shall be in compliance with applicable sections of this Code. See Article XVI: Protective Screenings and Buffers.
Sec. 2. - Restrictions Commercial Districts.
new
The following restrictions shall apply to all permitted and conditional businesses in the C-1 district.
1.
Eating and drinking establishments are allowed to have tables outside; however, there shall be no more than ten (10) tables, or up to 25 percent of the number of indoor tables, whichever number is less.
2.
Retail businesses shall have no more than 7,000 square feet of gross floor area.
No business operations shall be conducted between the early morning hours of midnight and 5 am with the exception of normal business opening and closing activities, cleaning, restocking, etc. Nor shall any establishment be open to the public during said hours.
Unless specifically covered by this chapter, all other sections of this ordinance shall apply to all establishments.
Sec. 3. - Protective Screening Industrial District.
new
See Article XVI: Protective Screenings and Buffers.
Sec. 4. - Non-Residential Development Standards.
new
1.
General. If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned for commercial or industrial purposes, the layout of the subdivision with respect to the land shall make provision as the Zoning Board may require. A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the requirements of site plan approval as set forth in Macon County's subdivision ordinance. A nonresidential subdivision shall be subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards required by the Zoning Board, and shall conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the Comprehensive Plan, Official Zoning Map, and Zoning Ordinance.
2.
Standards. In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, which are appropriate to the planning of all development including new subdivisions, the applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Zoning Board that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards shall be observed:
2.1
Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
2.2
Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
2.3
Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with respect to street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
2.4
Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm water drainage.
