ARTICLE XVI. - PROTECTIVE SCREENING AND BUFFER STRIPS

Sec. 1. - Purpose and Intent.
new
All plans for protective screening shall be submitted to the Zoning Commission Zoning Administrator for prior approval of materials, their use and the arrangement thereof. If, in the opinion of the Zoning Commission screening would serve no good purpose, the Commission may waive protective screening requirements.
Sec. 2. - Residential Buffers.
new
Where an industrial or commercial district abuts directly upon a residential district a landscaped greenbelt, not less than twenty (20) feet deep, shall be established by and maintained by said industrial or commercial developer along the industrial or commercial property's entire boundary with the residential zone. Such greenbelt shall be planted with deciduous trees, evergreens, flowering trees and/or ornamental trees set no closer than six (6) feet to the fence or wall. The remainder of the landscaped area, which is not planted with the aforementioned stock, shall be in well-kept lawn. All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition.
Sec. 3. - Landscape.
new
The owner/developer of any: (1) property zoned R-2, (2) commercially zoned property which abuts an industrial zone, (3) industrially zoned property which abuts a commercial zone, (4) commercially or industrially zoned property which abuts a residential zone, (5) Conditional use commercial or conditional use industrial property shall provide landscape strips, as herein defined, ten (10) feet deep along the full length of the developed portion abutting any public road, and five (5) feet deep along the developed portion of side and rear property lines.
Sec. 4. - Acceptable Plant Material.
new
In those instances where the natural vegetation and topography is insufficient to achieve the desired level of screening as required by this chapter, a planted buffer shall be provided and shall consist of plant material of such growth characteristics as will provide an acoustical and visual screen. Acceptable trees (excluding dwarf varieties) for use in required buffers and landscape strips include, but are not limited to, the following:
EXPAND
American Holly Loblolly Pine
Arizona Cypress Redbay Loquat
Cherry Laurel Virginia Pine
Eastern Red Cedar White Pine
Leyland Cypress Yaupon Holly
Little Gem Magnolia
  Sec. 5. - Shrubs.
new
Shrubs used to form hedges shall not be deciduous. They shall be at least two (2) feet above ground level when planted. They shall be spaced in such a way that when mature, they will form a continuous visual screen (hedge) that is at least six (6) feet in height. Acceptable types of shrubs include, but are not limited to, the following:
EXPAND
Burford Holly Japanese Privet
California Privet Northern Bayberry
Cleyera Pittsporum
European Privet Sasanqua Camellia
Euonymus Southern Waxmyrtle
Japan Yew Tea Olive
  Sec. 6. - Salvage Yard Buffers.
new
A solid-faced fence eight (8) feet high, and buffer strip eight (8) feet deep, as defined herein, meeting acceptable standards designated by the Zoning Commission, and providing an adequate visual shield, shall be erected along all road frontages and all sides visible from public roadways.
