ARTICLE V. - ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS

Sec. 1. - Purpose.
For purposes of this ordinance, the area of Macon County outside the incorporated communities of Ideal, Marshallville, Montezuma, and Oglethorpe, is divided into land use districts or zones for the purposes of promoting the proper location, height, bulk, number of stories, size of open space, density and distribution of population and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, conservation, sanitation, protection against flooding, public activities, and other purposes so as to lessen congestion in roads and streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to promote the public health and general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population, to prevent urban sprawl; to facilitate adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements; to promote desirable living conditions and stability of neighborhoods; to protect against blight and depreciation; to secure economy in governmental expenditures; to conserve the value of buildings and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and structures throughout Macon County, and for other purposes.
Sec. 2. - Establishment of Districts.
new
In order to carry out the intent and purpose of this ordinance, unincorporated Macon County is hereby divided into the following districts:
EXPAND
DISTRICT NAME Abbreviation
Agricultural Intensive AG-1
Agricultural Residential AG-2
River Protection RP
Single Family Residential R-1
Multi-Family Residential R-2
Manufactured Home Park R-3
Recreational Vehicle Park RVP
Local Commercial C-1
General Commercial C-2
Industrial I
Cultural/Historical CH
Flood Hazard (Overlay District) FH
  Sec. 3. - Purpose of Districts.
new
The Agriculture Districts [are] established in recognition of the high incidence of farmland and prime farmland in the county, high rate of farmer participation in the farmland preferential tax assessment program, the economic impact of farming on Macon County, the general population decline which has occurred in the unincorporated area during the preceding forty-year period (1960-2000) and projected minimal population growth over the next 20 years. There are two Agricultural Districts: The Agricultural Intensive District and The Agricultural Residential District. The intent of both districts is to protect the right-to-farm while allowing non-agricultural land uses which are compatible with agriculture, and which tend to support and serve the needs of residents and land use in the Agriculture district.
The Agricultural Intensive District is established in recognition of the high incidence of prime farmland in certain areas the county and the importance of protecting this economic, cultural and natural resource from non-compatible land uses and higher land densities.
The Agricultural Residential District is intended to provide residents more housing choice in the agricultural and rural residential areas of the county by allowing higher residential densities of housing in those areas where prime farmland is less prevalent and where municipal water services may be available now or in the near future. Although agricultural is the predominant land use in this district, and is encouraged to remain so and significant prime farm land acreage is present, this natural resource is much less concentrated than in the Agricultural Intensive District.
The River Protection district is created in recognition of the natural resources, eco-systems, flora and fauna which make positive contributions to the local quality of life in Macon County and to protect these resources from the development they so often attract. The purpose of the River Protection is also to promote public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private property losses due to flood conditions along the Flint River and its tributaries.
The Single-Family Residential district is established to encourage development of single-family, detached housing including stick-built, modular and manufactured homes and to encourage neighborhood maintenance and preservation. This district will allow a variety of higher density housing when public water and sewer services are available and when those public water and sewer services have the capacity to serve new development but discourage developments which would generate traffic levels and patterns on neighborhood roads in conflict with the a roads current capacity and acceptable service level.
The Multi-Family Residential district will allow a variety of higher density housing when public water and sewer services are available and when those public water and sewer services have the capacity to serve new development but discourage developments which would generate traffic levels and patterns on neighborhood roads in conflict with the a roads current capacity and acceptable service level.
The Manufactured Home Park district is created and designed for the development of manufactured home parks and related facilities within a well-planned environment and operated in Macon County for the health, safety, and welfare of those who reside in said park and all citizens of Macon County.
The RVP district is established as a place for tourist, vacationers, sportsmen and sportswomen to stay temporarily in Macon County while enjoying its' many natural and historic resources. The length of stay for any occupant will not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. RVP shall be well-planned and designed and operated in Macon County for the health, safety, and welfare of those who reside in said park, for the preservation of the health, safety, and welfare of all citizens of Macon County.
The Local Commercial district is intended to permit retail business and service uses that are needed to serve nearby residential areas. Uses are prohibited which would create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic, or late hours of operation. The intent of the this district is also to encourage the concentration of local business areas in locations proposed in the future land use plan to the advantage of consumers, merchants, and the community, thereby promoting the best use of land at certain strategic locations by prohibiting marginal, strip business development along county roads.
The General Commercial district is established to provide for and encourage development of a wide variety of sales and services in response to the broader commercial needs of the county and to provide areas for more intense commercial uses usually located along major arterials and used as a gateway into municipalities and in need of public water and sewer.
The Industrial district is established to provide suitable area for industrial development and manufacturing facilities that can operate with Macon County' existing public infrastructure capabilities.
The Flood Hazard district is established to promote public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to require that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction.
•
Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion;
•
Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion;
•
Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands; and
•
Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channel, and natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters.
The Cultural-Historic district purpose is to recognize, plan and protect the integrity of Macon County's unique and historic areas. The county finds that its historic areas and their scenic surroundings are important cultural, recreational and economic assets, critical to the public's long-term interest. Zoning standards and regulations should protect these areas while advancing community development goals and furthering and protecting the public's health, safety and welfare. New construction in these areas should complement rather than interrupt, obscure, or otherwise damage or destroy the historic areas.
Sec. 4. - District Zoning Map.
new
The boundaries of zoning districts are shown upon the map designated as the official zoning district map of unincorporated Macon County. The zoning map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this ordinance and have the same force and effects as if the zoning district map and all the notations references and other information show thereon were fully set forth and described herein, which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with the Macon County Zoning Administrator and available for public review.
Sec. 5. - Interpretation of District Boundaries.
new
Where boundaries are indicated as approximately following street lines, land lot lines, militia district lines, railroad lines, stream beds or river beds, private lot lines or corporate limit lines, such lines existing at the time of passage of the zoning resolution shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Where a district boundary divides a parcel, location of the district boundary shall be determined by use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map, unless clearly indicated otherwise by dimensions on the zoning map.
Where a public right-of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the vacated property shall be considered as being within the same zoning district as the adjoining property.
Where district boundaries are shown so as to indicate they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of roads or highways, such boundaries shall be construed as being measured from or being parallel to the center lines of such roads or highways. If no distance is provided, dimensions shall be determined by the use of the map scale appearing on the official zoning map.
Sec. 6. - Official Zoning Map.
new
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this ordinance are bounded and defined as shown on the maps entitled "Zoning Map of Macon County, Georgia." Said map shall also be identified by the signature of the clerk, the County Commission Chairman of Macon County and the adoption date of this ordinance. The zoning maps and all explanatory matters thereon are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance.
