ARTICLE III. - GROUNDWATER RECHARGE AREA PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-185. - Short title.
This article shall be known as the "groundwater recharge area protection ordinance" of the county.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.1)
Sec. 14-186. - Findings of fact.
(a)
In order to provide for the health, safety and welfare of the public and a healthy economic climate in the county and surrounding communities, it is essential that public drinking water resources of high quality be ensured. For this reason, it is necessary to protect the subsurface water resources that the county and surrounding communities rely on as sources of public water. Groundwater resources are contained within aquifers, which are permeable, rock strata occupying vast regions of the subsurface. These aquifers are replenished by infiltration of surface water runoff in zones of the surface known as groundwater recharge areas.
(b)
Groundwater is susceptible to contamination when unrestricted development occurs within significant groundwater recharge areas. It is, therefore, necessary to manage land use within groundwater recharge areas to ensure that pollution threats to water resources are minimized.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.2)
Sec. 14-187. - Objectives.
The objectives of this article are to:
(1)
Protect groundwater quality by restricting land uses that generate, use, or store dangerous pollutants in recharge areas;
(2)
Protect groundwater quality by limiting density of development; and
(3)
Protect groundwater quality by ensuring that any development that occurs within the recharge area shall have no adverse effect on groundwater quality.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.3(1))
Sec. 14-188. - Penalties
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-15. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 5)
Sec. 14-189. - Establishment of a groundwater recharge area district.
A groundwater recharge area district is hereby established which shall correspond to all lands in unincorporated areas of the county that are mapped and designated as significant recharge areas by the state department of natural resources in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.3(2))
Sec. 14-190. - Determination of pollution susceptibility.
Each recharge area shall be determined to have a pollution susceptibility of high, medium or low based on the state pollution susceptibility map prepared by the state department of natural resources.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.3(3))
Sec. 14-191. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Aquifer means any stratum (rock layer) or zone of rock beneath the surface of the earth capable of containing or producing water from a well.
Groundwater recharge area (synonymous with aquifer recharge area) means an area of the earth's surface where water infiltrates the ground, thereby replenishing the groundwater supplies within an aquifer.
Pollution susceptibility means the relative vulnerability of groundwater to pollution from chemical spills, leaching of pollutants from dump sites, animal waste from agricultural operations or pollution generated by other human activities.
Pollution susceptibility maps means maps prepared by the state department of natural resources (DNR) that show the relative susceptibility of groundwater to pollution. Pollution susceptibility maps categorize the land areas of the state into areas of high, medium and low groundwater pollution potential.
Significant groundwater recharge areas means areas mapped by DNR in Hydrologic Atlas 18, 1989 edition. Mapping of recharge areas is based on outcrop area, lithology (chemical nature and form of rock), soil type and thickness, slope, density of lithologic contacts, geologic structure, presence of karst topography (sinkholes, caves and fissures associated with limestone and other carbonate rocks), and potentiometric surfaces.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 11)
Secs. 14-192—14-220. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 14-221. - Compliance required.
No building permit, rezoning request or subdivision plan will be approved by the permitting officer unless the permit, request and/or plan is in compliance with the groundwater protection standards listed in this article.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 1.3(4))
Sec. 14-222. - Enforcement.
(a)
The permitting officer, the permitting officer's agent, officers and employees shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing their assigned duties and responsibilities under this article, and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the permitting officer deems necessary.
(b)
The permitting officer may require a bond with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this article. In the event of a breach of any condition of any such bond, the permitting officer may institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the same to judgment and execution.
(c)
The permitting officer shall have authority to enforce this article; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(d)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers in the jurisdiction shall have authority to assist the permitting officer in enforcement.
(e)
The permitting officer shall have the authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this division. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified herein.
(f)
When the permitting officer determines that a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this division, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the permitting officer.
(g)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator shall be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.1)
Sec. 14-223. - Permit review and site plan requirement.
With the exception of certain exempted activities identified in section 14-224, applications for a development permit within the groundwater recharge area district shall include a site plan providing the following information:
(1)
A map or maps, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet showing all planned improvements, including the width, depth and length of all existing and proposed structures, roads, water courses and drainage ways, water lines, wastewater and stormwater facilities, and utility installations, shall be provided by the applicant.
(2)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site.
(3)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the proposed site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(4)
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five feet.
(5)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing hazardous or toxic materials released accidentally.
(6)
Calculations of the amount of cut and fill proposed and cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades in areas of fill or excavation. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on cross-sectional drawings.
(7)
Activities to comply with site plan. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. Significant changes to the site plan that would alter the amount and velocity of stormwater runoff from the site, increase the amount of impervious surface within the development, alter the overall density of development, result in a considerable increase in the amount of excavation, fill or removal of vegetation during construction or otherwise result in an alteration of the overall appearance of the development as proposed, can be amended only with the approval of the permitting officer. Minor changes, such as the realignment of streets or minor alterations to drainage structures and other infrastructure to meet unexpected conditions are exempted from this requirement.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.2)
Sec. 14-224. - Exemptions to site plan requirements.
The following activities and developments are exempt from the requirement for detailed site plans:
(1)
Single-family detached homes constructed within a subdivision of fewer than five parcels.
(2)
Repair to a facility that is part of a previously approved and permitted development.
(3)
Construction of minor structures, such as sheds or additions to single-family residences.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.3)
Sec. 14-225. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the permitting officer and shall be reviewed within 60 days. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, conditional approval or disapproval) by the permitting officer. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the permitting officer. If the review process is not completed within 60 days, the application is considered to be approved. Decisions of the permitting officer may be appealed to the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.4)
Sec. 14-226. - Public notice and public hearing.
Public notice of permit applications, through publication in the local organ, is required. A public hearing on the application, to be held by the permitting officer, may be scheduled if requested by a citizen. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 14 days prior to the hearing. A record of the proceedings shall be made and kept on file by the permitting officer. Any person may testify at the hearing. Decisions of the permitting officer may be appealed to the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.5)
Sec. 14-227. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of permit issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire six months after the date work ceased.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 4.6)
Secs. 14-228—14-247. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - GROUNDWATER PROTECTION STANDARDS

Sec. 14-248. - Criteria for waste disposal facilities.
(a)
For all pollution susceptibility areas, new waste disposal facilities must have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(b)
New agricultural waste impoundments shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
For areas of high pollution susceptibility, a liner shall be provided that is approved by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service (SCS).
(2)
For areas of medium pollution susceptibility, a liner approved by the SCS shall be provided if the site exceeds 15 acre-feet.
(3)
For areas of low pollution susceptibility, a liner approved by the SCS shall be provided if the site exceeds 50 acre-feet.
(4)
No land disposal of hazardous waste shall be permitted within any significant groundwater recharge area.
(5)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, as identified in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, excluding underground storage tanks, and in amounts of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day, shall take place on an impermeable surface having spill and leak protection approved by the state department of natural resources, environmental protection division (EPD), and in conformance with local fire prevention code requirements.
(6)
For all significant groundwater recharge areas, new, aboveground chemical or petroleum storage tanks larger than 650 gallons must have secondary containment for 110 percent of tank volume or 110 percent of the largest tank in a cluster of tanks. Such tanks used for agricultural purposes are exempt from this requirement, provided they comply with applicable federal regulations.
(7)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, new wastewater treatment basins shall have an impermeable liner approved by EPD.
(8)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, no new stormwater infiltration basins may be constructed.
(9)
For high pollution susceptibility areas, the use of wastewater spray irrigation systems and the land application of wastewater sludge shall be practiced in accordance with the department of natural resources criteria for slow rate land treatment. An application for a development permit for activities involving wastewater spray irrigation or land application of wastewater sludge must be accompanied by proof that the applicant has received a land application system permit from EPD.
(10)
Minimum lot sizes and septic systems. Construction of new homes to be served by septic tank/drain systems shall not commerce until such time as the required building permit has been issued, and the proposed septic tank installation has been approved by the county health department in conformance with minimum lot size requirements.
Secs. 14-249—14-274. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - APPEALS, AMENDMENTS, AND ASSESSMENT RELIEF

Sec. 14-275. - Jurisdiction.
All final decisions of the county board of commissioners concerning approval, conditional approval or denial of a permit shall be reviewable in the county superior court.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 7.1)
Sec. 14-276. - Alternative actions.
Based on these proceedings and the decision of the court, the county board of commissioners may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 7.2)
Sec. 14-277. - Amendments.
These regulations may, from time to time, be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information becomes available.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 8)
Sec. 14-278. - Assessment relief.
The county board of assessors shall consider the requirements of these regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(02), § 9)
Secs. 14-279—14-304. - Reserved.
