ARTICLE II. - WETLAND PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-21. - Findings of fact.
(a)
Wetlands are indispensable and fragile natural resources with significant development constraints due to flooding, erosion and soils limitations. In their natural state, wetlands serve man and nature. They provide habitat areas for fish, wildlife and vegetation; water quality maintenance and pollution control; flood control; erosion control; natural resource education; scientific study; and open space and recreational opportunities. In addition, the wise management of forested wetlands is essential to the economic well-being of many communities within the state.
(b)
Nationally, a considerable number of wetland resources have been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating, building, pollution and other acts. Piecemeal or cumulative losses will, over time, destroy additional wetlands. Damaging or destroying wetlands threatens public safety and the general welfare.
(c)
It is, therefore, necessary for the county to ensure maximum protection for wetlands located in the county by discouraging development activities that may adversely affect wetlands.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 1.1)
Sec. 14-22. - Title and purpose.
This article shall be known as the "wetland protection ordinance" of the county. The purpose of this article is to promote wetland protection, while taking into account varying ecological, economic development, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities that may damage wetlands should be located on upland sites to the greatest degree practicable as determined through a permitting process. The objective of this article is to protect wetlands from alterations that will significantly affect or reduce their primary functions for water quality, floodplain and erosion control, groundwater recharge, aesthetic nature and wildlife habitat.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 1.2)
Sec. 14-23. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Generalized wetland map means a map showing the general locations of wetlands within the unincorporated areas of county. The generalized wetland map used at the time of the adoption date of the ordinance from which this article is derived is the national wetlands inventory as published by the United States Department of Interior.
Hydric soils means soils that form as a result of saturated soils conditions. A list of these soils is maintained by the soil conservation service.
Hydrophytic vegetation means macrophytic plants tolerant of, or dependent on, saturated soil conditions.
Jurisdictional determination means an official, written statement or map signed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, stating whether a certain specified site is a wetland or is in a wetland.
Jurisdictional wetland means a wetland area that meets the definitional requirements for wetlands as determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Temporary emergency permit means a temporary permit that may be issued in certain circumstances specified in section 14-88.
Wetland means an area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and distribution sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs and similarly areas.
Wetland delineation means the establishment of wetland boundaries by a representative of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or an authority designated by the Corps.
Wetland protection district means all wetlands within the county and shown on the generalized wetland map.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 10)
Sec. 14-24. - Amendments.
These regulations and the generalized wetland map may from time to time be amended in accordance with procedures and requirements in the general statutes and as new information concerning wetland locations, soils, hydrology, flooding or plant species peculiar to wetlands becomes available.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 7)
Sec. 14-25. - Assessment relief.
The county boards of assessors shall consider wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land. Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement or entered into a conservation program with the government or a nonprofit organization restricting activities in a wetland shall have that portion of land assessed consistent with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from special assessment on the wetland to defray the cost of municipal improvements such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water mains.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 8)
Secs. 14-26—14-53. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - WETLAND PROTECTION DISTRICT

Sec. 14-54. - Area established; adoption of wetland map.
This division shall apply to all lands within wetlands located in unincorporated areas of the county. The generalized wetland map, adopted as part of this article shows the general location of wetlands and should be consulted by persons contemplating activities in or near wetlands. The generalized wetland map, together with all explanatory matter thereon and attached thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this division. The generalized wetland map shall be on file in the office of the board of commissioners of the county.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 2.1)
Sec. 14-55. - Wetland protection district boundaries.
The generalized wetland map is a general reference document, and wetland boundaries indicated on the map are approximations. The purpose of the generalized wetland map is to alert developers/landowners that a subject site may be in a jurisdictional wetland or in proximity to a jurisdictional wetland, requiring the developer/landowner to seek U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' guidance as to whether a section 404 permit will be required prior to initiation of any development activity on the subject site. The generalized wetland map does not represent precise boundaries of jurisdictional wetlands within the county, and cannot serve as a substitute for a delineation of wetland boundaries by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required by section 404 of the Clean Water Act, as amended. Any local government action under this division does not relieve the landowner from federal or state permitting requirements.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 2.2)
Sec. 14-56. - Relationship to zoning.
The wetland protection district is hereby established. the wetland protection district shall comprise an overlay zone that supplements and is indicated on the county zoning ordinance zoning map, which is hereby incorporated and made part of this division by reference. When the two ordinances conflict, the more restrictive ordinance shall apply.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 2.3)
Secs. 14-57—14-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PERMITS

Sec. 14-86. - Local development permit requirements.
No regulated activity will be allowed within the wetland protection district without written permission from the permitting officer in the form of a local development permit. Issuance of a local development permit is contingent on full compliance with the terms of this division and other applicable regulations. All activities that are not identified in section 14-87 or by other local development ordinances, shall be prohibited without prior issuance of a local development permit. If the area proposed for development appears to be located within 50 feet of the wetland protection district boundary, as determined by the permitting officer from review of the generalized wetland map, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers determination shall be required. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present on the proposed development site and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, a local development permit will be issued only following receipt by the local permitting officer of a copy of the section 404 permit or letter of permission issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.1)
Sec. 14-87. - Permissible uses (uses as of right).
The following uses shall be allowed as of right within a wetland to the extent they are not prohibited by any other ordinance or law, including laws of trespass, and provided they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging except as provided herein:
(1)
Conservation or preservation of soil, water, vegetation, fish and other wildlife, provided they do not affect waters of the state or of the United States in such a way that would require an individual 404 permit.
(2)
Outdoor passive recreational activities, including fishing, bird watching, hiking, boating, horseback riding and canoeing.
(3)
Forestry practices applied in accordance with best management practices approved by the state forestry commission and as specified in section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
(4)
The continued cultivation of agricultural crops. Agricultural activities shall, however, be subject to best management practices approved by the state department of agriculture.
(5)
The pasturing of livestock, provided that riparian wetlands are protected, that soil profiles are not disturbed and that approved agricultural best management practices are followed.
(6)
Education, scientific research and nature trails.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.2)
Sec. 14-88. - Temporary emergency permit.
A temporary, emergency permit can be issued by the permitting officer for the following reasons:
(1)
Maintenance or repair of lawfully located roads or structures and of facilities used in the service of the public to provide transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph, telecommunication or other services, provided that such roads, structures or facilities are not materially changed or enlarged, and written notice prior to the commencement of work has been given to the permitting officer, and provided that the work is conducted using best management practices to ensure that flow and circulation patterns and chemical and biological characteristics of the wetland are not impaired, and that any adverse effect on the aquatic environment will be minimized.
(2)
Temporary water-level stabilization measures associated with ongoing silvicultural operations.
(3)
Limited ditching, tilling, dredging, excavating or filling done solely for the purpose of maintaining or repairing existing drainage systems necessary for the cultivation of agricultural crops, provided the maintenance or repair activity does not result in the impairment, alteration or loss of wetlands not previously subject to agricultural and silvicultural use under the terms and provisions of section 14-87(4).
(4)
Limited excavating and filling necessary for the repair and maintenance of piers, walkways, nature trails, observation decks, wildlife management shelters, boathouses or other similar water-related structures, provided such facilities and structures are built on pilings to allow unobstructed flow of water and preserve the natural contour of the wetland.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.3)
Sec. 14-89. - Site plans.
Applications for a local development permit within the generalized wetland protection district shall include a site plan, drawn to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, unless a different scale is approved, in advance, by the permitting officer, with the following information:
(1)
A map of all planned excavation and fill, including calculations of the volume of cut and fill involved with cross-sectional drawings showing existing and proposed grades. Elevations, horizontal scale and vertical scale must be shown on the cross-sectional drawings.
(2)
A map of any wetland boundaries occurring within the site must be provided. This boundary may be included on other maps provided by the applicant.
(3)
Location, dimensions and area of all impervious surfaces, both existing and proposed, on the site and adjacent to the site for a distance of 200 feet.
(4)
The orientation and distance from the boundaries of the subject site to the nearest bank of an affected perennial stream or water body.
(5)
Elevation of the site and adjacent lands within 200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than two feet; and no greater than one foot for slopes less than or equal to two percent.
(6)
Location and detailed design of any spill and leak collection systems designed for the purpose of containing hazardous or toxic materials released accidently.
(7)
All proposed temporary disruptions or diversions of local hydrology.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.4)
Sec. 14-90. - Activities to comply with site plan.
All development activities or site work conducted after approval of the site plan shall conform with the specifications of said site plan. The site plan may be amended only with approval of the permitting officer. The permitting officer may require additional information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of this division or to evaluate the proposed use in terms of the purposes of this division.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.5)
Sec. 14-91. - Subdivision approval in the wetland protection district.
Any application for subdivision approval shall include a jurisdictional determination approved by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. If the Corps determines that wetlands are present and that a section 404 permit or letter of permission is required, subdivision approval will be issued only following issuance of the section 404 permit or letter of permission.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.6)
Sec. 14-92. - Subdivision design options in the wetland protection district.
modified
Any subdivision that includes jurisdictional wetlands shall be allowed and encouraged to use the following options:
(1)
Lot size averaging. Lot size averaging is encouraged in single-family detached subdivisions as a means to work around wetland areas. The permitting officer may allow a reduction in lot size provided the same number of lots in the same subdivision are oversized by an equal or greater area. The maximum permissible reduction shall not exceed 25 percent of the minimum required lot area. The number of lots with areas reduced shall not exceed 25 percent of the total number of lots in the subdivision. The permitting officer shall allow no more than a 25 percent adjustment of rear, side and front setbacks for each affected lot.
(2)
Cluster development. Clustering of residential development is encouraged. When considering subdivision approval, the permitting officer will allow incorporation of wetland or other significant natural areas as open space in the subdivision plan. Such plans should designate at least 25 percent of the gross land area as open space. Density shall be calculated by subtracting from the total acreage of a parcel, all land dedicated or in use for private or public roads, including all vehicular rights-of-way. The resultant acreage will then be divided by the minimum allowed lot size of the district to derive the number of lots permissible.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.7)
Sec. 14-93. - Filing fee.
At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing fee specified by the permitting officer. Filing fees up to the larger of $1,000.00 or $100.00 per acre may be required to evaluate the application. This fee may be used to retain expert consultants who will provide services pertaining to functional assessment, mitigation and wetland boundary determinations as deemed necessary by the permitting officer.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.8)
Sec. 14-94. - Enforcement authority.
The permitting officer is the department, office or individual assigned the responsibility of administering this division. The administrative authority is vested in the office of building inspector.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.9)
Sec. 14-95. - Review procedures.
The application shall be made to the permitting officer and will be reviewed within 60 days. The review period shall begin upon determination by the permitting officer that the application submitted is complete. The review period shall include the preparation of findings (approval, conditional approval or disapproval) by the permitting officer. The applicant will receive written notification of the findings of the permitting officer. If the review process is not completed within 60 days, the application is considered to be approved.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.10)
Sec. 14-96. - Appeals.
Decisions on permit applications made by the permitting officer may be appealed to the county board of commissioners. The appeal must be made with ten days of the decision rendered by the permitting officer. A public hearing shall be held for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the county board of commissioners may be appealed to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.11)
Sec. 14-97. - Duration of permit validity.
(a)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of issuance, the permit shall expire.
(b)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire six months after the date that work ceased.
(c)
Written notice of the pending expiration of the development permit may be issued by the permitting officer, but no such notification is required.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 3.12)
Secs. 14-98—14-122. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 14-123. - Permitting officer authority.
The permitting officer shall have authority to enter upon privately owned land for the purpose of performing duties required under this division, and may take or cause to be made such examinations, surveys or sampling as the permitting officer deems necessary.
(1)
The permitting officer shall have authority to enter the subject site to monitor development and to enforce this division; issue permits hereunder; and address violations or threatened violations hereof by issuance of violation notices, administrative orders and civil and criminal actions. All costs, fees and expenses in connection with such actions may be recovered as damages against the violator.
(2)
Law enforcement officials or other officials having police powers in the jurisdiction shall have authority to assist the permitting officer with enforcement.
(3)
The permitting officer shall have authority to issue cease and desist orders in the event of any violation of this division. Cease and desist orders may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction, as identified herein.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.1)
Sec. 14-124. - Bond.
The permitting officer may require a bond and with surety and conditions sufficient to secure compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit. The particular amount and the conditions of the bond shall be consistent with the purposes of this division. In the event of a breach of any condition of any such bond, the permitting officer may institute an action in a court of competent jurisdiction upon such bond and prosecute the same to judgment and execution.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.2)
Sec. 14-125. - Required removal.
When the permitting officer determines a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this division, the violator may be required to remove the structure at the discretion of the permitting officer.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.3)
Sec. 14-126. - Restoration of vegetation.
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation or fill has taken place in violation of this division, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation, as far as practicable, at the discretion of the permitting officer.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.4)
Sec. 14-127. - Notice to EPA.
If the permitting officer discovers a violation of this division that also constitutes a violation of any provision of the Clean Water Act as amended, the permitting officer shall issue written notification of the violation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the landowner.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.5)
Sec. 14-128. - Suspension; revocation.
The permitting officer may suspend or revoke a permit if the permitting officer finds the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit. The permitting officer shall cause notice of denial, issuance, conditional issuance, revocation or suspension of a permit to be published in a daily newspaper having a broad circulation in the areas where the wetland is located.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 4.6)
Sec. 14-129. - Penalties
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this division may be fined not more than $1,000.00 for each offense, or up to 60 days in jail. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 5)
Secs. 14-130—14-156. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - APPEALS

Sec. 14-157. - Jurisdiction.
All final decisions of the county board of commissioners concerning denial, approval or conditional approval of a permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this division may be appealed to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 6.1)
Sec. 14-158. - Alternative actions.
Based on the proceedings of the county superior court and the decision of said court, the county board of commissioners may, within the time specified by the court, elect to:
(1)
Institute negotiated purchase or condemnation proceedings to acquire an easement or fee interest in the applicant's land;
(2)
Approve the permit application with lesser restrictions or conditions (i.e., grant a variance); or
(3)
Institute other appropriate actions ordered by the court that fall within the jurisdiction of the county board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(01), § 6.2)
Secs. 14-159—14-184. - Reserved.
