ARTICLE VI. - TIMBER HARVESTING

Sec. 14-457. - Requirements.
Any individual, partnership, corporation or any other entity (hereinafter called the harvester) who harvests standing timber in any unincorporated area of the county for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts or wood chips to any wood yard or processing plant located inside or outside this state will be required to perform the following:
(1)
The harvester must fill out an application with the county building inspector, the designated agent of the board of commissioners, within 48 hours (excepting weekends and legal holidays), after start-up (moving in of equipment or cutting of any trees). The application form shall be as prescribed by the commissioners and shall agree with the form prescribed by the director (state forestry commission form 12-6-24) and contain the following information:
a.
The name, address and phone number of the harvester.
b.
The name, address and phone number of the owner of the property where the timber is to be harvested.
c.
The location of the property on which the harvesting operation will be located along with an attached map showing the main point of ingress from a public road and the main point of egress to a public road if different. All points of ingress and egress are subject to the approval of the county road superintendent.
d.
The roads in the county upon which motor vehicles will travel transporting the harvested timber.
e.
The date cutting operations are expected to commence and end.
(2)
The harvester shall post a cash bond, surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit as provided for in this subsection, in the amount of $5,000.00, payable to the county. The purpose of the bond is to insure that all damages to roadways, ditches, or rights-of-way are corrected and said areas left at least in the same condition as existing immediately prior to the operations start-up. A separate bond must be furnished for each harvesting operation in the county. Notice shall not be or remain effective for such harvesting operations unless and until the person or firm providing such notice has delivered to the governing authority or its designated agent a valid surety bond, executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state, protecting the county against any damage cause by harvester. However, at the option of harvester, a valid irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or savings and loan association, as defined by O.C.G.A. § 7-1-4 in the amount of $5,000.00 may be provided in lieu of bond.
(3)
Before issuance of a permit, the county road superintendent shall inspect the site to determine if a culvert (size and length) is necessary. If deemed necessary, it shall be the option of the harvester to either install the driveway and any drainage pipes of appropriate specifications as determined by the road superintendent or request the county to install said driveway at the expense of the harvester. Also, when the site is inspected by the road superintendent, the existing conditions of roads and public property shall be documented. The road superintendent and the harvester are required to sign documentation form.
(4)
No equipment, trucks, or trailers used in connection with timber harvesting shall be left unattended or parked on any county right-of-way or public property. Harvesters shall not damage county roads and shall take appropriate action to ensure all trucks hauling timber do not exceed load limits for county roads being used.
(5)
A minimum of four warning signs, two in each direction of the road entrance to the timber operation. Two signs, one in each direction, shall be located 500 feet in each direction from the entrance and shall state: "Slow Truck Entering Highway." Two signs, one in each direction, shall be located 1,000 feet from the entrance and shall state: "Warning: Logging Operation Ahead." Each of the four signs shall be 36 inches by 36 inches, orange in color, and shall be posted at least three feet from the travel surface of the roadway.
(6)
The harvester shall give the county written notice of completion within 72 hours of such. Within five days of such notice, the county shall inspect the county roads and public property used by the harvester to determine if the property has been returned to a condition that is at least equal to that prior to harvest. If it is determined that roads and property are not in a proper state of condition, the county shall provide written notice to the timber harvester specifying the action which will have to be performed to correct said conditions. The harvester shall have 15 days from notification to complete said repairs. If the necessary repairs are not completed within the given time period, or if the repairs are not made in accordance with applicable standards which are acceptable to the county, the county may proceed to remedy said defects using the proceeds from any surety bond to pay for such work. Any portion of a surety bond that is not required or used shall be repaid to the permit holder. Any harvester who does not take appropriate action to remedy the problem shall pay all cost incurred by the county to repair any problems and return the property to as good condition as previously existed. In this case, the county may use its own personnel, and/or enter into such contracts with independent contractors as it deems necessary to rectify the problem.
(7)
The harvester shall notify the county tax assessors' office of actual completion date on each site.
(Ord. No. 2011-1, § 1, 3-1-2011)
Sec. 14-458. - Operating restrictions on roads and access sites; authority to close or cease operations.
(a)
All operations shall be conducted at a loading site off the county rights-of-way and behind the established ditch line of county roads.
(b)
Loading or skidding of logs will not be permitted on county roads.
(c)
Ditches shall be kept clear of all debris or residue at all times to allow for proper drainage.
(d)
County roads at the access site shall be kept serviceable at all times for the passing public, emergency vehicles, school buses, mail carriers, etc.
(e)
No logging trucks can use roads in the county during periods of significant rain. Written notice shall be given to owners of trucks to cease using roads in the county for a specific period of time during inclement weather conditions. If an owner or operator continues to use any road, that person shall be in violation of this article.
(f)
The county road superintendent has the authority to close down all operations when it is determined that the county roads and access sites are not being properly maintained. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the person or persons in charge of the activity at the harvesting site and shall state the conditions under which the work may be resumed. When an emergency exists, the sheriff is authorized to stop work with no written notice.
(Ord. No. 2011-1, § 2, 3-1-2011)
Sec. 14-459. - Penalties.
Any harvester who shall willfully fail to comply with this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, amenable to the process of the magistrate court of the county and, upon conviction, shall be punished according to section 1-15. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offence.
(Ord. No. 2011-1, § 3, 3-1-2011)
Sec. 14-460. - Enforcement.
This article shall be enforced by the county code enforcement officer. Citations for violations shall require an appearance before the magistrate court of the county.
(Ord. No. 2011-1, § 4, 3-1-2011)
