ARTICLE IV. - RIVER CORRIDOR PROTECTION
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-305. - Findings and purpose.
(a)
The state has determined river corridors are of vital importance to the quality of life in the state in that they help preserve those qualities that make a river suitable as a habitat for wildlife, a site for recreation, and a source for clean drinking water. River corridors are fragile natural resources subject to flood, erosion, soil-bearing capacity limitation, and other natural and human induced hazards. In their natural state they serve multiple functions, including pollution control, aquifer recharge and discharge, storage and passage of flood water, erosion and sedimentation control, as well as wildlife habitat, education, scientific study, open space and recreation, and scenic and aesthetic beauty.
(b)
The state's Comprehensive Planning Act of 1989 provided for coordinated and comprehensive planning by municipal and county governments, including consideration for the natural resources, environments, and vital areas within their jurisdictions. The O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8 authorized the department of natural resources to develop minimum planning standards and procedures for the protection of river corridors in the state, and requires local governments to use these minimum standards in developing and implementing local comprehensive plans. The method mandated in O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8 for protecting river corridors is establishment of a natural vegetative buffer bordering each protected river. In 1993, the county developed a river corridor protection plan, as authorized in O.C.G.A. § 36-70-3, to maintain the integrity of the Flint River.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 1.1)
Sec. 14-306. - Title; purpose.
This article shall be known as the "river corridor protection ordinance" of the county. The purposes of this article are to provide for protection of the river corridor by regulating activities in or adjacent to the corridor; provide for the powers and duties of the county; provide goals, guidelines, practices, procedures, policies, rules, and regulations; provide minimum standards for regulated activities within the river corridor; provide for a review of decision; provide for hearings and judicial review; provide for enforcement; prohibit certain activities or actions; provide for civil and other penalties; repeal conflicting ordinances; and other purposes.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 1.2)
Sec. 14-307. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer orbuffer area: See River corridor.
Comprehensive plan means the comprehensive plan for Macon County, and as may be amended.
Contaminant means any "regulated substance," as defined by the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as in effect on the date of passage of the ordinance from which this article is derived and as amended from time to time, and all petroleum products, including gasoline, oil, waste oils, and other fuels as well as their hazardous constituents.
Hazardous material means any "contaminant," as defined in this article, and any hazardous chemical for which a material safety data sheet must be filed in 42 USC 11021 and 11022.
Hazardous waste means any solid waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environment Protection Agency according to federal act, which are in force and effect on February 1, 1988, codified as 40 CFR 261.3.
Land-disturbing activity means any grading, scraping, excavating, or filling of land; clearing of vegetation; and any construction, rebuilding, or alteration of a structure. The term "land-disturbing activity" does not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, yard and grounds upkeep, repairs, additions or minor modifications to a single-family dwelling, or the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Natural vegetative buffer orbuffer area means a river corridor containing the flora native to that area. The natural floras for specific areas are described in Georgia Geologic Survey Bulletin 114, The Natural Environments of Georgia. Habitats for endangered and threatened species may require human management of the river corridor in order to maintain those species.
Perennial river means a river or section of a river that flows continuously throughout the year.
Person means any individual, group of individuals, association, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, estate, organization, or legal entity of any kind, including municipal corporations, government agencies, or subdivisions thereof.
Protected river means any perennial river or watercourse with an average annual flow of at least 400 cubic feet per second as determined by appropriate U.S. Geological Survey documents. By this definition, the Flint River in the county is a protected river.
Public utility or utilities means a service or services provided by a public utility company or a private entity which provides such service or services and including all equipment and structures necessary to provide such services.
River bank means the rising ground, bordering a river, which serves to confine the water to the natural channel during the normal course of flow.
River corridor means all land, including islands, not regulated under the Metropolitan River Protection Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-440 et seq., or the Coastal Marshland Protection Act, O.C.G.A. §§ 12-5-280 through 12-5-293, in areas of a protected river and being within 100 feet horizontally on both sides of the river as measured from the river banks.
(1)
The 100-foot buffer shall be measured horizontally from the uppermost part of the river bank, usually marked by a break in slope. Although not within the measured 100-foot-wide buffer, the area between the top of the bank and the edge of the river water shall be treated in the same manner as the river corridor.
(2)
Because stream channels move due to natural processes such as meandering, river bank erosion, and jumping of channels, the river corridor may shift with time. For the purpose of this article, the river corridor shall be considered to be fixed at its position at the beginning of each review period for the local comprehensive plan as established by the department of community affairs. Any shift in the location of the protected river after the start of the review period will require a revision of the boundaries of the river corridor at the time of the next review by the department of community affairs.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 10)
Sec. 14-308. - Appeal.
Decisions on permit applications made by the permitting officer may be appealed to the county board of commissioners. The appeal must be made with ten days of the decision rendered by the permitting officer. A public hearing shall be held for appeals. Public announcement of the hearing shall be printed in a local newspaper of general circulation at least 15 days, but not more than 45 days prior to the hearing. Any person may offer testimony at the hearing. The decision of the county board of commissioners may be appealed to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 11)
Sec. 14-309. - Penalties.
Any person who commits, takes part in or assists in any violation of any provision of this article shall be punished according to the general penalties described in section 1-15. Each violation shall be a separate offense and, in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 7.1)
Sec. 14-310. - Applicability.
The standards and procedures detailed in this article shall be applicable throughout unincorporated areas of the county as of and after the date set forth herein.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 2)
Sec. 14-311. - Protection criteria.
(a)
A natural, vegetative buffer 100 feet wide and parallel to the Flint River shall be maintained adjacent to the river except as may otherwise provided herein.
(b)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited within the river corridor, except as provided in section 14-341.
(c)
The natural vegetative buffer shall be restored as quickly as possible following any land-disturbing activity within the river corridor.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 3)
Secs. 14-312—14-340. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE RIVER CORRIDOR

Sec. 14-341. - Permitted activities.
The following uses and activities are permitted within the river corridor:
(1)
Detached single-family dwellings and customary appurtenances shall be permitted within the corridor subject to the following conditions:
a.
The dwelling and its customary appurtenances shall comply with all local building codes, zoning regulations and any other applicable, local regulations.
b.
The dwelling must be located on a tract of land containing at least two acres. No portion of the required minimum acreage shall be located between the river bank and water's edge.
c.
Only one dwelling is permitted on each two acre or larger tract.
d.
Septic tank or tanks serving only detached, single-family dwellings may be located within the corridor; however, septic tank drainfields shall not be located within the corridor.
(2)
Construction of road crossings and utility crossings within the river corridor shall be permitted, provided construction meets all requirements of the Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act of 1975, as amended, and any applicable local ordinances pertaining to soil erosion and sedimentation control.
(3)
Industrial and commercial land uses existing prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived are exempt from the protection criteria of this division, except as provided in this article, provided that:
a.
Said use of the river corridor does not impair the drinking quality of the river water;
b.
Activity within the river corridor meets all state and federal environmental rules and regulations.
c.
Timber production and harvesting provided the activity is consistent with the Georgia forestry commission's best management practices, and the activity does not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Clean Water Act, as amended;
d.
Wildlife and fisheries management activities are consistent with the purposes of O.C.G.A. § 12-2-8;
e.
Wastewater treatment;
f.
Recreational usage is consistent with either the maintenance of a natural vegetative buffer or with river-dependent recreation;
g.
Natural water quality treatment or purification;
h.
Agricultural production and management provided:
1.
The activity is consistent with the state soil and water conservation commission's best management practices;
2.
The activity does not impair the drinking quality of the river water as defined by the Clean Water Act, as amended;
3.
The activity is consistent with all other state and federal laws and state department of agriculture regulations;
4.
Other uses permitted by the state department of natural resource or section 404 of the U.S. Clean Water Act.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 4)
Sec. 14-342. - Prohibited activities.
The following uses and activities are prohibited within the river corridor:
(1)
Hazardous waste or solid waste landfills, and construction and demolition (C&D) landfills.
(2)
Commercial or industrial uses that involve handling hazardous materials other than wastes.
(3)
Handling areas for the receiving and storage of hazardous wastes.
(4)
Construction within the river corridor is prohibited with the exception of those activities permitted in this article.
(5)
Surface mining activities.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 5)
Sec. 14-343. - Previously existing uses.
Any land use or land-disturbing activity, including all human endeavors directly associated with such use or activity, which falls within one of the following categories prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this division is derived, is exempt from the requirement of this division:
(1)
Is completed;
(2)
Is under construction;
(3)
Is fully approved by the county;
(4)
All materials have been submitted for approval by the county; or
(5)
Is zoned for such use and expenditures in excess of $2,500.00 have been made in preparation for construction in accordance with such zoning.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 8)
Secs. 14-344—14-374. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - PERMITS

Sec. 14-375. - Required; issuance.
(a)
All persons desiring to undertake a permitted activity within a river corridor as mapped by the appropriate state and federal agencies must first obtain a permit from the permitting officer. Permit applications shall be filed at the Office of Building Inspector, Sumter Street, Oglethorpe, Georgia, 31068.
(b)
Permits shall be issued only if the activity is in compliance with county regulations and other applicable state, federal, and local regulations. The permitting officer, as an agent for the county, shall impose conditions on any permit necessary to ensure that any adverse impacts upon the functions and values of the river corridor are prevented or kept to a minimum.
(c)
If construction described in the development permit has not commenced within six months from the date of permit issuance, the permit shall expire.
(d)
If construction described in the development permit is suspended or abandoned after work has commenced, the permit shall expire six months after the date work ceased.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 6)
Secs. 14-376—14-393. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - VARIANCES

Sec. 14-394. - Granting and approval process.
A variance may be approved if such approval is not contrary to the public interest and where, because of the special characteristics of the property and/or the activity, a literal enforcement of provisions of this article will, in an individual case, result in unnecessary hardship. However, the spirit of this division must be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done; provided that the variance, if granted, will not result in damage to the river corridor.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.1)
Sec. 14-395. - Procedure.
Application for variance shall be filed with the permitting officer; such application must be filed 30 days before the date of the next county commissioner meeting in order that the required public notice may be given before the next scheduled meeting. Each application shall be accompanied by a simple sketch of the site, showing the following:
(1)
General location of the proposed structure as well as existing structures;
(2)
Location in relation to river corridor;
(3)
Such other data as needed for determination of variance.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.2)
Sec. 14-396. - Public hearing.
A public hearing shall be held by the board of commissioners for the review of an application for a variance. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least 15 days before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.2.1)
Sec. 14-397. - Fee.
Each application for a variance shall be accompanied by an application fee in the amount established by the county board of commissioners to partially defray administrative costs.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.2.2)
Sec. 14-398. - Conditions and limitations.
The board of commissioners shall include any condition, requirement, or limitation which may be necessary to protect adjacent properties and to carry out the provisions of this resolution.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.2.3)
Sec. 14-399. - Standard for review.
The application of this article to the particular property will result in unnecessary hardship; and:
(1)
It is proven to the satisfaction of the permitting officer that no damage to the river corridor will result from the requested activity; and
(2)
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this article.
(Ord. of 2-18-1999(03), § 9.2.4)
Secs. 14-400—14-426. - Reserved.
