ARTICLE VII. - OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES

Sec. 78-166. - Requirements.
(a)
Off-street automobile parking and loading and unloading spaces shall be provided, as specified in this chapter, for uses and structures hereafter established.
(b)
Any building or use that is subsequently enlarged shall meet the off-street parking and loading and unloading space requirements of this chapter for the addition made.
(Code 2004, § 39-701)
Sec. 78-167. - Plan and design standards for off-street parking.
The following are plan and design standards for off-street parking:
(1)
Required area for each parking space. Each automobile parking space shall be not less than nine feet wide and 21 feet deep. Adequate interior driveways shall connect each parking space with a public right-of-way.
(2)
Interior driveways. Interior driveways, when used with:
a.
Ninety-degree angle parking shall be at least 24 feet wide;
b.
Sixty-degree angle parking shall be at least 12 feet wide; and
c.
Parallel parking or where there is no parking, at least ten feet wide for one-way traffic and at least 20 feet wide for two-way traffic.
(3)
Surfacing, drainage and lighting. All off-street parking shall be properly drained and surfaced to avoid water and dust problems. If the off-street parking facilities are used at night, they shall be properly illuminated for the safety of pedestrians and vehicles and for policing. The lighting shall be designed so as not to reflect into or cause glare in any residential district.
(4)
Location of required off-street parking spaces on other property. If the required automobile off-street parking spaces cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, such spaces may be provided on other off-street property lying not more than 400 feet from the main entrance to the principal use. In this situation, the applicant shall submit with his application for a use permit, a building permit or an occupancy permit an instrument duly executed and acknowledged, which accepts as a condition for the issuance of a use permit, a building permit or an occupancy permit the permanent availability of such off-street parking spaces to serve his principal use.
(5)
Sharing of required off-street parking spaces. One-half of the off-street parking spaces required by a use the peak attendance of which will be at night or on Sundays may be shared with a use that will be closed at night or on Sundays.
(Code 2004, § 39-702)
Sec. 78-168. - Minimum number of off-street parking spaces required.
The following are the minimum number of off-street parking spaces required. For uses not specifically listed, the off-street parking requirements shall be those of the most similar one.
(1)
Churches. One space for each four seats in the main auditorium.
(2)
Industrial plants. One space for each two employees on the largest working shift plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
(3)
Offices. One space for each 300 square feet of floor space.
(4)
Places of amusement or assembly without fixed seats. One space for each 200 square feet of floor space devoted to patron use.
(5)
Places of public assembly. One space for each four seats in the principal assembly room or place.
(6)
Residences. One space for each vehicle present at the residence which is operated by the family or two, whichever is greater.
(7)
Restaurants. One space for each four employees.
(8)
Retail business. One space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
(9)
Wholesale and warehousing. Two spaces for each employee plus one space for each company vehicle operating from the premises.
(Code 2004, § 39-703)
Sec. 78-169. - Plan and design standards for offstreet loading and unloading spaces.
The following are the plan and design standards for offstreet loading and unloading spaces:
(1)
Offstreet loading and unloading space shall have access from an alley or, if there is no alley, from a public street.
(2)
The offstreet loading and unloading spaces shall be so located that it causes a minimum of interference with the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians over a street, sidewalk or alley.
(Code 2004, § 39-704)
Sec. 78-170. - Minimum size and number of offstreet loading and unloading spaces required.
The minimum number and size of offstreet loading and unloading spaces required are as follows:
(1)
Retail business. One offstreet loading and unloading space at least by 30 feet for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
(2)
Wholesale business or industry. One offstreet loading and unloading space at least by 50 feet for each 10,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof.
(Code 2004, § 39-705)
Secs. 78-171—78-193. - Reserved.
