ARTICLE IX. - INDUSTRIAL USE DISTRICT

Sec. 78-238. - General purposes of manufacturing districts.
The manufacturing districts established in this article are designed to promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare. These general goals include, among others, the following specific purposes:
(1)
To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the needs of the city's expected future economy for all types of manufacturing and related activities, with due allowance for the need for a choice of sites.
(2)
To provide that such space will be available for use for manufacturing and related activities, and to protect residences by separating them from manufacturing activities and by prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development.
(3)
To encourage manufacturing development which is free from danger of fire, explosions, toxic and noxious matter, radiation and other hazards, and from offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust and other particulate matter, odorous matter, heat humidity, glare and other objectionable influences, by permitting such development in areas where this chapter restricts the emission of such nuisances, without regard to the industrial products and processes involved.
(4)
To protect adjacent residential and commercial areas, and to protect the labor force in other establishments engaged in less offensive types of manufacturing and related activities, by restricting those manufacturing activities which involve fire, explosions, toxic and noxious matter, radiation and other hazards, or create offensive noise, vibration, smoke and other particulate matter, odorous matter, heat, humidity, glare, and other objectionable influences, to those limited areas which are appropriate therefor.
(5)
To protect manufacturing and related development against congestion, and appropriate in each area, by limiting the bulk of buildings in relation to the land area around them, and to one another, and by providing space off public streets for parking and loading facilities associated with such activities.
(6)
To promote the most desirable use of land and direction of building development in accord with a well-considered plan, to promote stability of manufacturing and related development, to strengthen the economic base of the city, to protect the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, to conserve the value of land and buildings, and to protect the city's tax revenue.
(Code 2004, § 39-901)
Sec. 78-239. - M-1 light industrial district.
(a)
These districts are designed for a wide range of industrial and related uses which can conform to a high level of performance standards. Industrial establishments of this type, within completely enclosed buildings, provide a buffer between residence districts and other industrial uses which involve more objectionable influences. New residential development is excluded from these districts, both to protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure the preservation of adequate areas for industrial development.
(b)
The purpose of the M-1 light industrial district is to limit industrial operations and processes to those that are not objectionable by reason of the emission of noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, gas, fumes, odors or radiation and that do not create fire or explosion hazards or other objectionable conditions.
(Code 2004, § 39-902)
Sec. 78-240. - Uses permitted.
In M-1 light industrial districts, the following uses are permitted:
(1)
Enclosed manufacturing industries meeting the performance standards established by this chapter.
(2)
Enclosed warehouse with offices.
(3)
Public utility.
(4)
Enclosed service or repair.
(5)
Machinery and transportation equipment sales and service.
(6)
Enclosed industrial processing service.
(7)
Wholesaling with offices.
(8)
Business office.
(9)
Enclosed accessory buildings.
(10)
Static electric transformer or gas regulator stations, if essential for service to this zoning district, provided:
a.
The structures are placed not less than 50 feet from any property line.
b.
The structures are enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight feet high.
c.
The lot is suitably landscaped, including a buffer strip at least ten feet wide along side and rear property lines but not extending into the required front yard, planted to meet the requirements of Chapter 42 - Natural Resources, Article VII - Buffers, Landscape and Trees, Division 2 - Buffer Regulations.
d.
No vehicles or equipment stored on the premises.
(11)
Communication towers and antennas subject to the requirements of Chapter 77, Standards for Wireless Communication Facilities.
(12)
Other light industrial uses upon the findings of the planning commission that such uses are of the same general character as those provided for herein, that meet the standards of this zoning district and which will not be detrimental to the other uses within the district as to the adjoining land uses.
(Ord. No. O-118-10, § 1, 10-21-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-118-10, § 1, adopted Oct. 21, 2010, repealed § 78-240 in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment § 78-240 pertained to similar subject matter. See Code Comparative Table for derivation.
Sec. 78-241. - Access route to M-1 light industrial districts.
Access routes or driveways to M-1 light industrial districts shall be considered to be an industrial use and are prohibited in any residential use district; provided, however, that such access routes or driveways may be permitted through a buffer strip where said buffer strip abuts on a city street, thoroughfare, county road or state highway.
(Code 2004, § 39-904)
Sec. 78-242. - Buffer zones established.
In all M-1 light industrial districts, a buffer strip at least 75 feet wide is required where said industrial district abuts a residential use district. Buffers shall be planted to meet the requirements of Chapter 42 - Natural Resources, Article VII - Buffers, Landscape and Trees, Division 2 - Buffer Regulations.
(Ord. No. O-118-10, § 1, 10-21-2010)
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-118-10, § 1, adopted Oct. 21, 2010, repealed § 78-242 in its entirety and enacted new provisions to read as herein set out. Prior to amendment § 78-242 pertained to similar subject matter. See Code Comparative Table for derivation.
Sec. 78-243. - Area, yard coverage, height and supplementary regulations.
The following regulations shall apply to industrial uses:
EXPAND
(1) District area Minimum Ten acres.
(2) Lot area Minimum 30,000 square feet.
(3) Lot frontage Minimum 150 feet.
(4) Lot depth Minimum 200 feet.
(5) Front yard Minimum 75 feet.
(6) Rear yard Minimum 25 feet.
(7) Side yard Minimum 25 feet.
(8) Building height Maximum Two stories or 40 feet, whichever is less.
(9) Location of driveways At least 100 feet from street intersection; at least 100 feet from each other measured at the center of the driveway.
  (Code 2004, § 39-906)
Sec. 78-244. - Grassing and paving required.
All driveways and parking areas on industrial lots shall be paved with concrete and all areas not paved shall be suitably grassed or landscaped, including all banks and slopes to a degree sufficient to effectively prevent erosion or siltation and sedimentation in runoff waters. All banks and slopes are to be grassed or stabilized immediately upon completion of grading.
(Code 2004, § 39-907)
Secs. 78-245—78-266. - Reserved.
