Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Lake Park, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Charter reference— Requirement or authority to codify and name code, § 2.37(b), (c).
Sec. 1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall mean the City of Lake Park, Georgia.
City council, council, governing body. The words "city council," "council" and "governing body" shall mean the city council or other lawfully constituted legislative body of the City of Lake Park.
Computation of time. When a number of days is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege, or the discharge of any duty, only the first or last day shall be counted; and if the last day shall fall on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in state law enumerating public and legal holidays, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty; however, when said following day shall be a Saturday or Sunday, the party shall have through the following Monday to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty.
State Law reference— Public and legal holidays, OCGA § 1-4-1.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean Lowndes County, Georgia.
Day. The word "day" means a calendar day, of 24 hours.
Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders if the context so admits.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural includes the singular number.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Other officials, officers, offices, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of this city.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations, trustees, receivers, and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Signature or subscription includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated right-of-way.
Writing. The word "writing" or "written" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Definitions of terms used in state statutes, OCGA §§ 1-3-1, 1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of sections of this Code printed in boldface type, italics, or otherwise, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
Sec. 1-6. - Amendment to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages.
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of the City of Lake Park, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: __________ (Set out new provisions in full) __________."
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language may be made a part of the ordinance:
"Section _____. It is the intention of the (governing body), and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of the Code of the City of Lake Park, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the governing body or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catch-lines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance.
Charter reference— Amendments to be printed in same style, § 2.37(c).
Sec. 1-8. - General penalty.
Whenever in this Code or any ordinance, or in any secondary code adopted by reference, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or whenever in such Code or secondary code adopted by reference, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor in this Code or the ordinance, the violation, concealing of a violation, or the harboring, assisting or protecting of a person charged with or convicted of a violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or any secondary code adopted by reference shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or by sentence of imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or both, in the discretion of the judge.
Charter reference— Authority to punish, § 4.10; limit of punishment, § 4.13(a).
Cross reference— Municipal court rules, § 2-10; criteria for fines for traffic violations, § 13-3.
State Law reference— Powers of courts generally, OCGA § 15-1-3; powers of judges and municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-3; sentences and fines which may be imposed by municipal courts, OCGA § 36-32-5; authorization and procedure for abatement of nuisances in cities, OCGA § 41-2-5.
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the City of Lake Park, Georgia, to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 hereof.
