Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal Home Rule Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; general authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties, municipalities, and other governmental entities, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-2 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations for acts or omissions, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; municipal acquisition and disposition of real and personal property, O.C.G.A. § 36-37-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 2-1—2-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Authority of council to bind subsequent council, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-3; councilmen incompetent to hold other municipal office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-4; effect of residence in annexed territory as qualification for office, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-5; voting when personally interested, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-6; method of calling election in the event all seats in municipal governing authority are vacant, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-13; initial terms of office of members of governing authority, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-9.

Secs. 2-19—2-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. §§ 36-34-1 et seq., 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; local government officers and employees not subject to liability for torts involving use of government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-92-3; fixing of salaries of municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; training of members of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-4; local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11; authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.

Sec. 2-40. - Personnel manual adopted.
The city has compiled the Riceboro Personnel Policy and Procedure Manual which is adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein and as amended from time to time by the city council.
Secs. 2-41—2-68. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DEPARTMENTS AND COMMITTEES

Secs. 2-69—2-116. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AGENCIES AND AUTHORITIES

Sec. 2-117. - Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission.
The city has elected to participate in the Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission (LCPC) which is governed by bylaws adopted by that commission. A copy of the LCPC bylaws are available in the office of the city clerk or from the LCPC.
(Ord. of 6-2-2009, § I(14-2))
Sec. 2-118. - Hinesville Area Metropolitan Planning Organization.
The city has elected to participate in the Hinesville Area Metropolitan Planning Organization (HAMPO) which is governed by bylaws adopted by that organization. A copy of the HAMPO bylaws are available in the office of the city clerk, from the LCPC, or from HAMPO.
Sec. 2-119. - Liberty County Water Planning Council.
The city has elected to participate in the Liberty County Water Planning Council (LCWP) which is governed by bylaws adopted by that organization. A copy of the council's bylaws are available in the office of the city clerk or from the council.
Sec. 2-120. - County-provided services.
modified
The city has elected to participate in the intergovernmental agreement by which the county, through its county board of commissioners, provides certain roadway maintenance and animal control services to the city. A copy of the intergovernmental agreement is available in the office of the city clerk or from the county board of commissioners.
/
Secs. 2-121—2-157. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Municipal finance generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; adoption of budget articles and resolutions, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-1 et seq.; political subdivision audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-7; accounting for public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-1; limitations on use of purchasing and contract procedures, O.C.G.A. § 34-4-3.1; municipal bonds, O.C.G.A. § 36-38-1; standards for city and county audits, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-8; officer responsible for political subdivision investments, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-4; public works bidding, O.C.G.A. § 26-91-1 et seq.

Sec. 2-158. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 and end on June 30 of each year.
State Law reference— Fiscal year required to be established by ordinance, O.C.G.A. § 36-81-3.
Sec. 2-159. - Fee schedule; fees established by resolution.
The city maintains a schedule of fees for permits, licenses, and other municipal charges. The amount of fees or charges imposed by the city including, but not limited to, those encompassed in the city's fee schedule, shall be established from time to time by resolution of the city council, as it deems necessary. The fee schedule compiled by the city council is adopted herein by reference as though fully set forth in this Code.
Sec. 2-160. - Identity theft prevention program.
The city has implemented an identity theft prevention program (red flag policy) to satisfy the requirements of compliance with 16 CFR 681.2 and to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting identity theft red flags, and by responding to such red flags in a manner that will prevent identity theft. The policy is adopted as though fully set forth herein. A copy of the policy is available in the office of the city clerk.
Secs. 2-161—2-188. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - RECORDS MANAGEMENT

Secs. 2-189—2-210. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. - ETHICS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-211. - Intent.
It is essential to the proper administration and operation of the city that the members of the city council be, and give the appearance of being, independent and impartial; that public office not be used for private gain; and that there be public confidence in the integrity of the city council. The city council finds that the public interest requires that they protect against such conflicts of interest by establishing appropriate ethical standards with respect to the conduct of the members of the city council in situations where a conflict may exist.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 1)
Sec. 2-212. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Complaint means a written sworn statement filed with the mayor or his designee containing specific allegations of misconduct by a member; provided, however, such allegations must be filed within six months of discovery of the alleged misconduct.
Interest means any direct pecuniary benefit, which is not a remote interest held by or accruing to a member of the city council as a result of a contract or transaction that is or may be the subject of an official act or action by or with the city. A member of the city council shall be deemed to have an interest in transactions involving:
(1)
Any person in the member's immediate family;
(2)
Any person with whom a contractual relationship exists whereby the member may receive any payment or other benefits unless the member is receiving a benefit for goods or services in the normal course of business for which the member has paid a commercially reasonable rate;
(3)
Any business in which the member is a director, officer, employee, agent, or shareholder, except as otherwise provided herein; or
(4)
Any person of whom the member is a creditor, whether secured or unsecured.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 2)
Sec. 2-213. - Certified City of Ethics program.
For purposes of qualifying for the Georgia Municipal Association's Certified City of Ethics program, the city council, as a body and as individual members, has subscribed to and pledged to conduct its and their affairs in accordance with the following ethics principles as defined in the Model Code of Ethics for Georgia City Officials published by the Georgia Municipal Association:
(1)
To serve others, and not ourselves;
(2)
To use resources with efficiency and economy;
(3)
To treat all people fairly;
(4)
To use the power of our positions for the well-being of our constituents; and
(5)
To create an environment of honesty, openness, and integrity.
Secs. 2-214—2-230. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CONDUCT STANDARDS

Sec. 2-231. - Prohibitions.
No member of the city council shall:
(1)
By conduct, give reasonable basis or the impression that any person can improperly influence him or unduly enjoy his favor in the performance of official acts;
(2)
Directly or indirectly request, exact, receive, or agree to receive a gift, loan, favor, promise, or thing of value for himself or another person if it could reasonably be considered to influence the member in the discharge of official duties, except that this prohibition shall not apply to:
a.
An occasional nonpecuniary gift of insignificant value;
b.
An award publicly presented in recognition of public service;
c.
A commercially reasonable loan or other financial transaction made in the ordinary course of business by an institution or individual authorized by state law to engage in the making of such a loan or financial transaction;
d.
Campaign contributions made and reported in accordance with state law;
(3)
Disclose or otherwise use confidential information acquired by virtue of his official position for his or another person's private gain;
(4)
Use his official position to attempt to secure privileges that are not available to the general public;
(5)
Engage in, accept employment with, or render services for any private business or professional activity when such employment or tendering of services is adverse to and incompatible with the proper discharge of official duties, except that this prohibition shall not apply to a member of the city council who is a licensed professional and appears on behalf of any applicant in such professional capacity, so long as disclosures required in this article are made 30 days prior to any action being taken, and the member is associated with the project at the time the initial application is filed;
(6)
Engage in any activity or transaction that is prohibited by law now existing or hereafter enacted which is applicable to him by virtue of being a member of the city council;
(7)
Use his position to request or require an employee to:
a.
Do clerical work on behalf of the member's family, business, social, church or fraternal interest when such work is not furthering a city interest;
b.
Perform any work outside the employee's normal course of municipal employment;
c.
Purchase goods or services to be used for personal, business, or political purposes;
d.
Work for the member personally without paying the employee just compensation;
(8)
Use government property of any kind for other than officially approved activities, nor shall he direct employees to use such property for any purposes other than those officially approved; or
(9)
Use his position in any way to coerce another person to provide any financial benefit to himself or persons having an interest.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 3)
Sec. 2-232. - Disclosure of conflicts of interest.
(a)
An appointed member of the city council who has an interest that he has reason to believe may be affected by his official acts or actions or by the official acts or actions of the city council shall disclose the precise nature of such interest by written or verbal statement 30 days prior to the city council's taking official action on a matter affecting such interest and abstain from discussion and voting. An elected member of the city council shall disclose the nature of any interest he has at the time such matter is presented to the mayor and council for discussion.
(b)
Such written or verbal statements shall be recorded into the minutes of the meeting and thus become part of the public record. Following any disclosure made pursuant to this section, the member shall refrain from all ex-parte communications with other members regarding the application in which he has an interest.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 4)
Sec. 2-233. - Disqualification.
A member of the city council shall disqualify himself from participating in any official act or action of the city which results in a pecuniary benefit to the member or a business or activity in which he has an interest, when such benefit is not available to the public at large.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 5)
Sec. 2-234. - Prohibited contracts.
The city shall not enter into any contract involving services or property with a member of the city council or with a business in which a member of the city council has an interest. This section shall not apply in the case of:
(1)
The designation of a bank or trust company as a depository for city funds;
(2)
The borrowing of finds from any bank or lending institution which offers the lowest available rate of interest in the community for such loan;
(3)
Contracts entered into in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 16-10-6;
(4)
Contracts entered into under circumstances that constitute an emergency situation, provided that the mayor prepares a written record explaining the emergency;
(5)
Contracts entered into with a member of the city council, or with a business in which a member of the city council has an interest, provided that such contract is the result of a competitive bid, disclosure of the nature of such member's interest is made prior to the time any bid is submitted, and a waiver of the prohibition contemplated by this section is issued by the city administrator following disclosure.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 6)
Sec. 2-235. - Restrictions on contracts with former councilmembers.
The city shall not enter into any contract with any person or business represented by such person, who has been within the preceding 12-month period a member of the city council, unless the contract is awarded by a competitive bid or a committee selection process.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 7)
Secs. 2-236—2-250. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BOARD OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-251. - Member qualifications and appointment.
(a)
The board of ethics of the city shall be composed of five residents of the city to be appointed as provided in this division.
(b)
Each member of the board of ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one year immediately preceding the date of taking office and shall remain a resident of the city while serving as a member of the board of ethics.
(c)
No person shall serve as a member of the board of ethics if the person has, or has had within the preceding one-year period, any interest in any contract, transaction, or official action of the city.
(d)
The mayor and city council shall each designate two qualified citizens to provide a pool of 14 individuals who have consented to serve as a member of the board of ethics and who will be available for a period of two years to be called upon to serve if appointed. The city administrator shall maintain a listing of the 14 qualified citizens.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 9(a)(1)—(3))
Sec. 2-252. - Compensation.
Members of the board of ethics shall serve without compensation.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 9(a)(4))
Sec. 2-253. - Meeting space, supplies and equipment.
The city council shall provide meeting space for the board of ethics. Subject to budgetary procedures and requirements of the city, the city shall provide the board of ethics with such supplies and equipment as may be reasonably necessary for it to perform its duties and responsibilities.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 9(a)(4))
Sec. 2-254. - Powers and duties.
The constituted board of ethics shall have the following duties and powers:
(1)
To establish procedures, rules and regulations governing its internal organization and conduct of its affairs;
(2)
To hold a hearing within 60 days after the receipt of complaint, provided that failure to hold a hearing within the specified time shall result in dismissal of the complaint as to the transaction and shall prevent refiling if a complaint arises in the same incident for at least a period of six months;
(3)
To prescribe forms, approved by the city attorney, for the disclosure required in this article and to make available to the public information disclosed as provided in this section;
(4)
To receive and hear complaints of violations of the standards required by this article;
(5)
To make such investigation and response to a complaint as it deems necessary to determine whether any person has violated any provisions of this article;
(6)
To hold such hearings and make such inquiries as deemed necessary to investigate and rule upon complaints;
(7)
To report its findings to the city council for such action as the city council deems appropriate.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 9(b))
Secs. 2-255—2-275. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - COMPLAINT PROCEDURE

Sec. 2-276. - Filing.
(a)
Any person having a complaint against any member of the city council for an alleged ethics violation shall file in writing a verified complaint setting forth the particular facts and circumstances which constitute the alleged violation against the city council.
(b)
The complaint shall be filed with the mayor, or in the event the complaint is against the mayor, shall be filed with the city council.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 8)
Sec. 2-277. - Review by investigating committee.
(a)
Upon receipt of a complaint, the mayor or city council shall appoint three members of the city council, who, along with the city attorney, shall constitute an investigating committee to determine whether the complaint sets forth significant facts and circumstances so as to warrant a hearing before the board of ethics.
(b)
In the event the complaint does not set forth sufficient facts to constitute an alleged violation and is found unjustified, frivolous or patently unfounded, it shall be dismissed and the complainant notified immediately.
(c)
In the event the complaint is found to state sufficient facts to warrant a hearing before the board of ethics, the board shall be appointed as provided in this division.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 8)
Sec. 2-278. - Appointment of hearing board.
Should the investigating committee determine a complaint warrants a hearing before the board of ethics, the mayor and council, at the first public meeting after such determination, shall select names randomly from the listing of qualified citizens until the specified five members of the board of ethics have been appointed. The board will elect one of its members to serve as chairman.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 9(a)(3))
Sec. 2-279. - Service of complaint.
The board of ethics as appointed in this article for hearing shall cause the complaint to be served on the member of the city council charged as soon as practicable. Service may be by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 10)
Sec. 2-280. - Hearing procedure.
A hearing shall be held within 60 days after filing of the complaint. The board of ethics shall conduct the hearing in accordance with the procedures and regulations it establishes but, in all circumstances, the hearing shall include the taking of testimony and the cross examination of witnesses. The decision of the board of ethics shall be rendered to the mayor and council within five days after completion of the hearing.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 10)
Sec. 2-281. - Rights of accused.
At any hearing held by the board of ethics, the member of the city council who is the subject of inquiry shall have the right to written notice of the allegations at least ten business days before a hearing, to be represented by counsel, to hear and examine the evidence and witnesses and to present evidence and witnesses in opposition or in extenuation.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 11(b))
Sec. 2-282. - Penalty.
Any member of the city council who knowingly violates any provision of the code of ethics provided in this article shall be subject to public reprimand or censure by the city council.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 11(a))
Sec. 2-283. - Appeal.
Any member of the city council or a complainant adversely affected by these findings of the board of ethics may obtain judicial review by filing an application for a writ of certiorari in the county superior court within 30 days after the decision of the board of ethics. The filing of such application shall act as supersedeas.
(Res. of 12-3-2002, § 12)
