PART I - CHARTER AND LOCAL ACTS
Subpart A - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The City of Riceboro was originally incorporated as the Village of Riceborough, Georgia, on December 21, 1819, by 1819 Ga. Laws (Act No. 54), p. 74, much of the text of which is not recoverable. (The 1819 village Charter was amended and the Village of Riceborough, Georgia, was redesignated as the City of Riceboro, Georgia, on August 20, 1926, by 1927 Ga. Laws (Act. No. 327), p. 1493. This second city Charter was amended on February 28, 1966, by 1966 Ga. Laws (Act No. 113), p. 2331 (regarding city elections), and on February 14, 1989, by 1989 Ga. Laws (Act No. 261), p. 4643 (regarding the corporate limits of the city). On February 5, 1992, a third city Charter was enacted by 1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, which was amended on March 27, 1998, by 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 586), p. 3664 (regarding corporate limits). (It should be noted that excluded from the foregoing legislative history are historical references to a February 1, 1797, act referring to "a place to be called Riceborough," since the act itself is not recoverable, and an act (1799 Ga. Laws (Act No. Unknown), p. 47), dated December 4, 1799, containing a reference to the "Town" of Riceborough, Georgia. Neither of these early acts, to the extent they are recoverable, included an incorporation of the city or its precursors.) Printed in this part is the 1992 city Charter as amended. History notes following each section in the charter identify the sections of the 1992 Charter and subsequent amendments. The sequence of sections used below is the same as in the 1992 act. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
State Law reference— Creation, dissolution, merger, boundary changes, and deannexation of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-2; municipal annexations, O.C.G.A. § 36-36-1 et seq.; home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3; limitations on home rule for municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; requirement for filing and publication of charter, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-5; incorporation of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-31-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Name.
This city and inhabitants thereof are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style "City of Riceboro, Georgia," and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 1.10)
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof to be retained permanently in the Office of Clerk and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map or Description of the corporate limits of the City of Riceboro, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such map or description certified by the City Clerk shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
(c)
In addition to the area described in subsection (a) of this section, the corporate limits shall also include the following area: The City of Riceboro is proposing to annex the area along the E.B. Cooper Highway (S.R. 119) North for a distance of 2.5 miles from its existing city limits to Union Camp, Howell Swamp Road and Easterly from the existing right-of-way of E.B. Cooper Highway (S.R. 119) for a distance of Five Hundred (500) feet and Westerly from the existing right-of-way of E.B. Cooper Highway (S.R. 119) for a distance of Five Hundred (500) feet
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 1.11; 1998 Ga. Laws (Act No. 586), p. 3664)
Sec. 1.12. - Powers and construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this Charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this Charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 1.12)
Sec. 1.13. - Examples of powers.
[Examples of powers of the city are:]
(1)
Air and Water Pollution. To regulate the emission of smoke or other exhaust which pollutes the air and to prevent the pollution of natural streams which flow within the corporate limits of the city;
(2)
Animal regulation. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at-large of animals and fowl and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted hereunder;
(3)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this Charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(4)
Building regulation. To regulate and license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing, and building trades;
(5)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and provide for the collection of license fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades and professions; to license and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such licenses and taxes; and to revoke such licenses after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(6)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the city council utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. title 22] or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(7)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(8)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists inside or outside the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations not inconsistent with general law relating to both fire prevention and detection and to firefighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(10)
Garbage fees. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, and trash collection and disposal and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing or doing business inside the city and benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation inside the city and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the municipal court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and squares in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this Charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the property limits of the city;
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including, but not limited to, a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties therefor; to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal or failure to pay the same; to authorize the extension of water, sewage, and electrical distribution systems and all necessary appurtenances by which said utilities are distributed inside and outside the corporate limits of the city; and to provide utility services to persons, firms, and corporations inside and outside the corporate limits of the city as provided by ordinance;
(21)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(22)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this Charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(23)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to insure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(24)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed police officers and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and a firefighting agency;
(25)
Public hazards; removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(26)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and, for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. title 22] or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(27)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(28)
Public transportation. To organize and operate or contract for such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(29)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulation of the Public Service Commission;
(30)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights of way of streets and roads or within view thereof, inside or abutting the corporate limits of the city and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(31)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement plan for officers and employees of the city;
(32)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish, or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; to negotiate and execute leases over, through, under, or across any city property or the right of way of any street, road, alley, and walkway or portion thereof within the corporate limits of the city for bridges, passageways, or any other purpose or use between buildings on opposite sides of the street and for other bridges, overpasses, and underpasses for private use at such location and to charge a rental therefor in such manner as may be provided by ordinance; to authorize and control the construction of bridges, overpasses, and underpasses within the corporate limits of the city; to grant franchises and rights of way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities and for private use; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(33)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewage system; to levy on those to whom sewers and sewage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charge and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(34)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse; and to regulate the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials; and to provide for the sale of such recyclable items;
(35)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawnshops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors;
(36)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(37)
Ad valorem taxes. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(38)
Other taxes. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(39)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(40)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(41)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; to exercise all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated herein; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this Charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 1.13)
Sec. 1.14. - Exercise of powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution as provided by this Charter. If this Charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 1.14)
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Sec. 2.10. - City council creation; number; election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and four councilmembers. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.10)
Sec. 2.11. - City council terms and qualifications for office.
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilmember unless he shall have been a resident of the city immediately prior to the date of the election of mayor or councilmembers; each such person shall continue to reside inside the city during said period of service and to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.11)
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancy; filling of vacancies; suspensions.
(a)
The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the incumbent's death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any manner authorized by this Charter or the general laws of the State of Georgia. A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this Charter.
(b)
Upon the suspension from office of mayor or councilmember in any manner authorized by the general laws of the State of Georgia, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the duration of the suspension. If the suspension becomes permanent, then the office shall become vacant and shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided for in this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.12)
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.13)
Sec. 2.14. - Conflicts of interest; holding other offices.
(a)
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or political entity to which this Charter applies shall knowingly:
(1)
Engage in any business or transaction or have a financial or other personal interest, direct or indirect, which is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or which would tend to impair the independence of his judgment or action in the performance of his official duties;
(2)
Engage in or accept private employment or render services for private interests when such employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official duties or would tend to impair the independence of his judgment or action in the performance of his official duties;
(3)
Disclose confidential information concerning the property, government, or affairs of the governmental body by which he is engaged without proper legal authorization or use such information to advance the financial or other private interest of himself or others;
(4)
Accept any valuable gift, whether in the form of service, loan, thing, or promise, from any person, firm, or corporation which to his knowledge is interested, directly or indirectly, in any manner whatsoever in business dealings with the governmental body by which he is engaged; provided, however, that an elected official who is a candidate for public office may accept campaign contributions and services in connection with any such campaign;
(5)
Represent other private interests in any action or proceeding against this city or any portion of its government; or
(6)
Vote or otherwise participate in the negotiation or in the making of any contract with any business or entity in which he has financial interest.
(b)
Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department of the city shall disclose such private interest to the city council. The mayor or any councilmember who has a private interest in any matter pending before the city council shall disclose such private interest and such disclosure shall be entered on the records of the city council, and he shall disqualify himself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto. Any elected official, appointed officer, or employee of any agency or political entity to which this Charter applies who shall have any private financial interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such entity shall disclose such private interest to the governing body of such agency or entity.
(c)
No elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the city or any agency or entity to which this Charter applies shall use property owned by such governmental entity for personal benefit, convenience, or profit except in accordance with policies promulgated by the city council or the governing body of such agency or entity.
(d)
Any violation of this section which occurs with the knowledge, express or implied, of a party to a contract or sale shall render said contract or sale voidable at the option of the city council.
(e)
Except where authorized by law, neither the mayor nor any councilmember shall hold any other elective or compensated appointive office in the city or otherwise be employed by said government or any agency thereof during the term for which he was elected. No former mayor and no former councilmember shall hold any compensated appointive office in the city until one year after the expiration of the term for which he was elected.
(f)
No appointive officer and no employee of the city shall continue in such employment upon qualifying as a candidate for nomination or election to any public office.
(g)
[Commit malfeasance.]
(1)
Any city officer or employee who knowingly conceals such financial interest or knowingly violates any of the requirements of this section shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or position and shall be deemed to have forfeited his office or position.
(2)
Any officer or employee of the city who shall forfeit his office or position as described in paragraph [(g)](1) above shall be ineligible for appointment or election to or employment in a position in the city government for a period of three years thereafter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.14)
Sec. 2.15. - Inquiries and investigations.
The city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.15)
Sec. 2.16. - General power and authority of the city council.
Except as otherwise provided by the charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city as provided by Article I of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.16)
Sec. 2.17. - Eminent domain.
The city council is hereby empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks and playgrounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public building, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment facilities, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.17)
Sec. 2.18. - Organizational meetings.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on the first Tuesday in January. The meeting shall be called to order by the city clerk and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear)(affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor) (councilmember) of this city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and the United States of America."
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.18)
Sec. 2.19. - Regular and special meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or two members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible two days prior to such meetings.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.19)
Sec. 2.20. - Rules of procedure.
(a)
The city council shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this Charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All committees and committee chairmen and officers of the city council shall be appointed by the mayor and shall serve at his pleasure. The mayor shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.20)
Sec. 2.21. - Quorum; voting.
Three councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the journal. Except as otherwise provided in this Charter the affirmative vote of two councilmembers shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.21)
Sec. 2.22. - Ordinance form; procedures.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance should be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "The Council of the City of Riceboro hereby ordains … " and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided in Section 2.24 of this Charter. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and to each councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.22)
Sec. 2.23. - Action requiring an ordinance.
Acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.23)
Sec. 2.24. - Emergencies.
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or two councilmembers and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists, and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at the meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least two councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.24)
Sec. 2.25. - Codes of technical regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that: (1) the requirements of subsection (b) of Section 2.22 of this Charter for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and (2) a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to Section 2.26 of this Charter.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for distribution or for purchase at a reasonable price.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.25)
Sec. 2.26. - Signing; authenticating; recording; codification; printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by his signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose, all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Riceboro, Georgia." Copies of the Code shall be furnished to all officers, departments and agencies of the city, and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this Charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this Charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.26)
Sec. 2.27. - Election of mayor; forfeiture; compensation.
The mayor shall be elected and serve for a term of four years and until his successor is elected and qualified. He shall be a qualified elector of this city and shall have been a resident of the city immediately preceding his election. He shall continue to reside inside this city during the period of his service. He shall forfeit his office on the same grounds and under the same procedure as for councilmembers. The compensation of the mayor shall be established in the same manner as for councilmembers.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.27)
Sec. 2.28. - Mayor pro tem.
By a majority vote, the city council shall elect a councilmember to serve as mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall assume the duties and powers of the mayor during the mayor's disability or absence. Any such disability or absence shall be declared by a majority vote of the city council.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.28)
Sec. 2.29. - Powers and duties of mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes, and be the official spokesman for the city and the chief advocate of policy;
(3)
Have the power to administer oaths and take affidavits;
(4)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing;
(5)
Prepare and submit to the city council a recommended annual operating budget and recommended capital budget;
(6)
Fulfill such other executive and administrative duties as the city council deems appropriate;
(7)
Vote in the event that there is a tie vote on a matter before the city council;
(8)
Be the chief executive of the city;
(9)
See that all laws and ordinances of the city are faithfully executed;
(10)
Exercise supervision over all executive and administrative activities;
(11)
Submit to the city council at least once a year a statement covering the financial conditions of the city, and from time to time, such other information as the city council may request;
(12)
Recommended [Recommend] to the city council such measures relative to the affairs of the city, improvement of the government, and promotion of the welfare of its inhabitants as he may deem expedient;
(13)
Call special meetings of the city council as provided for in subsection (b) of Section 2.19 of this Charter;
(14)
Provide for an annual audit of all accounts of the city;
(15)
Require any department or agency of the city to submit written reports whenever he deems it expedient; and
(16)
Perform such other duties as may be required by law, this Charter, or by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 2.29)
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT, GENERAL AUTHORITY, AND ORDINANCES

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and service departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties, and establish, abolish or alter all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the mayor, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of his department or agency.
(e)
All directors under the supervision of the mayor shall be nominated by the mayor with confirmation of appointment by the city council. The mayor may suspend or remove directors under his supervision. The mayor shall give written notice of such action and the reasons therefor to the director involved and to the city council. The director involved shall have 30 days in which he or she may appeal to the city council which, after a hearing, may override the mayor's action by a vote of three councilmembers.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.10)
Sec. 3.11. - Boards, commissions, and authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary, and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this Charter or by law.
(c)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed herein for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission or authority shall assume office until he has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of his office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
Any member of a board, commission or authority may be removed from office for cause by a vote of two members of the city council.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this Charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chairman and one member as vice-chairman, and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations not inconsistent with this Charter, ordinances of the city, or law as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.11)
Sec. 3.12. - City attorney.
The city council and mayor by majority vote shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the city council as directed; shall advise the city council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position as city attorney.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.12)
Sec. 3.13. - City clerk.
(a)
The city council and mayor by majority vote shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal; maintain city council records required by this Charter; and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
(b)
The city clerk shall be directed by the city council to collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys belonging to the city subject to the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the city, and to enforce all laws of Georgia relating to the collection of delinquent taxes and sale or foreclosure for nonpayment of taxes by the city. The city clerk shall also be responsible for the general duties of a treasurer and fiscal officer.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.13)
Sec. 3.14. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 3.14 was omitted without comment from the original act.
Sec. 3.15. - City accountant.
The city council shall appoint a city accountant to perform the duties of an accountant.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.15)
Sec. 3.16. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Section 3.16 was omitted without comment from the original act.
Sec. 3.17. - Personnel policies.
The city council shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this Charter concerning:
(1)
The method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment;
(2)
The administration of the position classification and pay plan, methods of promotion and application of service ratings thereto, and transfer of employees within the classification plan;
(3)
Hours of work, vacation, sick leave, and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and the order and manner in which layoffs shall be effected;
(4)
Such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and
(5)
Such other personnel notices as may be necessary to provide for adequate and systematic handling of personnel affairs.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 3.17)
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.10. - Municipal court.
The city by ordinance shall have the authority to establish a court to be known as the "Municipal Court of the City of Riceboro" along the following lines and authority.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.10)
Sec. 4.11. - Judges.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby judges as shall be provided by ordinance. The method of selection and terms of such judges shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless he shall have attained the age of 21 years and shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia. All judges shall be appointed by the city council.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges may be removed for cause by a vote of three members of the city council.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, that he will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability and without fear, favor or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal required in Section 2.20 of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.11)
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.12)
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction; powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violations of this Charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offence within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 120 days or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the actual cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety bond for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for his appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, his bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution shall be issued thereon by serving the defendant and his sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on the rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and, if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this Charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
(i)
The municipal court is specifically vested with all the jurisdiction and powers throughout the geographic area of this city granted by law to mayors, recorders, and police courts, and particularly by such laws as authorize the abatement of nuisances and prosecution of traffic violations.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.13)
Sec. 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Liberty County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.14)
Sec. 4.15. - Rules.
With the approval of the city council, the judge shall have full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court; provided, however, that the city council may adopt in part or in total the rules and regulations applicable to superior courts. The rules and regulations made or adopted shall be filed with the city clerk, shall be available for public inspection, and, upon request, a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal court proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 4.15)
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS

Sec. 5.10. - Applicability of general law.
All primaries and elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Georgia Municipal Election Code" [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.].
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 5.10)
Sec. 5.11. - Nonpartisan elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party labels.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 5.11)
Sec. 5.12. - Special elections; vacancies.
In the event that the office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant for any cause whatsoever, the city council or those remaining shall appoint a successor for the remainder of the term.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 5.12)
Sec. 5.13. - Removal of officers.
(a)
The mayor, councilmembers, or other appointed officers provided for in this Charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the following causes:
(1)
Incompetence, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office;
(2)
Conviction of a crime moral turpitude;
(3)
Failure at any time to possess any of the qualifications of office as provided by this Charter or by law;
(4)
Knowingly violating any express prohibition of this Charter;
(5)
Abandonment of office or neglect to perform the duties thereof; or
(6)
Failure for any other cause to perform the duties of office as required by this Charter or by state law.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished by one of the following methods:
(1)
By the vote of three councilmembers after an investigative hearing. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by the action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as herein provided shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Liberty County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court.
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Liberty County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Riceboro.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 5.13)
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Property tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property inside the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.10)
Sec. 6.11. - Millage.
The city council by ordinance shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council by ordinance may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.11)
Sec. 6.12. - Occupation and business taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. Such taxes may be levied on both individuals and corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling therein to the extent such persons have a constitutionally sufficient nexus to this city to be so taxed. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, professions or callings for the purpose of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.18 of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.12)
Sec. 6.13. - Licenses.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to require any individuals or corporations who transact business in this city or who practice or offer to practice any profession or calling inside this city to obtain a license or permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable fee for such license or permit where such activities are not now regulated by general law in such a way as to preclude city regulations. Such fees may reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity, and if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this Charter. The city council by ordinance may establish reasonable requirements for obtaining or keeping such licenses as the public health, safety and welfare necessitates.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.13)
Sec. 6.14. - Franchises.
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of this city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, cable television companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by him. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted. As an alternative the city shall be empowered to levy a tax upon the gross sales of such organizations to all customers serviced by each supplier within the corporate limits of the city and give credit against such tax for any fee paid under the above said franchise agreement by any such organization.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.14)
Sec. 6.15. - Services charges.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and without the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.15)
Sec. 6.16. - Special assessments.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to assess and collect the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.18 of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.16)
Sec. 6.17. - Other taxes.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of this city to govern its local affairs.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.17)
Sec. 6.18. - Collection of delinquent taxes and fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.17 of this Charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due, late penalties or interest, issuance and execution of fi.fas. [fi. fa.], creation and priority of liens, making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed, revoking city licenses for failure to pay any city taxes or fees, and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.18)
Sec. 6.19. - General obligation bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this Charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.19)
Sec. 6.20. - Revenue bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.20)
Sec. 6.21. - Short-term loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.21)
Sec. 6.22. - Fiscal year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. This fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.22)
Sec. 6.23. - Preparation of budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement program, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and programs.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.23)
Sec. 6.24. - Submission of operating budget to city council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the mayor containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and such other comments and information as he may deem pertinent. The operating budget and the capital improvements budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.24)
Sec. 6.25. - Action by city council on budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed by the mayor; except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this Charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year, and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council by ordinance shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the fiscal year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 6.23 of this Charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof, to which it is chargeable.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.25)
Sec. 6.26. - Tax levies.
Following adoption of the operating budget, the city council shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of this city.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.26)
Sec. 6.27. - Changes in appropriations.
The city council by ordinance may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular, special, or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.27)
Sec. 6.28. - Capital improvements budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the city council, but no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements budget with his recommendations as to the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed program and proposed means of financing. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement, unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital improvements budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in Section 2.24 of this Charter.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital improvements budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the first day of the fiscal year. No appropriation provided for in a prior capital improvements budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the mayor may submit amendments to the capital improvements budget at any time during the fiscal year accompanied by his recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital improvements budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.28)
Sec. 6.29. - Independent audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted accounting principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this Charter. Copies of all audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.29)
Sec. 6.30. - Contracting procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney, and as a matter of course, is signed by him to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings pursuant to Section 2.21 [2.20] of this Charter.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.30)
Sec. 6.31. - Centralized purchasing.
The city council shall by ordinance prescribe procedures for a system of centralized purchasing for the city.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.31)
Sec. 6.32. - Sale of city property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the mayor and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending or widening any street, avenue, alley or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the mayor to execute and deliver in the name of the city a deed conveying said cut-off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners in exchange for rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place when such swap is deemed to be in the best interest of the city. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 6.32)
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Bonds for officials.
The officers and employees of this city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 7.10)
Sec. 7.11. - Prior ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this Charter are hereby declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 7.11)
Secs. 7.12, 7.13. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Sections 7.12 and 7.13 were omitted from the original act without comment.
Sec. 7.14. - Pending matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this Charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
(1992 Ga. Laws (Act No. 614), p. 4614, § 7.14)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Charter
Section
1819 54 74 Arts. I—VII
1927 327 1493 Arts. I—VII
1966 113 2331 Arts. I—VII
1989 261 4643 Arts. I—VII
1992 614 4614 1.10 1.10
1.11 1.11
1.12 1.12
1.13 1.13
1.14 1.14
2.10 2.10
2.11 2.11
2.12 2.12
2.13 2.13
2.14 2.14
2.15 2.15
2.16 2.16
2.17 2.17
2.18 2.18
2.19 2.19
2.20 2.20
2.21 2.21
2.22 2.22
2.23 2.23
2.24 2.24
2.25 2.25
2.26 2.26
2.27 2.27
2.28 2.28
2.29 2.29
3.10 3.10
3.11 3.11
3.12 3.12
3.13 3.13
3.15 3.15
3.17 3.17
4.10 4.10
4.11 4.11
4.12 4.12
4.13 4.13
4.14 4.14
4.15 4.15
5.10 5.10
5.11 5.11
5.12 5.12
5.13 5.13
6.10 6.10
6.11 6.11
6.12 6.12
6.13 6.13
6.14 6.14
6.15 6.15
6.16 6.16
6.17 6.17
6.18 6.18
6.19 6.19
6.20 6.20
6.21 6.21
6.22 6.22
6.23 6.23
6.24 6.24
6.25 6.25
6.26 6.26
6.27 6.27
6.28 6.28
6.29 6.29
6.30 6.30
6.31 6.31
6.30 6.32
7.10 7.10
7.11 7.11
7.14 7.14
1998 586 3664 1.11
  Subpart B - LOCAL ACTS
ARTICLE I. - JOINT FIRE PROTECTION FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT AUTHORITY[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1994 Ga. Laws (Act No. 1077), p. 4826, which was dated April 5, 1994, to be effective July 1, 1994. The sequence of sections is the same as in the act comprising it. Amendments to the original act are indicated by history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a subsequent history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. The title, enactment, severability, repealer, transitional, ratification, publication and effective date provisions have been omitted, and where a section has been amended or repealed by a later provision, only the current language has been printed. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definitions.]
As used in this Act, the term "project" means a capital outlay project or projects as defined and authorized under subparagraph of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-111(a)(1)(C) consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment.
Sec. 2. - [Created; appointment and term of members; vacancies; compensation; quorum.]
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Joint Liberty County, City of Gum Branch, City of Midway, City of Riceboro, and City of Walthourville Fire Protection Facilities and Equipment Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and, by that name, style, and title, such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The authority shall consist of 11 members, who shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
The city council of Liberty County shall appoint seven members;
(2)
The city council of the City of Gum Branch shall appoint one member;
(3)
The city council of the City of Midway shall appoint one member;
(4)
The city council of the City of Riceboro shall appoint one member; and
(5)
The city council of the City of Walthourville shall appoint one member.
(c)
No person shall be eligible to serve as a member of the authority unless that person:
(1)
Is a resident of Liberty County at the time of appointment;
(2)
Continues to reside within Liberty County during that person's term of office; and
(3)
Is a registered and qualified elector of Liberty County.
(d)
Members of the authority shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the city council authorized to make such appointment.
(e)
The initial members of the authority shall be appointed as soon as practicable after July 1, 1994, and serve for a term of office of one year and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(f)
Successors to initial members of the authority whose terms of office expire in 1995 and all future successors to members of the authority whose terms of office are to expire shall be appointed immediately preceding the expiration of such terms and shall serve for terms of office of one year each and until the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
(g)
There shall be no limit to the number of terms of office to which a person may be appointed to serve as a member of the authority.
(h)
In the event a vacancy occurs for any reason, such vacancy shall be filled by the applicable appointing authority. Any person appointed to fill such vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office and until the appointment and qualification of such person's successor.
(i)
The members of the authority shall receive no salary for their services.
(j)
The authority shall have full power to organize, adopt rules for its government, and generally to direct the affairs of the authority. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the power of the authority to exercise all of the rights and powers of and perform all of the duties and obligations of the authority.
(k)
The chairperson of the authority shall be a member elected annually by the membership of the authority. Such person shall serve as chairperson during that person's term of office.
(l)
A majority of the members in office shall constitute a quorum. The authority shall have perpetual existence; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Act shall preclude the General Assembly of Georgia from amending this Act.
Sec. 3. - [Members to act as trustees; audit of books and records.]
The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, undertakings, income, receipts of every nature, and expenditures of every kind. The financial books and records of the authority shall be audited annually by the same auditor employed to audit the books and records of the Liberty County government. Said audit shall be paid for by the authority, and copies shall be furnished to the Board of Commissioners of Liberty County. Said audit shall be a public record.
Sec. 4. - [Purpose of authority; powers.]
(a)
The purpose of the authority shall be for the acquiring, constructing, equipping, or any combination thereof, in accordance with subparagraph O.C.G.A. § 48-8-111(a)(1)(C) of a capital outlay project or projects consisting of fire protection facilities and equipment for the use and benefit of the citizens of Liberty County, the City of Gum Branch, the City of Midway, the City of Riceboro, and the City of Walthourville. The proceeds collected pursuant to the levy of the special county 1 percent sales and use tax pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 48 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.] shall only be expended for such capital outlay project purposes and shall not be expended for maintenance and operation purposes. Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the further purpose of the authority is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating adequate fire protection services, facilities, and equipment; making such facilities and the services thereof available to public and private consumers and users located in Liberty County and its environs, including municipalities inside the county; extending and improving such facilities; acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, to any persons, firms, or corporations, whether public or private, if in the sole judgment of the authority such use, lease, or sale supports the general purposes of the authority; and, doing all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient, and desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such type of undertakings.
(b)
The authority shall have the power to:
(1)
Adopt and alter a corporate seal;
(2)
Make contracts and execute all instruments necessary or convenient in connection with its purposes; and
(3)
Adopt, alter, or repeal its own bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
Sec. 5. - [Limitations on powers.]
The authority shall not have the power of eminent domain. The authority shall not have the power to issue revenue bonds or certificates of participation. The authority shall not have the power to incur any indebtedness in or for the purpose of the acquisition of real or personal property.
Sec. 6. - [Actions against authority.]
Any action brought against the authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Liberty County and such court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such action.
Sec. 7. - [Powers supplemental.]
The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized by this Act and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
Sec. 8. - [Purpose of act; liberal construction.]
This Act, being for the welfare of Liberty County and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes of this Act.
LOCAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE GEORGIA LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the Local Acts and any amendments thereto.
EXPAND
Ga. Laws
Year Act No. Page Section Local Acts
Section
1994 1077 4826 Art. I, § 1—
Art. I, § 8
