Chapter 10 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal home rule, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II; O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; standards and requirements for construction, alteration, etc., of buildings and other structures, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-1 et seq.; building trade contractors, O.C.G.A. § 43-14-1 et seq.; enforcement of adopted codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26; state minimum standards codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-21; county building, electrical, and other codes, O.C.G.A. § 36-13-1 et seq.; local government code enforcement boards, O.C.G.A. § 36-74-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 10-1. - County building regulations adopted.
The city has adopted as though fully set forth herein all building and construction regulations enacted by the Liberty Consolidated Planning Commission (LCPC), such regulations to be enforced by the city officials designated by the council or by any person designated by the county, except to the extent that they conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
Secs. 10-2—10-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - UNSAFE BUILDINGS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-21. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to provide a procedure for the city to identify and deal with the existence or occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or structures which are unfit for human habitation, commercial, industrial, or business occupancy or use and are inimical to the welfare and are dangerous and injurious to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the city.
(Ord. of 3-10-1987; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 1)
Sec. 10-22. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
Dwellings, buildings, orstructures means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation, commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design.
Housing official means the county health department employees designated by the county to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of said property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have interest of record in the county where the property is located in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any state, county or city housing authority, officer or employee, or their agents, relating to health, fire or building regulations.
Public officer means the officers who are authorized by this article to exercise the powers prescribed herein including, without limitation, the housing official.
Repair means alteration or closing of a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated that create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
(Ord. of 3-10-1987; Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 3)
Sec. 10-23. - Eminent domain.
Nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the owner of any property from receiving just compensation for the taking of property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of this state or as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police power of this state.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 9)
Sec. 10-24. - Authority to make appropriations and accept grants and donations.
The city is authorized to make such appropriations from its revenues as it may deem necessary and may accept and apply grants or donations to assist it in carrying out the provisions of this article in connection with the exercise of the powers granted hereunder.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 10)
Sec. 10-25. - Adoption of housing code.
The city has adopted the 1985 edition of the Standard Housing Code with amendments is hereby adopted by reference, the same as though it were copied fully herein.
(Ord. of 3-10-1987)
Sec. 10-26. - Authority of public officer.
The public officer shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this article, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
(1)
To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to determine which dwellings, buildings or structures therein are unfit for human habitation or are unfit for current commercial, industrial or business use;
(2)
To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and to receive evidence;
(3)
To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations; provided, however, that such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
(4)
To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
(5)
To delegate any of his functions and powers under this article the ordinance to such officers and agents as he may designate.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 6)
Sec. 10-27. - Prima facie evidence.
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 41-2-8 et seq., a finding by any authorized city or county official or employee that a property within the city is a health or safety hazard shall constitute prima facie evidence that the property is in violation of this article.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 2)
Secs. 10-28—10-57. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE

Sec. 10-58. - Preliminary investigation; notice of violation.
Whenever a request is filed with the public officer by a public authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use, or whenever it appears to the public officer, on his own motion, that any dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use, the public officer shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner or any parties in interest in such dwelling, building or structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that:
(1)
A hearing will be held before the public officer or his designated agent at a place within the county in which the property is located therein, fixed not less than ten days or more than 30 days after the serving of said complaint;
(2)
The owner and any parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
(3)
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the public officer.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(1))
Sec. 10-59. - Standards to be considered in making determination.
The public officer may determine that a dwelling, building or structure is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use if he finds that conditions exist in such building, dwelling or structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of such dwelling, building or structure; of the occupant of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures; or of other city residents. Conditions that may be considered include the following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities;
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
(3)
Dilapidation;
(4)
Disrepair;
(5)
Structural defects; and
(6)
Uncleanliness.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 5)
Sec. 10-60. - Findings; issuance of order.
(a)
If, after such notice and hearing, the public officer determines that the dwelling, building or structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation or is unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owners thereof an order:
(1)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building, or structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve such dwelling, building or structure so as to render it fit for human habitation or for current commercial, industrial or business use or to vacate and close the dwelling, building or structure as a human habitation; or
(2)
If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building or structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the dwelling, building or structure, requiring the owner or parties in interest, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such dwelling, building, or structure.
(b)
In no event shall the city require removal or demolition of any dwelling, building or structure except upon a finding that the cost of repair, alteration or improvement thereof exceeds one-half the value such dwelling, building or structure will have when repaired to satisfy the minimum requirements of this law.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(2))
Sec. 10-61. - Copy of complaints and orders to be filed with county.
A copy of any complaint or order filed or issued pursuant to this article shall also be filed in the proper office for the filing of lis pendens notice in the county in which the dwelling, building or structure is located and such filing of the complaint or order shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law. Any such complaint or order or an appropriate lis pendens notice may contain a statement to the effect that a lien may arise against the described property and that an itemized statement of such lien is maintained on a lien docket maintained by the city clerk.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 7(6))
Sec. 10-62. - Manner of service for complaints and orders; sufficient evidence shown.
(a)
Complaints or orders issued by a public officer pursuant to this article shall be served in the manner provided in this section or, in the event of conflict, in the manner prescribed by state law. Such complaints or orders shall, in all cases, be served upon each person in possession of said property, each owner, and each party in interest; and the return of service signed by the public officer or his agent or an affidavit of service executed by any citizen of this state, reciting that a copy of such complaint or order was served upon each person in possession of said property, each owner, and each party in interest personally or by leaving such copy at the place of his residence, shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person in possession, owner and party in interest.
(b)
If any of the owners and parties in interest shall reside out of the city, service shall be perfected by causing a copy of such complaint or orders to be served upon such parties by the sheriff or any lawful deputy of the county of the residences of such parties or such service may be made by any citizen; and the return of such sheriff or lawful deputy or the affidavit of such citizen, that such parties were served either personally or by leaving a copy of the complaint or orders at the residence, shall be conclusive as to such service.
(c)
Nonresidents of this state shall be served by publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the city or, in the absence of such newspaper, in one printed and published in the county and circulated in the city in which the dwellings, buildings or structures are located. A copy of such complaint or orders shall be posted in a conspicuous place on premises affected by the complaint or order. Where the address of such nonresidents is known, a copy of such complaint or orders shall be mailed to them by registered or certified mail.
(d)
In the event either the owner or any party in interest is a minor or an incompetent person or person laboring under disabilities, the guardian or other personal representative of such person shall be served and if such guardian or personal representative resides outside the city or is a nonresident of the state, he shall be served as provided for in subsection (c) of this section for nonresidents.
(e)
If such minor or incompetent person or person laboring under disabilities has no guardian or personal representative or in the event such minor or incompetent person lives outside the city or is a nonresident, service shall be perfected by serving such minor or incompetent person personally or by leaving a copy at the place of his residence, which shall be sufficient evidence as to the service of such person. In the case of other persons who live outside of the city or are nonresidents of the state, service shall be perfected by serving the judge of the county court of competent jurisdiction located in the county in which such property is located who shall stand in the place of and protect the rights of such minor or incompetent person or appoint a guardian ad litem for such person.
(f)
In the event the whereabouts of any owner or party in interest is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of such complaint or order upon such persons shall be made in the same manner as provided in this article or service may be perfected upon any person holding himself out as an agent for the property involved.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 7(1)—(5))
Sec. 10-63. - Placarding.
If the owner or parties in interest fail to comply with an order to vacate and close or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed or demolished; and that the public officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building, dwelling or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
"This building is unfit for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation or for commercial, industrial or business use is prohibited and unlawful."
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(3))
Sec. 10-64. - Removal or demolition by city.
If the owner fails to comply with any order to remove or demolish the dwelling, building or structure, the public officer may cause such dwelling, building or structure to be removed or demolished; provided, however, that the duties of the public officer, set forth in this article, shall not be exercised until the city council shall have by ordinance ordered the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this article with respect to the particular property which the public officer shall have found to be unfit for human habitation or unfit for its current commercial, industrial or business use, which property shall be described in this article.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(4))
Sec. 10-65. - Lien on property for costs.
The amount of the cost of such vacating and closing or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. The lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all cost of demolition by the city and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of said costs by the public officer in the office of the city clerk on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(5))
Sec. 10-66. - Sale of salvage; application of sale proceeds.
If the dwelling, building or structure is removed or demolished by the public officer, he shall sell the materials of such dwellings, buildings or structures and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited with the county court of competent jurisdiction by the public officer, shall be secured in such manner as may be directed by such court, and shall be disbursed by such court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of such court.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(5))
Sec. 10-67. - Other remedies preserved.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(5))
Sec. 10-68. - Lien foreclosure and collection.
The city may enforce the collection of any amount due on a lien established pursuant to this article for removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures only in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties in interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the city, within 30 days after the perfection of said lien, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to said city the remaining balance due on such lien, together with interest at the rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner or parties in interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the city.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien, or any portion thereof, be unpaid after the passage of the three-year period, or upon the occurrence of sale, transfer or other conveyance, the city may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien for alteration, repair, removal or demolition of dwellings, buildings or structures in the same manner as provided in this article and other applicable state statutes.
(4)
The procedure set forth in this section shall be subject to the right of redemption by any persons having any right, title or interest in or lien upon said property.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 4(6))
Sec. 10-69. - Appeal.
Any person aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to this article may seek injunctive relief and review as provided by state law.
(Ord. of 1-5-1988, § 8)
