Chapter 4 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.; regulation of alcoholic beverages generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 et seq.; authority of local authorities to license and regulate alcoholic beverage sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; local regulation of sales on Sundays, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-7; prohibited acts on licensed premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-40 et seq.; malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-1 et seq.; wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-1 et seq.; local licensing requirements for sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40 et seq.; requirements for sale of wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcoholic beverage is defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(2) and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine as defined in such statute.
Distilled spirits, liquor is defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(7) and includes any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all liquors and fortified wines. The term "liquor" shall be construed to mean "distilled spirits."
Election day means one hour before the polls open until one hour after the polls close on any day set aside for any general or special election for any city, county, state, and/or federal offices, referendum questions, or any other ballot questions.
Licensee means an establishment holding a license to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages. Licensee may also be used to refer to the person who makes application for and is issued a license under this chapter.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Minor is defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, as currently enacted or hereafter amended.
Premises means a defined closed or partitioned-in locality, whether room, shop or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 101; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 101)
State Law reference— Similar definitions, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.
Sec. 4-2. - Geographical applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all of the incorporated areas of the city.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 306)
Sec. 4-3. - Adoption of state statutes.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages and licensure therefor are adopted herein to the extent applicable within the jurisdiction of the city.
Sec. 4-4. - Duty of management to keep copy of chapter on premises.
It shall be the duty of the management of premises licensed hereunder to maintain a copy of this chapter on such premises and to instruct each and every employee of the terms thereof.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 208)
Sec. 4-5. - Certification by applicant of knowledge of regulations.
No person shall be approved for a license hereunder, or approved for employment by a licensee, unless such person shall have read these regulations in full text and certify in writing the fact of such reading and knowledge thereof.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 212)
Sec. 4-6. - Violations by licensee.
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by the holder of a license hereunder shall subject the holder of such license to revocation of said license in addition to all other applicable penalties for violation of this Code.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 207)
Secs. 4-7—4-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - LICENSES[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Declaration of business of manufacturing, selling and other dealings in alcoholic beverages as privilege subject to regulatory requirements, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1; powers of local authorities as to granting, refusal, suspension or revocation of licenses generally, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2; allowing or permitting of breaking of packages or drinking of contents thereof on premises prohibited, exception for sales pursuant to a license for consumption on the premises, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-26.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-31. - Required.
No malt beverage, wine, distilled spirits or any other alcoholic beverage shall be sold or manufactured in the city except under a license issued under this chapter by the city clerk's office.
State Law reference— Dealing in malt beverages at wholesale and retail prohibited without local license, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-40; county licensing fees for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-41; restriction on county licensing fees for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43; dealing in wine at wholesale and retail prohibited without local license, O.C.G.A. § 3-8-40.
Sec. 4-32. - Discretionary authority of city.
Licenses hereunder shall be mere grants or privileges and the city council shall have the discretion to approve or deny any application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 123; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 123)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1.
Sec. 4-33. - Compliance with applicable rules.
All applicable state laws, rules and regulations governing sale of alcoholic beverages must be complied with by any applicant for a license hereunder.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 211)
Sec. 4-34. - Separate application required for each location.
A separate application is required for each license class, and the city council will act upon each application separately.
Sec. 4-35. - Payment of all fees and taxes required.
No license shall be issued under this chapter unless the applicant has fully paid all license fees and taxes due under this chapter as well as all other business taxes and ad valorem taxes due to the city for the business location.
Sec. 4-36. - Classes of licenses.
The following licenses are available in the city, to the extent authorized and approved by the city council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter:
EXPAND
Class A Malt beverages for on-premises consumption
Class B Malt beverages for off-premises consumption (package)
Class C Wine for on-premises consumption
Class D Wine for off-premises consumption (package)
Class E Distilled spirits for on-premises consumption
Class F Distilled spirits for off-premises consumption (package)
  Sec. 4-37. - Application forms; applicant to provide information and produce persons upon request.
(a)
The city council shall prescribe forms for new or renewal applicants hereunder.
(b)
All applicants shall furnish all data, information and records requested of them by the city council and failure to furnish such data, information and records within 30 days from the date of such request shall automatically serve to dismiss, with prejudice, the application. Applicants, by filing an application, agree to produce for oral interrogation any person requested by the city council. Failure to produce such person within 30 days after being requested to do so shall result in the automatic dismissal of such application.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 127)
Sec. 4-38. - License issuance and renewal fees; administrative fees; proration; refunds.
(a)
Original application. Each original application for license under this chapter shall be accompanied by a certified check or cash for the full amount of the license fee, together with a separate certified check or cash for the full amount of an administrative fee to defray the cost of investigation and reporting. If the application is denied and the license refused, the administrative fee shall be retained as the cost of filing and processing the application. In addition to the fees provided for in this section, the applicant shall pay fingerprint costs.
(b)
Annual renewals. An annual license fee shall be charged for the initial license issued to any licensee hereunder, and a like amount for each renewal license. All license fees hereunder shall be paid in advance on or before December 31 of each year and any new license granted hereunder during a calendar year shall pay the full license fee without proration.
(c)
Fee amounts. The amount of annual license fees and administrative fees shall be as provided in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 304; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 304)
State Law reference— Maximum fees for municipal licenses for sale of distilled spirits, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-50; restriction on certain municipal fees for licenses for the sale of malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-43.
Sec. 4-39. - Denial of application.
(a)
If an application is denied, then the applicant shall be notified in writing of the council's decision, and the reasons therefor, within ten days. Applicant shall then have 30 days to either request reconsideration of the council's denial or appeal the council's decision to the county court of competent jurisdiction.
(b)
If an application is denied, then the applicant may not submit another application for the same proposed business premises for a period of 12 months from the council's decision.
Sec. 4-40. - Term of license.
No license shall be issued for less than a calendar-year period, or the remainder thereof, and in case of the revocation or surrender of such license before the expiration of such calendar-year period, the holder thereof shall not be entitled to receive any refund whatsoever.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 119)
Sec. 4-41. - License must be obtained and fees paid within 30 days of approval of application.
All licenses must be obtained and fees paid not later than 30 days from the date of approval of the application and, if not so obtained, the permit shall be void.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 120)
Sec. 4-42. - Licenses not transferable; exceptions for partnerships.
(a)
Licenses hereunder shall not be transferable, except as otherwise provided herein. In case of the death of any person holding such a license, or any interest therein, the same may be transferred to the administrator, executor or the lawful heirs of the deceased person, if otherwise qualified.
(b)
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit one or more of the partners in a partnership holding a license to withdraw from the partnership in favor of one or more of the partners who were partners at the time of the issuance of the license. Such a withdrawal shall not, however, serve to bring any new ownership into the partnership.
(c)
Should a transfer of a location be approved, there shall be no pro rata return of any license fee and the new location shall be considered as a new license hereunder.
(d)
However, a licensee may take in partners or additional stockholders where it is determined that the additional capital furnished is to be used exclusively for additional inventory or expanding the facilities of the business or for building new facilities and where it appears that the licensee himself receives directly none of the additional capital invested. Under this section, an additional partner or new principal stockholder must be approved by the city council.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 124)
Sec. 4-43. - Opening of establishment.
(a)
All applicants for licenses hereunder must, within six months after the approval of said license, open for business the establishment referred to in the license and begin the sale of the product or products authorized by the said license.
(b)
Failure to open the establishment and begin the sale as referred to in subsection (a) of this section within the six-month period shall serve as automatic forfeiture and cancellation of the unused license and no refund of license fees shall be made to the license holder.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 125)
Sec. 4-44. - Forfeiture of license when business not operative for three months.
Any holder of a license hereunder who shall begin the operation of the business and sale of the products as authorized in the said license, but who shall, for a period of three consecutive months thereafter, cease to operate the business and sale of the products authorized in said license shall, after said three-month period, automatically forfeit his license, which license shall, by virtue of said failure to operate, be canceled without the necessity of any further action.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 126)
Sec. 4-45. - Display of license.
All licensees hereunder shall display the license provided by this Code in a prominent place on the premises.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 204; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 204)
State Law reference— Similar provision, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-3.
Sec. 4-46. - Surrender of license upon sale, transfer, or closing of licensed business.
Any license issued under this chapter shall be immediately surrendered to the city clerk upon sale, transfer, or closing of the licensed business.
Sec. 4-47. - Renewal.
All licensees hereunder shall be required to apply for renewal of their licenses annually on forms prescribed by the city council and must comply with all the provisions.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 122)
Sec. 4-48. - Duty to report changes.
Whenever there shall be a change in any of the facts reported to the city council in the information in an application for a license, before or after such license has been granted, it shall be the duty of the licensee to report the same to the city clerk in writing within ten business days of the change.
Sec. 4-49. - Report of allegations of violations required.
(a)
All applicants for licenses, in the case of pending applications, and all licensees, in the case of issued licenses, shall immediately report to the city clerk or other officer designated by the city any allegations, and all findings and dispositions regarding allegations, of a violation by the applicant or licensee of any city, state, or federal law or regulation if the allegations:
(1)
Are made by the state department of revenue, any federal or state law enforcement officer, administrative agency, or prosecuting attorney of this or any other state;
(2)
Charge the applicant or licensee, as the case may be, with the violation of any federal or state law or regulation that could or would, in the event of a finding of guilt, result in a suspension or revocation or denial of and application for license under this chapter.
(b)
Failure to make reports required by this section shall itself be grounds for suspension or revocation of or the denial of an application for a license as the city council shall determine.
Secs. 4-50—4-71. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION

Sec. 4-72. - Suspension or revocation for due cause.
(a)
No license which has been issued or which may hereafter be issued by the city hereunder shall be suspended or revoked, except for due cause as hereinafter defined, and after a hearing and upon prior three-day written notice to the holder of such license of the time, of the place and purpose of such hearing and a statement of the charge upon which such hearing shall be held.
(b)
The term "due cause" for the suspension or revocation of such license means the violation of any laws, ordinances or resolution regulating such businesses, or violation of regulations made pursuant to authority granted for the purpose of regulating such business, or for the violation of any state or federal law, or for the violation of any municipal ordinance or county resolution other than traffic ordinances.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 121)
Sec. 4-73. - Investigations incident to disciplinary action.
The city council shall have the right to make such inquiry or investigation as it may find to be reasonably necessary to determine the licensee's compliance or noncompliance with this chapter. Such investigation may consist, among other actions, of calling licensees for examination under oath, obtaining evidence under oath from other persons, the procurement of documents and records including records of the licensee, and inspection and examination of records and documents from whatever source obtainable.
Secs. 4-74—4-104. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSURE[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Discretion and due process as to grant or suspension of permits, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2.

Sec. 4-105. - Factors considered in issuing licenses or in renewing licenses.
In determining whether or not any license applied for hereunder or any renewal or any license shall be granted in addition to all provisions of this chapter and any other provisions of this Code not inconsistent herewith, the following shall be considered in the public interest and welfare:
(1)
The applicant's reputation, character, mental and physical capacity to conduct this business.
(2)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, whether or not he has violated any law, regulation or ordinances relating to such business.
(3)
If the applicant is a previous holder of a license to sell alcoholic beverages, the manner in which he conducted the business hereunder as to the necessity for unusual police observation and inspection in order to prevent the violation of any law, regulation or ordinances relating to such business.
(4)
The location for which the license is sought as to traffic congestion, general character or neighborhood, and the effect such an establishment would have on the adjacent and surrounding property values.
(5)
The number of licenses already granted for similar businesses in the trading area of the place for which the license is sought.
(6)
Whether the person whose license issued under the police powers of any governmental entity has been previously suspended or revoked.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 107)
Sec. 4-106. - Discretionary standards of review.
The city council, in its discretion, in reviewing an application for issuance of license under this chapter, may consider any extenuating circumstances that may reflect favorably or unfavorably on issuance of the license. The judgment of the city council that circumstances are such that the granting of the license would not be in the best interest of the general public are final and may be grounds for denying the application.
Sec. 4-107. - No licenses issued to convicted persons.
(a)
No original license shall be issued to any person, partnership or corporation organized for pecuniary gain where any individual, or his spouse, having any interest either as owner, partner, principal stockholder, directly or indirectly beneficial or absolute, shall have been convicted or shall have taken a plea of guilty or nolo contendere within ten years immediately prior to the filing of said application for any felony or misdemeanor under federal law or the law of any state or any municipal ordinance or county resolution except traffic violations.
(b)
The term "conviction" shall include an adjudication of guilt or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime. Where the violation is for a misdemeanor, forfeiture of bond or violation of a municipal ordinance or county resolution, the city council, after investigation, may waive the conviction as a basis for disqualification from license.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 108)
Sec. 4-108. - Citizenship and residency requirements.
All applicants must be residents of the United States and a resident of this state. If the applicant is a corporation, the principal stockholder must meet the requirements of this section and any license that may be issued shall be issued to the corporation and the principal stockholder. If the applicant is a partnership, the requirements of this section shall apply to all partners.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 109; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 109)
Secs. 4-109—4-129. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - BUILDING REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 4-130. - Compliance with city and state law required; final inspection and approval.
The completed building or the proposed building for licensure shall comply with ordinances of the city, regulations of the state revenue commissioner, and the laws of the state. The proposed building shall also be subject to final inspection and approval, when completed, by the code enforcement inspector.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 103)
Sec. 4-131. - Exterior lighting.
Each building in which the business will be located shall provide sufficient lighting so that the building itself and all sides of the building are readily visible at all times so as to reveal all of the outside of said building.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 103)
Sec. 4-132. - Plans required.
No license for consumption on the premises shall be issued unless the building in which the premises will be located is complete and detailed plans of said building are attached to the application, or unless proposed plans and specification and a building permit of a proposed building to be built are attached to the application.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 103)
Sec. 4-133. - Proof of ownership or lease of building required.
Each applicant for a license for consumption on the premises shall attach to his application evidence of ownership of the building or proposed building or a copy of the lease if the applicant is leasing the building.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 103)
Sec. 4-134. - Toilet facilities; interior illumination.
All premises within a building for which a license for consumption on the premises shall be issued, shall afford therein adequate sanitary toilet facilities and shall be adequately illuminated so that all hallways, passageways and open areas may be clearly seen by customers therein.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 103)
Secs. 4-135—4-151. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - LOCATION RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 4-152. - Distance from libraries, churches, schools, etc.
(a)
Except as otherwise specifically provided in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21, no person knowingly and intentionally may sell or offer to sell:
(1)
Any distilled spirits in or within 100 yards of any church building or within 200 yards of any school building, educational building, school grounds, or college campus;
(2)
Any wine or malt beverages within 100 yards of any school building, school grounds, or college campus. This subsection (a)(2) shall not apply at any location for which a license has been issued prior to July 1, 1981, nor to the renewal of such license. Nor shall this subsection (a)(2) apply at any location for which a new license is applied for if the sale of wine and beer was lawful at such location at any time during the 12 months immediately preceding such application;
(3)
Any distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages within 100 yards of an alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by this state or any county or municipal government therein. This subsection (a)(3) shall not apply to any business having a license in effect on July 1, 1981;
(4)
Any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages with 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days;
(5)
Any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages for consumption on the premises within 300 feet of any property line of any library, shrine, or mortuary;
(6)
Any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages within 150 feet of any area zoned residential; or
(7)
Any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages for consumption off the premises within 150 feet of any area zoned residential.
(b)
As used in this section, the term "school building" or "educational building" shall apply only to state, county, city, or church school buildings and to such buildings at such other schools in which are taught subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state and which are public schools or private schools as defined in O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690(b).
(c)
The distances provided in this section shall be measured as follows:
(1)
With regard to establishments licensed for consumption on the premises, the distance shall be measured in a straight line and shall be computed from the property lines of the properties.
(2)
With regard to establishments licensed for consumption off the premises (package sales), the distance shall be measured from the portal or public entrance of the facilities, following the public streets or roads of the city.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 118)
State Law reference— Similar provisions regarding schools and churches, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21; similar provisions regarding polling placed, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-153. - No sales outside of licensed premises.
It shall be unlawful for any sales to be made outside of the building, premises or place of business licensed for such sale.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 205)
Sec. 4-154. - Sale from residence or home prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispense or sell alcoholic beverages to any person from any private home or residence.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 110)
Secs. 4-155—4-176. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION LICENSE RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 4-177. - License of sale for consumption on premises authorized.
With the approval of the city council, a license authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises may be issued.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 201)
Sec. 4-178. - Sale unlawful without license.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages for use or consumption on the premises without the license required herein.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 209)
Sec. 4-179. - Scope of license.
(a)
A licensee for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises shall have the right to serve beer or wine, provided he shall secure a business license therefor and pay the license fee as specified by the current business license regulations.
(b)
No licensee shall set or give away, or permit the sale or gift to, or the procuring for, any such alcoholic beverages to any minor, to any person who is mentally incompetent, or to any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 105)
Sec. 4-180. - Registration cards.
(a)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for the holder of any retail license hereunder for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages to operate a business without having a dealer registration card signed by an official designated by the city.
(b)
Employees. Every person working or serving alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises in a place of business shall have an employee registration card setting forth thereon the name of the employer and the location of the place of employment. It shall be unlawful for the holder of any retail license hereunder for consumption on the premises of alcoholic beverages to permit any person to work or serve in or about such place of business unless such person has such a registration card.
(c)
Notice upon termination. It shall be unlawful for the holder of any retail license hereunder for consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises to fail to notify the representative within five days after the termination of employment of any person registered to work in any place where alcoholic beverages are served.
(d)
Applications. Applications for registration cards will be made at the county sheriff's department, and a fee in the amount provided in the city fee schedule is required to cover the cost of laminating the permanent card. Applicants are required to have three 1½-inch by 1½-inch black and white photographs when applying for such registration card. A temporary letter will be issued upon application, the same being valid for 30 days only. The permanent registration card will be issued within 30 days from the date of application if investigation reveals that the applicant is qualified for registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 202; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 202)
Sec. 4-181. - Periodic inspections.
The business premises of the holder of consumption on the premises license shall be open to inspection at any time and all times by the officer or officials charged to conduct such inspections.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 104)
Secs. 4-182—4-200. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - OFF-PREMISES CONSUMPTION (PACKAGE) LICENSE RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 4-201. - License of sale for consumption off premises authorized.
With the approval of the city council, a license authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off the premises may be issued.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 301)
Sec. 4-202. - Sale of beer and wine in grocery stores.
Grocery stores shall be allowed to sell beer and wine by the carton and not for consumption on premises, provided they have the required beer and wine license.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 302)
Sec. 4-203. - Sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink not permitted.
Licenses for off-premises consumption shall not permit the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 305)
Secs. 4-204—4-229. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - RULES AND STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-230. - Compliance with health standards.
All persons operating establishments for the sale of alcoholic beverages within the city shall comply with the health standards of the city as prescribed by the city council.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 117)
Sec. 4-231. - Maintenance of premises; certain acts prohibited.
All premises licensed under article II of this chapter shall be kept clean and in proper sanitary condition and in full compliance with the provisions and regulations governing the conditions of premises used for storage and sale of food for human consumption. It shall be unlawful to permit any disturbance of the peace or obscenity or any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practices.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 102)
Sec. 4-232. - Misrepresentation of quality, quantity, etc., of alcoholic beverages.
It shall be illegal for licensees under article II of this chapter to add to the contents of a bottle or to refill empty bottles or in any other manner to misrepresent the quantity, quality or brand name of any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 203)
Sec. 4-233. - Advertising.
No licensee hereunder shall advertise in any manner except as provided by state law.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 206)
State Law reference— Signs advertising sale of distilled liquors, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-3; advertisement of prices for distilled liquor sales, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-26.
Secs. 4-234—4-259. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - HOURS OF SALE

Sec. 4-260. - Opening and closing hours generally.
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any establishment other than grocery and convenience-type stores engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages to remain open or sell, barter, trade or give away any such beverages between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 111; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 111)
Sec. 4-261. - Christmas day and election day closing.
It shall be unlawful for any establishment engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages to remain open on Christmas Day after the hour of 12:45 a.m. or before the hour of 8:00 a.m. on the following day or as prohibited on election days by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 112; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 112)
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages on Sundays, election days and Christmas Day, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Sec. 4-262. - Sunday closing.
(a)
Establishments licensed to pour and sell alcoholic beverages shall be closed and no alcoholic beverages shall be sold, bartered, traded or given away between the hours of 12:45 a.m. on Sunday to 8:00 a.m. Monday.
(b)
Upon the first violation of this section or state law regarding Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages witnessed by state, county, city or other law enforcement officials or determined to have occurred by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be sufficient reason for an immediate 30-day suspension of the license issued hereunder. Within the 30-day suspension period, a public hearing shall be held by the mayor and city council at which time the licensee shall have the opportunity to show why such license should not be permanently revoked.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 113; Ord. of 11-5-1998, § 113)
State Law reference— Sales of alcoholic beverages on Sundays, election days and Christmas Day, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20.
Secs. 4-263—4-287. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - MINORS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Sale to underage persons prohibited, O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-23, 3-3-23.1; restrictions on employment of underage persons, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.

Sec. 4-288. - Possession, consumption by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any minor to drink or possess any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 106)
Sec. 4-289. - Sale to minors prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dispense, sell or give to any person under the legal drinking age, as defined by state law, any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 114)
Sec. 4-290. - Sale or dispensing by minors.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the legal drinking age, as defined by state law, to dispense or sell to any other person any alcoholic beverage of any kind or character.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 115)
Sec. 4-291. - Misrepresentation of age.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the legal drinking age, as defined by state law, to willfully misrepresent his age to any other person for the purpose of inducing such other person to dispense, sell or give any alcoholic beverage of any kind or description to the person making such false representation.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 116)
Secs. 4-292—4-315. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - EXCISE TAXES[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
State Law reference— Local excise taxes on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; excise taxes on malt beverages to be paid by wholesale dealer, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-81; prohibition on requirement for markings on beverage containers regarding excise taxes, O.C.G.A. § 35-5-82; local excise taxes on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-8-60.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-316. - Levy.
The city imposes an excise tax on all alcoholic beverages sold within the city at the maximum rate permitted by state law.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 401)
State Law reference— Imposition of excise tax on malt beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-5-80; imposition of excise tax on wine, O.C.G.A. § 3-6-60; imposition by municipalities of excess taxes on distilled spirits sold by the drink, O.C.G.A. § 3-4-130.
Sec. 4-317. - Collection and payment of excise taxes on malt beverages and wine.
(a)
The excise taxes assessed herein on malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits shall be collected by the wholesale distributor selling, shipping, or delivery malt beverages or wine to any retailer located within the city.
(b)
Each wholesale distributor shall furnish to the city a summary of all purchase invoices for malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits sold to each retailer in the city on or before the tenth of each month following such purchases. The invoices shall show the amount of excise tax paid.
(c)
The city shall have the right to audit and to require production of records from each wholesaler supplying retailers in the city and each retailer so supplied.
(d)
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any wholesaler to sell, ship or deliver in any manner, any malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits to a retail dealer without collecting such tax. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any retail dealer to possess, own, hold, store, display or sell any wine on which such tax has not been paid.
Sec. 4-318. - Nonpayment of taxes as grounds for revocation.
Failure to pay the tax imposed on malt beverages and wines shall be cause for immediate revocation of license.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 402)
Sec. 4-319. - Taxes to be paid as prerequisite to acceptance of delivery.
Each retail dealer shall accept the delivery of any shipment of malt beverages and wines, only if the tax for each container thereof has been paid. Any violation of this section by any retail dealer shall be cause for the immediate revocation of the license of said retail dealer.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 403)
State Law reference— Possession of alcoholic beverages upon which taxes have not been paid, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-8.
Sec. 4-320. - Delivery to be accepted only within county.
No dealer shall purchase or accept any delivery of malt beverages or wines at any place outside of the county. Any violation of this section by any retail dealer shall be cause for the immediate revocation of the license of said retail dealer.
(Ord. of 10-6-1992(3), § 404)
Secs. 4-321—4-343. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 4-344. - Inspection and audit of books and records; failure to make reports.
(a)
The city shall have the right to inspect and audit and to require production of records from each wholesaler supplying retailers in the city and each retailer so supplied.
(b)
Such books and records shall, for wholesalers, contain information showing deliveries of any of such beverages to persons upon whom the tax hereby assessed and levied is imposed, and the monthly reports of such wholesalers shall show deliveries made to each retailer, separately, so that sales of any of the beverages described in this section may be identified with respect to each retailer upon whom the tax is imposed by this section.
(c)
The failure to make a timely report and remittance under this article shall render the dealer liable for a penalty equal to ten percent of the total amount during the first 30-day period following a date such report and remittance were due, and an additional penalty of five percent of the amount of such remittance for each successive 30-day period, or any portion thereof, during which such report and remittance are not filed.
(d)
The filing of a false, fraudulent, inaccurate, or misleading report shall render the dealer making such report liable for a penalty equal to 25 percent of the amount of the remittance which would be required under an accurate and truthful report.
(e)
Any retail or wholesale dealer's failure to make a timely report or remittance or filing of a false, fraudulent, misleading, or inaccurate report shall also constitute grounds for the suspension or revocation of any licenses issued to said dealer by the city.
Sec. 4-345. - Deficiency determinations.
(a)
Computation. If the city or the city's designee is not satisfied with the return of the tax levied under this article or the amount of the tax levied under this division required to be paid to the city by any person, the city may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of any information within the city's possession or that may come into the city's possession. One or more than one deficiency determination may be made of the amount due for one or more than one monthly period.
(b)
Interest on deficiency. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the tenth day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of payment.
(c)
Offsetting of overpayments. In making a determination, the administrator may offset overpayments for a period against underpayments for another period and against penalties and interest on underpayments.
(d)
Penalties for negligence or disregard of rules. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination has been made is due to negligence or disregard of rules and regulations, a penalty of 15 percent of the amount of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(e)
Penalties for fraud or intent to evade. If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is due to fraud or an intent to evade any section of this division or other authorized rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the deficiency shall be added thereto.
(f)
Notice of deficiency determination. The city and the city's designee shall give to the licensee written notice of the city's deficiency determination. The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, the service shall be addressed to the licensee at the licensee's address as it appears in the licensing records of the city. For service by mail or any notice required by this division, the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States Post Office.
(g)
Time limits. Except for a fraud, intent to evade this division or authorized rules or regulations or failure to make a return, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be mailed within three years after the tenth day of the calendar month following the monthly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within three years after the return is filed, whichever period shall last expire.
Sec. 4-346. - Determination if no return made.
(a)
Estimate of gross receipts. If any licensee fails to make a return for the tax levied under this division, the administrator shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the licensee or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales in this city which are subject to the tax. The estimate shall be made for the period in respect to which the licensee failed to make the return and shall be based upon any information that is or may come into the possession of the administrator. Upon the basis of this estimate, the administrator shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid by the city, adding to the sum thus determined a penalty equal to 15 percent thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or for more than one period.
(b)
Offsets; interest. In making a determination, the mayor or the mayor's designee may offset overpayments for a period against penalties and interest on underpayments for the same or other periods. The interest on underpayments shall be computed in the manner set forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(c)
Interest on amount due. The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest, until the date of payment at the rate of one percent per month or any fraction of a month from the tenth day after the close of the monthly period for which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned.
(d)
Penalty for fraud or intent to evade. If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or an intent to evade this division or rules and regulations, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount required to be paid by the person, exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the 15-percent penalty provided herein.
(e)
Notice. Promptly after making a determination, the administrator shall give to the person written notice to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
Sec. 4-347. - Penalties and interest for failure to pay.
Any licensee who fails to pay the tax imposed under this division to the city or who fails to pay any amount of the tax required to be collected and paid to the city within the time required shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of the tax, plus interest on the unpaid tax or any portion thereof.
Sec. 4-348. - Collection of unpaid tax.
(a)
Action for collection. At any time within three years after any tax levied under this division or any amount of tax required to be collected under this division becomes due and payable and at any time within three years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, the administrator may bring an action in the courts of this state or any other state of the United States in the name of the city to collect the amount delinquent together with penalties and interest, court fees, filing fees, attorney's fees and other legal fees incident thereto.
(b)
Duties of successors or assigns. If any licensee liable for any amount under this division sells or terminates the business, the licensee's successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover the amount until the former owner produces a receipt from the license division, department of finance, showing that the amount has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
(c)
Liability for failure to withhold. If the purchaser of a business fails to withhold purchase price as required, the purchaser becomes personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by the purchaser to the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Within 30 days after receiving a written request from the purchaser for a certificate, the license division, department of finance, shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the purchase at the purchaser's address as it appears on the records of the license division, department of finance, of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells the business or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final, whichever event shall last occur.
Sec. 4-349. - Overpayments.
If the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously collected or received by the city under this division, it may be offset as provided in this article. If the operator or person determines that the person has overpaid or paid more than once, which fact has not been determined by the administrator, the person will have three years from the date of payment to file claim in writing stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded. The claim shall be audited. If the claim is approved, the excess amount paid the city may be credited on any amounts due and payable from the person by whom it was paid or the person's successors.
