Chapter 30 - MANUFACTURED HOUSING[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; land development ordinance and subdivision regulations, ch. 26; roads and bridges, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 46.
State Law reference— Registration and licensing of dealers, manufacturers and persons transporting mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 40-2-38; removal of transportable housing from lands subject to writ of possession, O.C.G.A. § 44-7-59; ad valorem taxation of mobile homes, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-440 et seq.; issuance of mobile home location permits, display of decals, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492; the Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes Act, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-130 et seq.; authority of General Assembly to classify mobile homes as a separate class of property for ad valorem property tax purposes, Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ III(b)(2)(B).

Sec. 30-1. - Decal required.
(a)
Decal requirement. All persons owning mobile home/manufactured housing units located in the county on January 1 of each year shall obtain from the tax commissioner a decal before May 1, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-5-492. This requirement pertains to all mobile home/manufactured housing units, including those exempt from taxation by homestead exemption or other provision of state law.
(b)
Affixing decal to mobile home/manufactured housing unit. Such decals shall be affixed to the mobile home/manufactured housing unit in such a manner as to cause them to be easily visible for inspection.
(c)
Report of relocated mobile home/manufactured housing unit. Owners of mobile homes/manufactured housing units located in the county after January 1 of any year shall, within ten working days of such relocation, report their mobile home/manufactured housing unit to the office of the tax commissioner.
(Ord. of 3-6-2001, § 1)
Sec. 30-2. - Reports by mobile home/manufactured housing park operators.
(a)
Inventory of units. Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home/manufactured housing park is required to give the tax commissioner an inventory of all mobile home/manufactured housing units located in the park as of October 1 of each year, which shall delivered to the tax commissioner on or before October 15 of each year.
(b)
Report of removal of mobile home/manufactured housing unit. Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home/manufactured housing park shall report to the tax commissioner the removal of any mobile home/manufactured housing unit from the park prior to such home unit being removed, if known by the park owner, manager or operator. If such removal shall occur without the prior knowledge of the park owner, manager or operator, the park owner, manager or operator shall, within ten working days of having knowledge of the removal, make a report to the tax commissioner thereof.
(c)
Lot map. Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home/manufactured housing park shall furnish to the tax commissioner an updated lot map of each park, and any changes shall be reported by January 1 of each year.
(d)
Change in ownership. Every owner, manager and operator of a mobile home/manufactured housing park is required to notify the tax commissioner of any change in ownership or of name of any mobile home/manufactured housing park within 30 days of such change.
(Ord. of 3-6-2001, § 2)
Sec. 30-3. - Penalty.
(a)
Prosecution in magistrate court. Any violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the magistrate court of the county.
(b)
Punishment upon conviction. A conviction for the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section 1-12.
(Ord. of 3-6-2001, § 3)
