Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et. seq.; Authority of municipality to adopt ordinances, resolutions or regulations, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-30.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "the Code of the City of Perry, Georgia" and may be so cited.
(Code 1966, § 1-1)
Charter reference—Codification of ordinances, § 2.26.
State Law reference— Codification requirements, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of the city, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless they are inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires otherwise.
Generally. In the interpretation and application of any provision, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provisions imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be controlling.
Acts by agents. When any provision of this Code requires an act to be done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal such requisition shall be construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "of Perry" followed. The word "city" shall extend to and include its several officers, agents and employees.
City council. The words "city council" shall be construed to mean the city council of the City of Perry.
Code. The word "Code" means "The Code of the City of Perry, Georgia," as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. The time within which any act is to be done, as provided in any provision of this Code or in any order issued pursuant to any provision of this Code, when expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, except that if the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded; and when any such time is expressed in hours the whole of Sunday, from midnight to midnight shall be excluded.
County. The words "county," "the county" or "this county" shall mean Houston County, Georgia.
Gender. Any word importing the masculine gender shall extend to and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Joint authority. All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or more city officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it shall be otherwise expressly declared in the provisions giving the authority.
May. The word "may" shall be construed as being directory and not mandatory.
Must. The word "must" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Number. Every word importing the singular number only shall extend and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one (1) person or thing, and every word importing the plural number only shall extend and be applied to one (1) person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
Oath. The word "oath" shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Other city officials or officers. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of this city.
Owner. The word "owner" applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of part of such building or land.
Person. Unless otherwise provided, "person" means individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall extend to every species of property except real property.
Reasonable time. In all cases where any provisions shall require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or compliance with such notice.
Shall. The word "shall" shall be construed as being mandatory.
Shall have been. The words "shall have been" include past and future cases.
State. The words "state," "the state" or "this state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Technical and nontechnical words. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Tense. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present and past.
Week. The word "week" shall be construed to mean seven (7) days; but publication in a newspaper or any notice or other matter indicated to be for a stated number of weeks shall be construed to mean one (1) insertion in each week, unless specifically stated to be for each day of the week or for more than one (1) day in each week.
(Code 1966, §§ 1-2, 1-3)
State Law reference— Similar provisions, O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1—1-3-3.
Sec. 1-3. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any ordinance:
(1)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money.
(2)
Authorizing the issuance of bonds or any evidence of indebtedness.
(3)
Authorizing or approving a contract.
(4)
Granting a franchise.
(5)
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving or widening any street or public way.
(6)
Establishing or altering the grades of any street.
(7)
Approving a budget.
(8)
Levying or imposing taxes that are not codified in this Code.
(9)
Establishing salaries or other benefits for officers or employees of the city.
(10)
Dealing with special assessments.
(11)
Annexing property into the city.
(12)
Dealing with subdivisions, zoning and/or development.
(13)
Whose purpose has been accomplished.
(14)
Which is special although permanent in effect.
(15)
Which is temporary although general in effect.
Sec. 1-4. - Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
(a)
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(b)
The adoption of this Code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this Code.
Sec. 1-5. - Provisions as continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as ordinance provisions previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-6. - Catchlines of sections; history notes, etc.; references to Code.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(c)
All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters, articles, and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1966, § 1-4)
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-7. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly provided. The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1966, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect any section or subsection of this Code, shall be numbered consecutively, but shall refer specifically to the section or subsection affected, and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portions shall be excluded from said Code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "Section _______ of the Code of the City of Perry, Georgia is amended to read as follows:…" The new provisions shall then be set out in full.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language shall be used: "The Code of the City of Perry, Georgia is amended by adding a new section to be numbered section _______, which section shall read as follows: …" The new section shall then be set out in full.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number in the following language: "Section (chapter or article) _______ of the Code of the City of Perry, Georgia is repealed."
(Code 1966, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-9. - Altering Code.
No person shall change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1966, § 1-8)
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-10. - General penalty; continuing violations.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding thirty (30) days, or both. In lieu of fine, imprisonment or fine and imprisonment a person convicted of violating this Code may be sentenced to labor for the city on the streets, sidewalks, squares or other public places for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days.
(b)
Each day a violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, and each act in violation of the provisions of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties herein provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as provided by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(Code 1966, § 1-9)
Charter reference—Penalties for ordinance violations, § 4.13.
State Law reference— Imposition of additional penalty for certain drug offenses, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-100; Imposition of additional penalty for offense of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-112; Additional penalty to be imposed in criminal and traffic cases to provide training to law enforcement officers, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; Punishment for misdemeanors generally, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3; Alternative punishments for violations involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e).
Sec. 1-11. - Severability.
If any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or subsection of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections or subsections of this Code.
(Code 1966, § 1-6)
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
