ARTICLE VIII. - OUTDOOR LANDSCAPE WATERING

Sec. 25-251. - Restriction on outdoor water of landscape.
Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining groundcover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. ยง 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or stormwater in compliance with applicable sections of the Perry Land Development Ordinance and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. ยง 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed wastewater by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of thirty (30) days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(Ord. No. 2010-25, 11-2-10)
Sec. 25-252. - Enforcement.
(a)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in this article.
(b)
The city code enforcement department shall be the enforcement authority for this article. The city manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(Ord. No. 2010-25, 11-2-10)
Sec. 25-253. - Penalties.
A violation of any section in this article shall subject the violator to the maximum punishment provided under the City Charter. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. No. 2010-25, 11-2-1-)
