ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the city manager or his designee.
Agent means an individual who does not have an ownership interest in the licensed premises, who meets the requirements of section 6-60 of this chapter, who is employed in a management and designated by the owner of the licensed premises to be licensee.
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Applicant means the person making application for a license under this chapter for the sale of alcoholic beverages and, if applicable, any individual designated by that person to be licensee.
Bottle club means any establishment or premises which is operated on a regular basis meeting any of the following conditions:
(1)
No alcoholic beverages sold on the premises;
(2)
All members, guests or members of the public must provide their own alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises;
(3)
Fees or other charges are imposed on all members, guests or members of the public for admission to the premises; or for setups, i.e., liquid mixers, cups, ice and other items associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages or for any other reason.
BYOB establishment means any business location, including but not limited to restaurant, cafe, salon, art gallery, museum, recreational facility, auditorium, funeral home, cigar shop, retail establishment, or office, which admits individuals with alcoholic beverages on their person for consumption on the premises.
Business area means any street length between intersections where 50 percent or more of such street length is in use for business purposes.
Church means a permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship and shall be publicly designated as a church, but shall not include a residence also used for religious purposes.
Closed function means an event sponsored by a nonprofit organization not open to the general public which must have a written, limited guest list prepared at least 48 hours in advance of the date on which the closed function is to occur, and which occurs at a city park or facility which is managed by the city. No pay-at-the-door guest[s] or drop-ins are to be permitted. Alcoholic beverages may be served without charge and consumed at closed functions, but the offer and sale of alcoholic beverages at such functions is prohibited; except that a general admission fee permitting attendance at the closed function may be collected in advance.
College means only such state, county, city, church or other colleges that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state, and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Convenience store means a retail establishment whose primary business is the sale of pre-packaged or unprepared food and grocery items, which may sell fuel products, household items, or tobacco products and other goods commonly associated with the same.
Conviction means adjudication of guilt, plea of guilty, plea of nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond charged with a crime, but shall not include a discharge under provisions of what is commonly called the State of Georgia First Offender Act, being O.C.G.A. 42-8-60, or as may be amended from time to time.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 24 percent alcohol by volume, including but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Distance means the measurement in lineal feet from the center of any door of customer entry of the proposed premises of a licensee in a direct line to the applicable property line or structure at issue under section 6-38 of this chapter. A radius shall be measured from the center of any door of customer entry of the proposed premises of any licensee. Should the proposed premises contain two or more customer entry doors, the distance shall be the shortest measurement in lineal feet from the center of any door of customer entry as determined by city officials to the property line or structure at issue.
Drink means any spirituous liquor not in its original package served for consumption on the premises, which may or may not be diluted by any other liquid.
Erotic entertainment/dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers or entertainers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. Specified sexual activities shall include any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct; anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerastia;
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast;
(5)
Masochism, erotic or sexually-oriented torture, beating or the infliction of pain;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
Family means any person related to the holder of an alcoholic beverage license within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity as determined according to civil law.
Farm winery means a domestic manufacture of wine in quantities of less than 100,000 gallons of wine per year, that is licensed by the state pursuant to O.C.G.A. 3-6-21.1, or as may be amended from time to time. Provided a license is issued as required by this chapter, a farm winery is authorized to sell wine by the package, by the drink and operate a wine tasting facility on the premises of the farm winery without additional license requirements, except as is required in the Holly Springs zoning ordinance.
Food caterer means any person whose primary business is the preparation of food for consumption off the premises.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 24 percent of alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Grocery store means a retail establishment whose primary function is the sale of packaged or unprepared food and grocery items for consumption off the premises and whose annual gross sales of alcoholic beverages do not exceed five percent of its total gross sales.
Growler means a professionally sanitized reusable container not exceeding 64 ounces in volume used to transport draft beer for off-premises consumption.
Hotel means a building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 50 or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more public dining rooms, with adequate and sanitary kitchen and a capacity of at least 40, where meals are regularly served to such guest, such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or in separate buildings or structures used in connection therewith that are on the same premises and are a part of the hotel operation. Motels meeting the qualifications set out in this definition for hotels shall be classified in the same category as hotels. Hotels shall have the privilege of granting franchises for the operation of a bar, lounge, restaurant or nightclub on their premises; and the holder of such franchise shall be included in the definition of hotel hereunder.
License means the authorization by the mayor and city council to engage in the sale of alcoholic beverages either by the package or consumption on the premises.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any retail dealer who has been licensed pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 4, Article 2 of Chapter 5, or Article 2 of Chapter 6 of Title 3 of the Official Code of Georgia.
Licensee means a person holding any class of license issued under the terms of this chapter.
Lounge means a separate room in which alcoholic beverages are sold, connected with a part of and adjacent to a restaurant or located in a hotel as defined in this section with all booths, stools and tables being unobstructed and open to view. All lounges shall be air-conditioned and have a seating capacity of at least 40. A lounge, as defined in this section, which is operated on a different floor in the premises, or in a separate building, or is not connected to or adjacent to a restaurant, shall be considered a separate establishment and shall pay an additional license fee therefore.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager, beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "beer" and "malt beverage" are interchangeable throughout this chapter. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Managing capacity means the president or chief executive officer of a corporation, or a person who has responsibility for management of the operations, including sale of alcoholic beverages, at the location to be licensed or supervision of management of the operation, including sale of alcoholic beverages, at the location to be licensed and who is a full-time employee of the licensee.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits; provided, however, that a vintner that blends wine with distilled spirits to produce a fortified wine shall not be considered a manufacturer of distilled spirits.
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Minor means a person less than 18 years of age.
Officer shall mean any officer, director, stockholder, owners, manager, or person who either has a financial interest of any nature in a bottle club or directs any policy of a bottle club.
Person shall mean any individual, person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or organization.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Package store means a business establishment whose primary business activity is the retail sale of alcoholic beverages by the package.
Permit holder means that person authorized with a work permit and designated by the licensee to sell alcoholic beverages at the licensed premises.
Person means any individual, sole proprietor, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, whether public, private or quasi-public. In the case of a partnership, it includes all partners. In the case of a corporation, it includes all principal shareholders.
Pouring license means a license that authorizes on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Premises means floor space within a building possessed, owned or controlled by the licensee or its agents of a business location to sell alcoholic beverages, but shall also include any patio areas outside of the building and any designated grocery pickup paved parking areas immediately adjacent to the place of business. This definition shall not be interpreted in a way that would preclude any sales that are permitted by the Georgia Department of Revenue.
Principal shareholder means a person who owns any shares of a corporation with less than 35 shareholders or more than five percent of the shares of a corporation which has more than 35 shareholders, except that a person who owns shares which are publicly traded shall not be deemed to be a principal shareholder or to have a beneficial interest in the corporation based solely on the fact of stock ownership.
Private club means a nonprofit association organized and existing under the laws of the state, actively in operation within the city, which has been in existence at least one year prior to the filing of its application for a license to be issued under this chapter, having at least 75 members regularly paying monthly, quarterly, or semiannual dues, organized and operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation and other non-profitable purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any shareholders or members, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space therein for the reasonable use to its members with suitable kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining and using a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving meals for its members and guests; provided, that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid, directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of spirituous liquors to the club or its members or guests beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed by its members at any annual meetings or by its governing board out of the general revenue of the club.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one or more than two families customarily reside and shall not include a mobile home, an apartment house having facilities for housing more than two families, a boardinghouse or rooming house where there are five or more boarders or roomers, any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of any application for license, or any residence that shall be a nonconforming use in a commercial zone.
Public park means any public lands owned or controlled and operated by this city, and county of this state, any municipality of the state, the state, the United States of America or any property owned or managed by a nonprofit organization, in and upon which facilities are provided for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
Purchase price means the consideration received for the sale of spirituous liquors by the drink valued in money, whether received in cash or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property, or services of any kind or nature, and also the amount for which credit is allowed by the licensee or his agent to the purchasers, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
Purchaser means any person who orders and gives present or future consideration for any spirituous liquor by the drink.
Restaurant means any space, kept, used, maintained, advertised, offered and held out to the public where food, meals and/or snacks are prepared, served, or provided to members of the public for compensation. The serving of such meals shall be the principal business conducted and food sales must be equal to or more than 50 percent of total sales.
Retail consumption dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits for consumption on the premises at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
Retail sale means selling or offering for sale alcoholic beverages to any member of the public. Such term shall also include, without limitation, the sale to any member of the public of any ticket or license, or the charging of any cover charge or fee, for admission to any event or premises where alcoholic beverages are available without further charge, as well as the sale of any ticket, stamp, token or similar item which may be redeemed or exchanged for alcoholic beverages.
Retailer or retail dealer means, except as to distilled spirits, any person who sells alcoholic beverages, either in unbroken packages or for consumption on the premises, at retail only to consumers and not for resale. With respect to distilled spirits, the term means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale.
School means only such state, county, city, church or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state and which are public schools or private as defined in subsection (b) of O.C.G.A. § 20-2-690, or as may be amended from time to time, including any public or private location that teaches the Georgia Prekindergarten Program and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught and shall not include residences where home study programs are located.
Specified anatomical areas means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttocks or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Spirituous or alcoholic liquors means all beverages containing alcohol, obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent of alcohol by volume, including fortified wines.
Underage person means any person below the age at which alcoholic beverages may be legally purchased in the state, as provided by O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, or as may be amended from time to time.
Wine means any alcoholic beverages containing not more than 21 percent of alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, fortified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Wholesaler means any person engaged in distribution or selling to retailers for the purpose of resale of any alcoholic beverages as defined in this section.
(Ord. of 1-20-03, § 1; Ord. of 1-19-12, § 1; Ord. No. 07-2016 , § 1, 5-16-16; Ord. No. 08-2017 , § 1, 4-24-17; Ord. No. 15-2019 , § 1, 11-18-19)
Sec. 6-2. - Purpose of chapter.
This chapter has been enacted in accordance with a plan for the purpose, among others, of promoting the health and general welfare of the community, to establish reasonable and ascertainable standards for the regulation and control of the licensing and sale of alcoholic beverages, to protect and preserve schools and churches, to give effect to existing land use and to preserve certain residential areas, with reasonable considerations, among others, to the character of the area and their peculiar suitability for particular uses, the congestion in the roads and streets, and with a general view of promoting desirable living conditions and sustaining stability of neighborhoods and property values, and to protect against the evils of concentration of the retail outlets for alcoholic beverages in one family or to prevent undesirable persons from engaging in or having any interest in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. of 1-20-03, § 1)
Sec. 6-3. - Compliance required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, wholesale or retail any alcoholic beverages without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or business to offer any alcoholic beverage for consumption on the premise to any customer or employee without having first complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. of 1-20-03, § 1; Ord. of 3-20-06)
Sec. 6-4. - Territorial application of chapter.
The terms and provisions of this chapter shall apply only within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. of 1-20-03, § 1)
Sec. 6-5. - Sale, possession, or consumption.
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, possessed or consumed by any person on any public park except as otherwise set forth herein.
(Ord. of 1-20-03, § 1)
Secs. 6-6—6-25. - Reserved.
