ARTICLE VI. - CODE OF ETHICS

Sec. 2-150. - Purpose.
(a)
Declaration of policy. It is the policy of the county that the proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics for all county officials is adopted by ordinance.
(b)
Purposes. This code has the following purposes:
(1)
To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by county officials;
(2)
To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best interest of the county;
(3)
To require disclosure by such officials of private financial or other interest in matters which may affect the county; and
(4)
To serve as a basis for disciplining those who refuse to abide by its terms. The provisions of this article shall not apply to political contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. I)
Sec. 2-151. - Scope of persons covered.
The provisions of this code of ethics shall be applicable to all members of the board of commissioners, the planning commission, all appointees of the board of commissioners, and all county department heads.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. II)
Sec. 2-152. - Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
County official or officials, unless otherwise expressly defined, means members of the board of commissioners, all direct appointees of the board of commissioners, all department heads reporting to the county administrator, members of the planning commission, appeals board and authorities, whether such persons are salaried, hired or elected, and any other person holding positions designated by the county, as may be amended from time to time. County official, unless otherwise expressly defined, includes individuals appointed by the board of commissioners to all county authorities, commissions, committees, boards, task forces or other county bodies, unless specifically exempted from this ordinance by the board of commissioners.
Decision means any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or other matter voted on by the board of commissioners or other appointed bodies, as well as the discussions or deliberations of the board or other appointed bodies, which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body.
Discretionary authority means the power to exercise any judgment in a decision or action.
Entity means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm, corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which business may be conducted.
Immediate family means spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son or daughter of any county official.
Incidental interest means an interest in a person, entity or property which is not a substantial interest and which has insignificant value.
Remote interest means an interest of a person or entity, including a county official, who would be affected in the same way as the general public.
Substantial interest means an interest in another person or an entity if:
(1)
The interest is ownership of ten (10) percent or more of the voting stock, shares or equity of the entity; or
(2)
Funds received by the person from the other person or entity either during the previous twelve (12) months or the previous calendar year, equaled or exceeded five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in payment for goods, products or nonprofessional services, or twenty-five (25) percent of the recipient's gross income during that period, whichever is less; [or]
(3)
The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity, other than a corporate entity owned or created by the board of commissioners; or
(4)
The person is a creditor, debtor, or guarantor of the other person or entity in an amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more, provided, however, a commercially reasonable loan made to a county official in a lender's ordinary course of business at prevailing rates and terms, and which does not discriminate against or in favor of a county official (because of that official's status as a public servant) shall not be included as a part of this definition.
(5)
Substantial interest in real property means an interest in real property which is an equitable or legal ownership with a market value of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. III)
Sec. 2-153. - Standards of conduct.
(a)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall use such position to secure special privileges or exemptions for such person or other, or to secure confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
(b)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority, in any matter before the board of commissioners, board or commission in which he has a substantial interest, shall fail to disclose for the common good for the record such interest prior to any discussion or vote.
(c)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall act as an agent or attorney for another in any matter before the board of commissioners or any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall directly or indirectly receive, or agree to receive, any compensation, gift, reward, or gratuity in any matter or proceeding connected with, or related to, the duties of his office, which has a value of over one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(e)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall enter into any contract with the county, except as specifically authorized by state statutes. Any member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority who has a proprietary interest in an agency doing business with the county shall make known that interest in writing to the board of commissioners and the county clerk.
(f)
All public funds shall be used for the general welfare of the people and not for personal economic gain.
(g)
Public property shall be disposed of in accordance with Georgia law.
(h)
No county official shall solicit or accept other employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a county official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to impair judgment or performance of county duties.
(i)
If a county official accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official shall disclose the fact to the body on which he serves or to his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential future employer.
(j)
No county official shall use county facilities, personnel, equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are lawfully available to the public.
(k)
No county official or employee shall grant or make available to any person any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which it is the general practice to grant or make available to the public at large.
(l)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall use such position to coerce, intimidate, threaten, harass, or make promises of promotion or pay to any county employee beyond that which is permissible under the county personnel ordinance.
(m)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall use such position for any personnel purpose beyond that which the board of commissioners specifically sanctions.
(n)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall intentionally make false statements concerning other members of the board of commissioners; any members of any board, commission, or authority; any other appointees of the board of commissioners; and/or any employee(s) of Gordon County, Georgia. This prohibition shall include the repetition of statements and allegations which the speaker knowingly and intentionally makes for the purpose of maligning the reputation and character of others without having a factual basis for the statement and without being able to produce a factual basis for said statement.
(o)
No member of the board of commissioners or a member of any board, commission, or authority shall disclose the proceedings, content, or discussions of an executive session or closed meeting of said body when such meeting is held in accordance with O.C.G.A. 50-14-1, et seq.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. IV; Ord. of 11-6-01, § 1; Ord. of 11-20-01, § 1)
Sec. 2-154. - Conflict of interest prohibited.
A county official may not participate in a vote or decision on a matter affecting a person, entity or property in which the official or employee has a substantial interest; in addition, a county official or employee who serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of directors of a non-profit entity may not participate in a vote or decision regarding funding by or through the county of the entity. Where the interest of a county official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental, the county official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need not disclose the interest.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. V)
Sec. 2-155. - Exemptions.
This code shall not be construed to require the filing of any information relating to any person's connection with, or interest in, any professional society or any charitable, religious, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service, civil or political organization, or any similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise or governmental agency, and which is not engaged in the ownership or conduct of a business enterprise or governmental agency.
(Ord. of 1-16-01, Art. VI)
Sec. 2-156. - Severability.
The provisions of this article are severable. If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this article that can be given effect without the invalid provisions or application.
(Ord. of 1-16-2001, Art. VII)
Sec. 2-157. - Penalty.
Any persons violating any provisions of this policy are subject to:
(1)
Written and oral reprimand by the board of commissioners, board, commission or committee of which said violator is a member.
(2)
A fine greater than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) to be imposed by the board of commissioners, board, commission or committee of which the violator is a member.
(3)
Request for resignation by the board of commissioners, board, committee or commission of which the violator is a member.
Each board, commission, or authority shall have authority to establish rules and regulations to impose said penalties.
(Ord. of 1-16-00, Art. VIII)
Secs. 2-158—2-179. - Reserved.
