ARTICLE III. - AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT[4]

Sec. 98-106. - Created; composition.
An auxiliary police unit is created and established as an organization which shall be composed of persons who shall be appointed and sworn in as members thereof. Members shall be volunteer workers only and shall not be deemed to be employees of the city or of the department of police for any purpose and shall serve gratuitously as such for no compensation and without any other benefits of employment as are afforded other city employees, except as specifically set forth in this article.
Sec. 98-107. - Qualifications of members.
(a)
The police chief shall establish the requirements to be met by persons to qualify to become members of the auxiliary police unit. Such requirements shall include but need not be limited to physical, mental, aptitude, personality inventory and character standards and the mandatory training of such persons, for a minimum of 80 hours, in the field of police work. It shall be the duty of the police chief to provide such training for such persons and also any further training for members which the police chief may deem to be necessary or desirable.
(b)
Whenever all of the requirements to qualify to become a member shall have been met by any person, the person may be appointed and sworn in as a member by the police chief or by a person designated by the police chief for such purpose. However, the police chief or any such designated person, with or without cause therefor, need not appoint and swear in any particular person as a member.
(c)
The police chief, with or without cause, may terminate any member at any time without a hearing, and any member may resign as such at any time by written notification thereof to the police chief. Any member who shall cease to be such shall immediately surrender all property of the city issued to the member pursuant to this article or otherwise.
(Code 1977, § 11-2086)
Sec. 98-108. - Training.
In order to provide special training, including but not limited to professional, technical, physical and academic training, for members of the auxiliary police unit and for the development of morale and esprit de corps, the police chief is authorized and directed to inaugurate and conduct such training and other activities within the department of police to the end that the members of the auxiliary police unit may most efficiently perform their duties as members of the auxiliary police unit.
Sec. 98-109. - Equipment.
(a)
Each member of the auxiliary police unit shall be issued, at city expense and at no expense to the member, items as follows:
(1)
A uniform, which shall not be identical to that issued to a regular police officer;
(2)
Equipment, which shall include but need not be limited to handcuffs, and a badge, except the badge shall not be identical to those issued to a regular police officer; and
(3)
An identification card, which shall show the person as being a member.
(b)
A member shall not be issued a police baton, a firearm or other instrument capable of inflicting deadly force. Further, such members shall not carry any firearm or instrument capable of inflicting deadly force.
(c)
Each member, while serving as such, shall wear, display or carry, as the case may be, every item, except as provided in this section, which shall have been issued to the person as a member, whether or not mentioned in this section. No member while off duty shall wear, display or carry, as the case may be, any such item of the uniform or equipment, except going to and from duty. No member shall be authorized to wear or display any item of the uniform or equipment for any off-duty function, whether paid or unpaid.
(d)
Each item which shall be issued to a member, whether or not mentioned in this section, shall remain and be the property of the city.
Sec. 98-110. - False impersonation.
It shall be unlawful, punishable as provided in section 1-8, for any person, not a member of the auxiliary police unit to:
(1)
Wear, display or carry, as the case may be, any item which shall have been issued to any member of the unit.
(2)
Represent, identify or hold such person out, in any manner whatsoever, to be a member of the unit or to have any connection with the unit.
Sec. 98-111. - Workers' compensation.
(a)
For the purpose of this section only, each member of the auxiliary police unit shall be an employee of the city only while serving any assigned shift as a member of the auxiliary police unit or while receiving training as such.
(b)
If any such member or any such person were to suffer or sustain any illness or injury approximately caused by arising out of and in the course of such member's service or training while an employee of the city, as limited in this section, the member shall be entitled to all of those workers' compensation benefits, no more or no less, as those provided to volunteer firefighters in the state.
(c)
If any such member or any such person were to die as a result of any illness or injury approximately caused by, arising out of and in the course of such person's service or training while an employee of the city, as limited in this section, such person shall be entitled to all of those workers' compensation benefits, no more or no less, as those workers' compensation benefits provided to volunteer firefighters in the state.
Sec. 98-112. - Arrests.
Members of the auxiliary police unit shall not have the general power of arrest accorded regular police officers. Members shall have the power to arrest accorded private persons generally in the state in that they may arrest an offender if the offense is committed in their presence or within their immediate knowledge, or if the offense is a felony and the offender is escaping or attempting to escape, members may arrest upon reasonable and probable grounds of suspicion.
Sec. 98-113. - Powers to direct traffic.
Members of the auxiliary police unit shall have the authority to direct, control and regulate traffic as instructed by the police chief or the chief's designee.
Secs. 98-114—98-135. - Reserved.
