ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 150-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
All-terrain vehicle means any motorized vehicle designed for off-road use which is equipped with four low pressure tires, a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, and handlebars for steering.
Bus lane means the portion of a roadway designated for use by buses.
Central traffic district means all streets and portions of streets within the area described as follows: beginning at the intersection of North Avenue and Marietta Street; thence east on North Avenue to Piedmont Avenue; thence south on Piedmont Avenue to Capitol Avenue to Memorial Drive; thence west on Memorial Drive to Peachtree Street to Spring Street; thence north on Spring Street to Marietta Street; thence north on Marietta Street to North Avenue.
Curb loading zone means a space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
Freight curb loading zone means a space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
Lane-use control signals means special overhead signals having indications used to permit or prohibit the use of specific lanes of a street or highway or to indicate the impending prohibition of use.
Limited access highway means every highway, street or roadway to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from except at points and in the manner determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the highway, street or roadway.
Off road vehicle means any motorized vehicle designed for or capable of cross-country travel on or immediately over land, water snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain and not intended for use predominantly on public roads. The term includes, but is not limited to four-wheel drive vehicles, low pressure tire vehicles, and non-highway tire vehicles (See O.C.G.A. § 40-7-3).
Passenger curb loading zone means a place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
School crossing means a crossing commonly used by school children in going to and from school and so identified by appropriate signs.
Temporarily handicapped person means a handicapped person whose disability or incapacity can be expected to last for not more than 180 days.
(Code 1977, § 13-1001; Ord. No. 2013-53(13-O-1195), § 1, 10-30-13; Ord. No. 2014-29(14-O-1340), § 1, 7-16-14)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 150-2. - State law adopted by reference.
(a)
Pursuant to O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. tit. 40, ch. 6 (O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.), known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are adopted as and for the traffic regulations of this city with like effect as if recited in this chapter.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8.
Sec. 150-3. - Offenses by persons owning or controlling vehicles.
Except as otherwise provided by law, it is unlawful for the owner or any other person renting or leasing a vehicle to the driver, employing the driver or otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to require or permit the operation of the vehicle upon a street or highway in any manner contrary to this chapter. Fines for unlawful parking of rented or leased vehicles may be assessed against the company renting or leasing the vehicle to an individual or corporation.
(Code 1977, § 13-1003)
State Law reference— Liability of lessor of vehicles for traffic or parking violations, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-207.
Secs. 150-4—150-25. - Reserved.
