Chapter 58 - SOLID WASTE[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority of municipalities to provide for garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); litter control, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; Georgia Hazard Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60 et seq.

Sec. 58-1. - Violations.
(a)
Any person charged with a violation of any section or provision of this chapter shall be given a written notice and instructions from the office of the city as to the required remedy for such violation and shall be given 30 days to comply with the provisions of this chapter. Failure to comply with the requirements of such written notice and instructions of the city public works director or his designee shall result in the termination of services by the public works director or his designee and shall be an offense.
(b)
Reinstatement of city trash and garbage collection shall only be provided after the person has fully complied with all the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 58-2. - City responsible for sanitation services generally.
(a)
All garbage, trash, and refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the city, except as expressly provided in this chapter.
(b)
The city will collect refuse in accordance with a schedule as established from time to time by the city and kept on file in the office of the city clerk.
(c)
The following items, products, or materials will not be collected, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to place such items, products, or materials in any refuse can or container for collection: rubber tires, acid, explosive material, flammable liquids, dangerous or corrosive material of any kind, building materials, paint cans containing paint, whether bagged or not, and hazardous waste.
Sec. 58-3. - Collection days designated.
Garbage, trash, and refuse shall be collected from the various premises in the city by the city once each week.
Sec. 58-4. - Preparation and storage of garbage and refuse for collection.
(a)
Garbage and refuse shall be bagged in plastic bags and placed in garbage cans or containers approved by the public works director or his designee. Garbage cans or containers shall be placed adjacent to the sidewalk on the property owner's side of the sidewalk, or if no sidewalk exists, then adjacent to the curb or pavement on the main road or street fronting the property. Alleys shall not be considered main roads or streets. Garbage cans or containers shall not impede, obstruct, or divert either pedestrian or vehicular traffic or the flow of surface water and shall not block drains.
(b)
Grass trimmings, small shrubbery trimmings, pine needles, and similar vegetation shall not be bagged and shall be placed immediately adjacent to the sidewalk on the property owner's side of the sidewalk, or if no sidewalk exists, then adjacent to the curb or the pavement and shall not impede, obstruct, or divert either pedestrian or vehicular traffic or the flow of surface water or drains.
(Ord. of 12-6-2016, § 2)
Sec. 58-5. - Rates and charges.
The owners of all premises receiving garbage service shall pay to the city the service charge established by the mayor and council. Such charge shall be due on the date stated on the bill. Failure to pay the bill may result in discontinuance of service.
Sec. 58-6. - Depositing in street or public place.
It shall be unlawful for any person to litter, throw, deposit, scatter, or otherwise cause to be placed or left upon any vacant or unoccupied lot or lots, along any street or sidewalk or other public place or private property within the city without the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession, any paper, wastes, rubbish, trimmings, limbs or garbage of any kind.
