ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 30-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Access. The place, means, or way by which pedestrians or vehicles shall have safe, adequate, and usable ingress and egress to a property, use or parking space.
Accessory structure or accessory use. A structure or use incidental and subordinate to the main use of property and located on the same lot as the main use.
Administrative officer. The administrative officer shall be appointed by the city council and shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
Agriculture. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, dairying or animal husbandry.
Alley. A minor public right-of-way which is used primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
Alter. A change, addition, or modification in construction or occupancy of a building or structure.
Amendment. A change in the wording, context, or substance of this chapter, or a change in the district boundaries of district map.
Automobile service station. A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of motor fuels, but also supplying goods and services required in the operation and maintenance of automotive vehicles.
Basement. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is partly below and partly above grade but is so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is less than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
Buffer. A horizontal distance designed to provide attractive space or distance, obstruct undesirable views, serve as an acoustic barrier, or generally reduce the impact of adjacent development.
Building. A structure built and maintained for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, motor vehicles, animals, or personal or real property of any kind. The term "building" shall include the term "structure."
Building height. The vertical distance from the average grade to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the average point of a pitch or hip roof.
Building line. A line that coincides with the front side of the main building.
Cellar. That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly or partly below grade and so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is equal to or greater than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
Cluster development. A subdivision, planned development or grouping of lots or dwellings arranged in such a way that open space is maintained throughout the area, that sensitive lands such as wetlands and steep slopes remain undeveloped, and that lot layout requires a reduced amount of street and utility placement.
Common open space. Publicly or privately owned undeveloped open space intended for aesthetic, recreation, public safety or other conservation purposes, to be used by the owners or residents of a particular development or the public in general.
Conventional construction. A building constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site and from lumber cut on the job. A conventional building is subject to local codes and ordinances.
Court. An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building and bounded on two or more sides by such building.
Day care center. An institution, establishment, or place in which are commonly received at one time four or more children not of common parentage, for a period not to exceed 12 hours, for the purpose of being given board, care or training apart from their parents or guardians for compensation or reward.
Density net. The amount of dwellings per net acre, based on the total are of the parcel, including vacated rights-of-way, and excluding separate or noncontiguous lands, previously designated common open space, and excluding rights-of-way or easements.
Developer. Includes a firm, corporation, copartnership, association, institution, or person.
Dwelling, apartment or multiple-family. A building designed and used for occupancy by three or more families, all living independently of each other, and having separate full kitchen facilities for each family.
Dwelling, single-family. A detached building designed or used exclusively for the occupancy of one family and having housekeeping facilities for only one family.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex). A building designed or used exclusively for the occupancy of two families living independently of each other and having separate housekeeping facilities for each family.
Dwelling unit. One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one family and not having more than one cooking facility except facilities designed for camping purposes such as tents and recreation vehicles.
Factory-built housing. State law has now changed "factory-built housing" to "industrial building" (see definition below).
Family. One person or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption, or guardianship, or a group of no more than five persons (excluding servants) all or part of whom are not related by blood, marriage, legal adoption, or guardianship living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
Fence, sight obscuring. A fence consisting of wood, metal, masonry, or similar materials, or an evergreen hedge or other evergreen planting arranged in such a way as to obscure vision at least 80 percent.
Fill. The placement of sand, sediment, or other material, usually in submerged lands, or wetlands, to create new uplands or raise the elevation of land.
Floor area. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls, or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings, but not including:
(1)
Attic space providing headroom of less than seven feet;
(2)
Basement or cellar;
(3)
Uncovered steps or fire escapes;
(4)
Private garages, carports, or porches;
(5)
Accessory water towers or cooling towers; and
(6)
Accessory off-street parking or loading spaces.
Frontage. Property abutting on a street.
Goal. A general statement establishing a direction for city policies, ordinances or actions.
Grade, ground level. The average of the finished ground level at the center of all walls of a building. Where the walls are parallel to and within five feet of a public sidewalk, alley, or public way, the ground level shall be measured at the average elevation of the sidewalk, alley, or public way.
Hazards. Threats of life, property or the environment such as landsliding, flooding, subsidence, erosion or fire.
Home occupation. A lawful occupation or profession carried on by a resident of a dwelling as an accessory use within the same dwelling, and no more than one employee excluding members of his family.
Horticulture. The cultivation of plants, garden crops, trees, or nursery stock.
Hospitals. Institutions devoted primarily to the rendering of healing, curing, and/or nursing care, which maintain and operate facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, and care of two or more nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, injury, or deformity or where obstetrical or other healing, curing, and/or nursing care is rendered over a period exceeding 24 hours.
Hotel (motel, motor hotel, tourist court). A building or group of buildings used for transient residential purposes containing guest rooms designed to be used or which are used, rented, or hired out for sleeping purposes.
Industrialized building. Any structure or component thereof which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
Institution, higher educational. A college or university accredited by the state.
Intensity. A measure of the magnitude and negative impact of a land use on the environment and neighboring land uses.
Junk or wrecking yard. Any property where a person is engaged in breaking up, dismantling, sorting, storing, distributing, buying, or selling any scrap or waste material.
Kennels. A lot or premises on which four or more adult dogs are kept, whether by owners of the dogs or by persons providing facilities and care for compensation. An adult dog is one that has reached the age of six months.
Land use. Any use of the land including, but not limited to, commercial, industrial, residential, agriculture, recreation, public utilities placement, forest management, or natural uses.
Loading space. An off-street space or berth on the same lot, or parcel, with a building or use, or contiguous to a group of buildings or uses, for the temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading persons, merchandise, or materials, and which space or berth abuts upon a street, alley, or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.
Lot. A parcel of land, including a plot, of at least sufficient size to meet minimum district requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an approved private street, and may consist of:
(1)
A single lot of record;
(2)
A portion of a lot of record;
(3)
A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record;
(4)
A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirement of this chapter.
Lot area. The total area of a lot measured in a horizontal plane within the lot boundary lines exclusive of public streets.
Lot coverage. The portion of a lot or parcel of land covered with buildings, parking and maneuvering area, patios, decks, covered or paved storage area or other impervious surface.
Lot, depth. The greatest horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
Lot, flag. See the county subdivision regulations and soil erosion sediment control ordinance for an example of a flag lot.
Lot line, front. For an interior lot, a line separating the lot from the street; and for a corner lot, a line separating either (but not both) frontage of the lot from the street.
Lot line, rear. For an interior lot, a line separating one lot from another on the opposite side of the lot from the front lot line; for corner lots with either (but not both) interior lot line separating one lot from another; and for an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a straight line ten feet in length that is parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
Lot line, side. For an interior lot, a line separating one lot from the abutting lot or lots fronting on the same street; for corner lots, a line other than the front lot line separating the lot from the street or a line separating the lot from the abutting lot along the same frontage.
Lot panhandle. See the county subdivision regulations and soil erosion sediment control ordinance for an example of a panhandle lot.
Lot width. The greatest horizontal distance between side lot lines.
Manufactured home. A structure transportable in one or more sections and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein, and is constructed in accordance with national codes.
(1)
Multisection manufactured home (MSMH). A manufactured home (a.k.a. a double-wide mobile home) that is factory-finished in two or more sections and is towed to a building site where the sections are joined together.
(2)
Single-section manufactured home (SSMH). A manufactured home (a.k.a. a mobile home) in one section with dimensions limited to highway clearance (14 feet wide) and providing between 600 and 1,000 square feet of living space.
Manufactured home lot. A parcel of land for the placement of a single manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
Manufactured home park. A privately owned place where two or more manufactured homes used for human occupancy are parked on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same ownership. A manufactured home park may contain either or both single-section and multisection manufactured homes.
Manufactured home site. See "manufactured home lot."
Manufactured home stand. That part of a individual lot which has been reserved for the placement of the manufactured home, appurtenant structures, or addition.
Mobile home. See the definition of "manufactured home." The 1980 Housing and Community Development Act, effective October 1980, changed the term "mobile home" to "manufactured home."
Nonconforming structure or use. A lawful existing structure or use, at the time this chapter or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does conform to the requirements of this chapter.
Open area. The area devoted to lawns, setbacks, buffers, landscaped areas, natural areas, outdoor recreation areas, and similar types of uncovered open area and maintained in plant cover, and excluding storage areas for materials, boats or vehicles.
Owner. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land, including the attorney or agent thereof.
Parcel. A unit of land created by a partitioning of land.
Parking area, private. Privately or publicly owned property, other than streets and alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or otherwise identified for use by the tenants, employees, or owners of the property for which the parking area is required by this chapter and not open for use by the general public.
Parking area, public. Privately or publicly owned property, other than streets or alleys, on which parking spaces are defined, designated, or otherwise identified for use by the general public, either free or for remuneration. Public parking areas may include parking lots that may be required by this chapter for retail customers, patrons, and clients.
Parking space. An area permanently available for the parking of a full size automobile having dimensions of not less than nine feet by 18 feet.
Performance district. Performance districts are areas of land within the city that have different performance standards and criteria. These differences are intended to promote the separation of incompatible uses and to retain the character of the community.
Performance standard. A specific requirement of this chapter regulating land use, generally quantitative in nature.
Person. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, social or fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, branch of government, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
Planning commission or commission. The planning commission of the City of Demorest, Georgia.
Plat. Includes a final map, diagram, drawing, replat or other writing containing all the descriptions, locations, specifications, dedications, provisions and information concerning a subdivision.
Policy. A definitive statement of requirement of the comprehensive plan or development ordinance, generally qualitative in nature.
Prefabricated building. A broad term applied to any building completed in a factory setting.
Public road. Roads in the state, county or city road system.
(1)
Arterial. Arterials are usually state and federal highways such as U.S. 441 designed to move traffic over greater distances and provide access to counties and states.
(2)
Collector roads. The main function of collector roads is to provide access to arterials.
(3)
Local road and street. Local roads or streets are designed to provide access to abutting property such as a local street in a municipal area. Local roads and streets are not intended for through traffic.
School, commercial. A place where instruction is given to pupils in arts, crafts, trades, or other occupational skills and operated as a commercial enterprise as distinguished from schools endowed or supported by taxation.
School, primary, elementary, junior high, or high. Includes public, private, or parochial, but not nursery school, kindergarten, or day nursery except when operated in conjunction with a school.
Screen. A fence, wall berm, hedge, tree row, or other dense structure intended to perform a buffering effect in a limited space, and may be required in addition to a buffer.
Setback. The minimum allowable horizontal distance measured from the furthest projection of the structure to the adjacent property line.
Sign. An identification, description, illustration, or device which is affixed to or represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure, or land and which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution, or business. Each display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a sign.
Sign, advertising. A sign which directs attention to a business, product, activity, or service which is not necessarily conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
Story. That portion of a building included between a floor and the ceiling next above it which is six feet or more above the grade.
Street. An officially approved public thoroughfare or right-of-way dedicated, deeded or condemned, which has been officially approved by the commission and accepted by the council for use as such, other than an alley, which affords the principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road, and any other thoroughfare, except as excluded in this chapter. The term "street" shall include all arterial highways, freeways, traffic collector streets, local streets, and lanes.
Structure. Something constructed or built and having a fixed base on or fixed connection to the ground or another structure.
Subdivide land. To divide an area or tract of land into five or more lots within a calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under a single ownership at the beginning of such year.
Subdivider. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
Subdivision. Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into five or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, or building development. See also the county subdivision regulations and soil erosion sediment control ordinance.
Travel trailer. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes.
Use. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
Used or occupied. As applied to any land or building, includes the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
Vehicle. A device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Water-related. Uses which are not directly dependent upon access to a water body, but which provide goods or services that are directly associated with water-dependent land or waterway use, and which, if not located adjacent to water, would result in a public loss of the quality of goods or services offered. Except as necessary for water-dependent or water-related uses or facilities, residences, parking lots, spoil and dump sites, roads and highways, restaurants, businesses, factories, and trailer parks are not generally considered dependent on or related to water location needs.
Yard. A required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, however, that fences, walls, poles, posts, and other customary yard accessorized ornaments and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
Yard, front. A yard extending between lot lines that intersect a street line, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
(Land Use Ord. of 8-1984, § 2101)
Sec. 30-2. - Purpose.
(a)
The purpose of this chapter is to advance and encourage the development of sound land use patterns within the city intended to reduce or eliminate the occurrence of certain conditions which may threaten the safety, health, morals, or general welfare of the residents of the city. In order to insure this purpose is maintained, and prevent arbitrary or unreasonable land use and districting decisions, this chapter has been prepared and is administered with guidance from the following:
(1)
Comprehensive existing land use map (located in city hall).
(2)
Land use ordinance district map.
(3)
Future land use map.
(4)
Guidelines for granting amendments.
(5)
Community goals.
(b)
This chapter provides for:
(1)
The establishment of performance districts: low-intensity performance districts, moderate-intensity performance districts, high-intensity performance districts, and sensitive land performance districts;
(2)
Parking requirements;
(3)
Setback requirements;
(4)
Height requirements;
(5)
Sign requirements;
(6)
Conditional uses;
(7)
Buffers and screens;
(8)
Amendments;
(9)
Variances;
(10)
Nonconforming uses;
(11)
Land use ordinance district map;
(12)
Future land use map;
(13)
General provisions;
(14)
Powers of the various city officials concerning this chapter;
(15)
Administrative and enforcement procedures; and
(16)
Definitions of terms used.
(Land Use Ord. of 8-1984, § 101)
Sec. 30-3. - Jurisdiction.
This chapter applies to all land within the corporate limits of the city.
(Land Use Ord. of 8-1984, § 102)
Secs. 30-4—30-24. - Reserved.
