CODE OF ORDINANCES OF MACON-BIBB COUNTY, GEORGIA
____________
Published in 2015 by Order of the Board of Commission
____________
OFFICIALS of the COUNTY OF MACON-BIBB, GEORGIA AT THE TIME OF THIS CODIFICATION
____________
Robert Reichert
Mayor
____________
Gary Bechtel
Larry Schlesinger
Elaine Lucas
Mallory Jones, III
Bert Bivins, III
Mayor Pro-Tem
Ed Defore
Scotty Shepherd
Virgil Watkins, Jr.
Al Tillman
Commissioners
____________
Dale Walker
Chief Administrative Officer
____________
Judd Drake
County Attorney
____________
Sheila Thurmond
Clerk of Commission
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of this Code were provided by Macon-Bibb County, Georgia, as supplemented, and ordinances subsequently adopted by the Board of Commission. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 2015 Code, as supplemented, and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their corresponding prefixes:
EXPAND
CHARTER CHT:1
RELATED LAWS RL:1
SPECIAL ACTS SA:1
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE CHTCT:1
RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLE RLCT:1
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE SACT:1
CODE CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE SLT:1
CHARTER INDEX CHTi:1
CODE INDEX CDi:1
  (Index or Indexes)
The (index or indexes) (has or have) been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the (index itself or indexes themselves) which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of the editorial team of Municode, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Jean Howard for her cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the county readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the county's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municode and Macon-Bibb County, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municode and Macon-Bibb County, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municode and Macon-Bibb County, Georgia. 2015.
O-15-0033
SPONSOR: MAYOR ROBERT A.B. REICHERT
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MACON-BIBB COUNTY COMMISSION RE-ADOPTING THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR MACON-BIBB COUNTY, GEORGIA IN THE FORM REQUIRED FOR PUBLICATION BY THE MUNICIPAL CODE CORPORATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH GEORGIA LAW; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE; AND FOR OTHER LAWFUL PURPOSES.
WHEREAS, the governing authority of Macon-Bibb County has the legislative power to adopt clearly reasonable ordinances; and
WHEREAS, on December 30, 2013, the Macon-Bibb County Commission approved and adopted the inaugural Macon-Bibb County Code of Ordinances which became effective on January 1, 2014; and
WHEREAS, Macon-Bibb County Commission re-adopts the Macon-Bibb County Code of Ordinances in the form required for publication by the Municipal Code Corporation as required by O.C.G.A. § 36-80-19 (d)(1); and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Macon-Bibb County Commission, and it is hereby so ordained by authority of the same:
Section 1
The document entitled "Code of Ordinances, Macon-Bibb County, Georgia," published by Municipal Code Corporation consisting of Chapters 1 through 29, each inclusive, is hereby adopted.
Section 2
It is the intention of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that the delegations of authority previously granted by the City of Macon and Bibb County to the Macon-Bibb County Planning & Zoning Commission in sections 2-656 through 2-666 of the City of Macon Code of Ordinances and sections 2-291 through 2-301 of the Bibb County Code of Ordinances shall not be repealed and that nothing in the Code of Ordinances or herein be construed to affect in any way the legal validity of "The Comprehensive Land Development Resolution for the City of Macon and Bibb County, Georgia" enacted by the Macon-Bibb County Planning & Zoning Commission or the continued existence of the Macon-Bibb County Planning & Zoning Commission itself.
Section 3
It is the intention of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that nothing in the Code of Ordinances be construed as a zoning decision for purposes of Georgia Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. Section 36-36-1 et. seq.
Section 4
All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before January 1, 2014, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 5
The repeal provided for in section 4 hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 6
Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to indicate the intention of Macon-Bibb County to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that references to the Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 7
Ordinances adopted after January 1, 2014 that amend or refer to ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 8
a.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that all sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances are or were, upon their adoption, believed by the Macon-Bibb County Commission to be fully valid, enforceable and constitutional.
b.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, each and every section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances is severable from every other section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances. It is hereby further declared to be the intention of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, no section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances is mutually dependent upon any other section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances.
c.
In the event that any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this ordinance or the Code of Ordinances shall, for any reason whatsoever, be declared invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, it is the express intent of the Macon-Bibb County Commission that such invalidity, unconstitutionality, or unenforceability shall, to the greatest extent allowed by law, not render invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unenforceable any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, or sections of this ordinance or the Code of Ordinances and that, to the greatest extent allowed by law, all remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this ordinance and the Code of Ordinances shall remain valid, constitutional, enforceable, and of full force and effect.
Section 9
This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its approval by the Mayor or upon its adoption into law without such approval.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this  21 st   day of  July  , 2015.
By: ___________
ROBERT A.B. REICHERT, Mayor
Attest: ___________
JEAN S. HOWARD, Clerk of Commission
(SEAL)
