SECTION 40.
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of Bibb County shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of Bibb County for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the general primary in 2012 and shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Bibb County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"( ) YES
( ) NO
Shall the Act restructuring the governments of the City of Macon, the City of Payne City, and Bibb County and creating a single county-wide government to supersede and replace these governments and providing for the termination of the terms of office of members of the governing authorities of Bibb County, the City of Macon, and the City of Payne City and which cuts short the terms of sitting commission members and county commissioners to be approved?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes in the county as a whole cast on such question are for approval of the Act and if more than one-half of the votes cast in the City of Macon on such question are for approval of the Act, this charter shall become of full force and effect on January 1, 2013. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, the remaining sections of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date. The expense of such election shall be borne by Bibb County. It shall be the election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
