ARTICLE VI. - RETAIL SALES OF DISTILLED SPIRITS FOR CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES

Sec. 4-141. - Zoning district.
No license for retail sales of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises shall be issued unless the applicant's place of business is within the district in which, under the rules and regulations of the Macon-Bibb County Planning and Zoning Commission, the sale of distilled spirits would otherwise be allowed either as a permitted or as a conditional use.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-142. - Distances from certain uses; when distances not applicable.
Subject to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21, as amended:
No license for the retail sales of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises shall be issued where the location of the business is [within] 100 yards of a state- or county-owned and operated alcohol treatment center or a housing authority property as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-3-21.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-143. - When sales permitted.
(a)
Hours; holidays. No person shall engage in the sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. on Sunday and 6:00 a.m. the following Monday and between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on other days of the week, or when sales are prohibited by state law. Sales outside the designated hours are prohibited.
(b)
Election days. Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-20, and subject to the provisions of subsection (a) above, the sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises shall be permitted on election days as the same are defined in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated; provided, however, that it shall nonetheless be unlawful for any person to sell distilled spirits for consumption on the premises within 250 feet of any polling place or of the outer edge of any building within which such polling place is established on primary or election days.
(c)
Sunday sales. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, any licensee authorized by this Article to sell distilled spirits for consumption on the premises which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals at the licensed premises, and any such licensee operating an establishment which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging may apply for a Sunday sales permit which, if granted, will authorize the licensee to sell and serve distilled spirits for consumption on the premises on Sundays from 11:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight, local time, under the following conditions:
(1)
No license will be granted to an establishment which has not been licensed to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises for six consecutive months immediately preceding the filing of the application. However, this requirement shall not apply to an applicant that has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the tax commission its ability to comply with the conditions of a Sunday sales permit by having a proven record of operating, in another location or locations, an establishment that has been operated in a manner substantially similar to the establishment for which the Sunday sales permit is sought.
(2)
No application will be approved for any applicant unless the applicant holds a currently valid certificate of zoning compliance issued by the Macon-Bibb County Planning and Zoning Commission.
(3)
Sales of distilled spirits for consumption off the premises or for consumption outside the hours of permitted operation shall constitute a violation of the conditions of the grant of the license.
(4)
Licenses will be granted only to those applicants who own or operate a bona fide full-service restaurant which is defined as one which is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages, distilled spirits, malt beverages or wines for consumption on the premises under this Code; where meals are served with substantial entrees selected by the patron from a full menu are served; which has adequate facilities and sufficient employees for cooking or preparing and serving such meals for consumption at tables and dining rooms on the premises; which derives at least 50 percent of its gross sales from the sale of such meals prepared, served and consumed on the premises or which otherwise qualifies by the rental of rooms; and where the kitchens, dining rooms and related service facilities have been approved by the Macon-Bibb County Health Department and that department has issued a permit.
(5)
At the time of the application, the applicant shall submit to the commission or its designee a certification by a certified public accountant that the applicant meets the requirements set out in this subsection. The certification shall be based upon an actual review of the applicant's total gross sales for the licensed location during the 12 months preceding which ends on the last day on the month immediately preceding the filing of the application for permit under this Section. If the applicant has been in business for more than 6 months, but less than 12 months, then such certification shall be for the time the applicant has been in business, annualized. If at the time of the application the applicant has not received the required certification due to time constraints or other circumstances, then pending receipt of such certification, the applicant may submit other documentation satisfactory to the commission or its designee that the applicant meets the requirements of this subsection.
(6)
The commission or its designee is authorized to conduct an inspection of the books of the applicant for the purpose of verifying the facts set forth in this certificate.
(7)
Upon determination by the commission or its designee that the applicant has met the requirements of this subsection, he or she shall forward the application to the tax commissioner who shall then issue the permit if the applicant is otherwise qualified, which shall be permanently and prominently displayed by the licensee in his place of business.
(8)
When the tax commissioner has issued the license under the provisions hereof, he shall cause appropriate notification to be made to the office of the sheriff of the issuance of the license.
(9)
Licenses issued under the provisions of this subsection shall be valid from the date of issue through December 31st, next ensuing unless sooner revoked.
(10)
No more than 60 days prior to the expiration of the license, the licensee desiring to renew the permit shall file a new application therefor and furnish current information in like fashion as a new application.
(11)
The commission or its designee may at any time cause an interim reverification of eligibility prior to the expiration of a Sunday sales permit and if the licensee is found, as a result of such inquiry, to be no longer qualified under the provisions of this Section to hold a Sunday sales permit, the permit shall be revoked.
(12)
If the basic license of the licensee to sell distilled spirits for consumption on the premises is revoked, the permit for Sunday sales shall automatically be revoked as well.
(13)
If any licensee shall be determined to have furnished materially false information in the application for a Sunday sales permit or in the application for a license to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises, such actions shall be grounds for revocation of the licensee's Sunday sales permit or of any or all other licenses issued under this Chapter, pursuant to the procedures set out in Article XI of this Chapter.
(14)
Reserved.
(15)
Licensees shall be held accountable for compliance with the conditions, terms and restrictions of this section and shall likewise be responsible for the maintenance of order in and about the license premises. Licensees shall, in addition, ensure that customers do not engage in loud, boisterous, and noisome conduct amounting to a nuisance outside the building located on the licensed premises. Licensee shall likewise maintain adequate accounting records kept, if possible, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but in any event, sufficient to enable the commission, or its designee, to determine with accuracy the relative percentage of sales of food and rooms.
(16)
The provisions of Sections 4-121 through 4-126, and Sections 4-141 and 4-142 are incorporated herein.
(17)
The provisions of Section 4-56 relating to the time which must elapse from the date of revocation of a license until a new one can be issued are incorporated herein by reference.
(18)
No permit for Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages will be issued hereunder or remain in effect unless the licensee also holds a currently valid license for retail sales of wine and beer consumed on the premises or a currently valid license for the retail sale of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises, either or both, and the revocation of any such license shall automatically result in a revocation of any permit for Sunday sales.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-144. - Times and hours for sale, purchase, drinking, etc., exceptions in years when January 1st falls on Monday.
(a)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or provision to the contrary, whenever January 1st of any year falls on a Monday, it shall not be unlawful for the licensee or his employee, authorized to sell beer, malt beverages, wine, and distilled spirits by the drink, to sell and transfer same between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on such Monday morning, nor shall it be unlawful for any adult person to purchase and receive from such a licensee, or person employed by such a licensee, such alcoholic beverages between such hours.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or provision to the contrary, whenever January 1st of any year falls on a Monday, it shall not be unlawful for any person licensed for retail sale of beer, wine, or distilled spirits by the drink, to permit opened containers or bottles containing beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages, on the licensed premises at any time between 7:00 p.m. on the previous Sunday evening and 2:00 a.m. on such Monday morning, nor shall it be unlawful for any adult person to have such an opened container containing such substances in such place of business during such hours.
(c)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or provision to the contrary, whenever January 1st in any year falls on a Monday, it shall not be unlawful for any owner of a place of business licensed for the retail sale of beer, wine and distilled spirits by the drink to permit any adult person to drink any whiskey, wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages upon the business premises between the hours of 7:00 p.m. on the previous Sunday and 2:00 a.m. on such Monday morning, nor shall it be unlawful for any adult person to drink any whiskey, wine, beer or other alcoholic beverages in such business establishments between such hours.
(d)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or provision to the contrary, whenever January 1st of any year falls on a Monday, the practice commonly known as "brown bagging," that is, the bringing of liquor by patrons to business establishments licensed for the retail sale of beer, wine and distilled spirits by the drink for the purpose of drinking such liquor at any such establishments, shall not be unlawful between the hours of 7:00 p.m. on the previous Sunday evening and 12:01 a.m. on such Monday morning.
(e)
Notwithstanding any other ordinance or provisions to the contrary, whenever January 1st of any year falls on a Monday, the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages at the coliseum and auditorium is hereby authorized between the hours of 12:30 p.m. on New Year's Eve and 2:00 a.m. on January 1st.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-145. - Hours of operation of licensed premises.
(a)
No person or entity licensed under this Chapter for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises shall be open for business at any licensed location between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, no licensee which is operating in any location pursuant to a special event permit shall be permitted to sell or serve alcoholic beverages on any day between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and no special event permit holder, or person or entity under contract with such permit holder for the provision of alcoholic beverages shall suffer or permit the consumption of any alcoholic beverages within the special event location during such hours.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Section, any licensee which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or food in all of the combined retail outlets of the individual establishment where food is served, or which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross income from the rental of rooms for overnight lodging shall be permitted to operate between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., but shall not sell or serve any alcoholic beverages for consumption on-premises during such hours; and shall not suffer or permit the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises during such hours, except within rooms rented for overnight lodging, regardless of whether such beverages were purchased from the licensed location prior to 3:00 a.m., or were purchased elsewhere and brought onto the premises for the purposes of brown bagging.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Secs. 4-146—4-160. - Reserved.
