ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Armed security personnel means any security personnel who, in the course of performing any official job duty, is suffered, permitted, or required by his or her employer to carry a firearm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and notwithstanding whether such person is carrying a firearm in the course of performing any official job duty, any person who is a certified peace officer in good standing with the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council shall not be considered an armed security personnel for purposes of this Chapter.
Bar shall mean any business that derives 75 percent or more total annual gross revenue from the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2.
Brewpub means any bona fide food service establishment in which beer or malt beverages are manufactured or brewed subject to the barrel production limits and regulations under state law.
Brown bagging is the bringing of alcoholic beverages into business establishments for the purpose of drinking such alcoholic beverages at any such establishment.
Building code means and includes all building, plumbing and electrical codes and any other similar technical code of Macon-Bibb County.
Church means any permanent building where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
Cocktail room means an establishment licensed to manufacture distilled spirits from agricultural products other than perishable fruits grown in Georgia, which also offers for sale such distilled spirits for consumption on-premises, or packaged to go, or both, subject to limits and regulations under state law.
College means only such state, local government, church or other colleges that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common colleges of this state and shall not include private colleges where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Distilled spirits means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all fortified wines. For purposes of licensing and regulation, distilled spirits include liquor, spirituous liquor, whiskey and fortified wine.
Drugstore shall mean a retail store that provides assorted items including medical or healthcare supplies, that may also provide other items or services such as over-the-counter drugs; processed food and drink items; beauty products; small toys; or photo processing services; and that is licensed by the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy to operate a pharmacy. This term does not include Food Marts, Gas Stations, Grocery Stores, Small Box Discount Stores, Specialty Stores, or Vice Marts.
Food Mart shall mean a retail store licensed by the Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture as a food sales establishment, which has a total retail floor space of less than 10,000 square feet, of which at least 85 percent is reserved for the sale of food and other nonalcoholic items, and which regularly sells, at a minimum and among other products: at least five different types of fresh fruits or vegetables; fresh, raw beef, chicken, or pork; fresh chicken eggs; bread; and fresh cow's milk. This term does not include Drugstores, Gas Stations, Grocery Stores, Small Box Discount Stores, Specialty Stores, or Vice Marts; provided that a Food Mart may or may not be licensed by the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy to operate a pharmacy.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Gas Station shall mean a retail store that meets the definition of a Vice Mart, and that is also licensed by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner for the storage and sale of liquefied petroleum gas and that actually regularly sells liquefied petroleum gas. This term does not include Drugstores, Food Marts, Grocery Stores, Small Box Discount Stores, Specialty Stores, or Vice Marts that are not licensed by the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner for the storage and sale of liquefied petroleum gas and that actually regularly sell liquefied petroleum gas. For purposes of this Chapter, any rule or ordinance that applies to a Vice Mart shall not apply to a Gas Station unless expressly stated otherwise.
Grocery Store shall mean a retail store licensed by the Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture as a food sales establishment, which has a total retail floor space of at least 10,000 square feet, of which at least 85 percent is reserved for the sale of food and other nonalcoholic items, and which sells, at a minimum and among other products at least ten different types of fresh fruits or vegetables; fresh, raw beef, chicken, or pork; fresh chicken eggs; bread; and fresh cow's milk. This term does not include Drugstores, Food Marts, Gas Stations, Small Box Discount Stores, Specialty Stores, or Vice Marts; provided that a Grocery Store may or may not be licensed by the Georgia State Board of Pharmacy to operate a pharmacy.
License means any license or permit issued under this Chapter, however denominated.
Licensee means any person holding any license or permit issued under this Chapter, however denominated.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than fourteen percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Malt Beverage Taproom means an establishment licensed to manufacture malt beverages, which also offers for sale such malt beverages for consumption on premises, or packaged to go, or both, subject to limits and regulations under state law.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer or bottler of an alcoholic beverage. The term also means:
(1)
In the case of distilled spirits, any person engaged in distilling, rectifying, or blending any distilled spirits;
(2)
In the case of malt beverages, any brewer; and
(3)
In the case of wine, any vintner.
Minor means any person who has not attained the legal age as set by the state for the purchasing of alcoholic beverages.
Nightclub shall mean any business which:
(1)
directly or indirectly charges patrons for admission;
(2)
is licensed under this Chapter for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises;
(3)
provides entertainment using amplified sound, including, without limitation, the playing of pre-recorded music through amplified sound by a DJ or emcee or similar person; the playing of live analog, electronic, or digital musical instruments; the presentation of live human speech or dialogue through amplified sound; or any combination of the above;
(4)
does not provide a number of seats suitable for the viewing of such entertainment greater than or equal to the number of patrons present; and
(5)
does not earn at least fifty percent of its annual gross revenues from the sale of prepared meals or the letting of rooms for overnight stay.
Other Small Box Retail Store shall mean a retail store that meets each of the following criteria:
1.
the store has a total retail floor space of less than 15,000 square feet;
2.
the store does not meet the definition of Drug Store, Food Mart, Gas Station, Grocery Store, Small Box Discount Store, Specialty Store, or Vice Mart, as provided in this Chapter; and
3.
the store does not meet the criteria for a license under this Chapter for the retail package sales of distilled spirits or does meet such criteria, but is neither applying for nor in possession of a valid license issued under this Chapter for the retail package sales of distilled spirits.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Premises means the definite closed or partitioned establishment, whether room, shop or building wherein alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed. Premises shall also include the sidewalk serving area of sidewalk cafés permitted under the business regulations of this Code and an outside, open air or patio-type serving area on the private property of an establishment. Such outside, open air or patio-type serving area must meet all planning and zoning commission requirements and adjoin or be connected to the main service building in such a manner as to prevent the movement of pedestrians or vehicular traffic between the outside serving area and the main service building.
Private club means a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state actively in operation within the corporate limits of Macon-Bibb County, and having regularly paying monthly, quarterly or semiannual dues paying members.
Private residence means a house or dwelling wherein not less than one nor more than three families customarily reside and shall not include a mobile home, a boarding house where there are five or more boarders or roomers, or any residence which has been unoccupied for a period of six consecutive months immediately prior to the filing of an application. The term "private residence" shall not include any house or dwelling otherwise falling within the foregoing definition were such house or dwelling is regularly or customarily used for the purpose of carrying on any trade, enterprise, or business concern, whether lawful or unlawful, and regardless of whether the same is formally chartered or registered with any government, or any division thereof, for the transaction of business. This Chapter shall have no application to the possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any private residence; provided that no alcoholic beverages are being sold or offered for sale therein, and that any and all guests of such private residence are personally known by at least one person customarily residing in such private residence, and provided further that all such guests are present on the premises of such private residence at the invitation of, or by the consent of, at least one person customarily residing therein.
Retail means retail sales packaged to go and not for consumption on the premises.
Sale means the provision of any quantity of alcoholic beverages in exchange for any consideration whatsoever. A "sale" need not require the direct exchange of money for alcoholic beverages. As used in this Chapter, the term "sale" and other forms of such word shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1)
The provision of any quantity of alcoholic beverages at any event or on any premises, whether for or without separate payment, if persons attending such event or entering such premises are generally charged any amount of money, or are otherwise solicited, asked, expected, or anticipated to provide any monetary or in-kind donation, to so attend or so enter;
(2)
The provision of any quantity of alcoholic beverages, along with any other items, meals, goods, or services, for a single or combined price, including the giving of alcoholic beverages free of charge to any person who purchases any other item, meal, good, or service;
(3)
The provision of any quantity of alcoholic beverages in such circumstances that the recipient of such alcoholic beverages is not charged a specific amount of money to purchase such alcoholic beverages, but are solicited, asked, expected, or anticipated to provide any kind of monetary or in-kind donation or gratuity to any organization or to any person mixing, serving, or pouring such alcoholic beverages; or
(4)
Any other artifice, scheme, method, or arrangement by which the provider of the alcoholic beverages gains any financial, in-kind, or material benefit, whether from some or all recipients of alcoholic beverages, while providing such alcoholic beverages to any person within the scope of a single transaction or series of related transactions.
(5)
As used in this Chapter, the term "sale" shall not include any gratuitous gift or offer of alcoholic beverages which is made generally available to any member of the public to whom alcoholic beverages are lawfully able to be sold or served, regardless of whether such member of the public has made or inquired about making or has been requested to make any purchase, donation, or other offer of consideration of any kind. By way of example, and without limiting the foregoing, a retailer or event venue which allows any person to whom alcoholic beverages may lawfully be sold or served to receive, upon request, a quantity of alcoholic beverages free of charge, regardless of whether said recipients have made any purchase or payment or declared any intent to make any purchase or payment and without the provisioner requesting any purchase or payment be made shall not be considered to have engaged in any "sale" within the scope of this Chapter.
School means only such state, local government, church or other schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools of this state and shall not include private schools where only specialized subjects such as law, stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations and other special subjects are taught.
Security personnel shall mean any person hired to work at a bar or nightclub as either an employee or an independent contractor, whose job duties include protecting any person therein from death or serious bodily harm, or preventing or breaking up fights between or involving patrons.
Small Box Discount Store shall mean a retail store that provides assorted, inexpensive items that are continuously offered at a discounted price that is usually under $10 per item. These stores are commonly referred to by names such as "dollar stores," "99 cent stores," "five dollar stores," "discount stores," or "variety stores." Products sold typically include processed food and drink items, personal hygiene products, office supplies and decorations. Retail floor space is typically less than 15,000 square feet. This term does not include Drug Stores, Food Marts, Gas Stations, Grocery Stores, Specialty Stores, or Vice Marts.
Specialty Store shall mean a retail store that derives at least 50% of its annual gross sales from the sale of certain specialized classes or types of food or beverage products, or related accessories or non-food items. Such products are typically of a superior quality or more limited market availability than those general products commonly found in Grocery Stores. This definition shall include businesses licensed as brewpubs, malt beverage taprooms, or cocktail rooms under this Chapter. This definition shall not include Drugstores, Food Marts, Gas Stations, Grocery Stores, Small Box Discount Stores, or Vice Marts. Appropriate specialized classes of products may include, without limitation, any of the following:
a.
imported or luxury foods or beverages;
b.
foods, beverages, or accessories associated with a particular culture, global region, cuisine, or nationality;
c.
foods, beverages, or accessories conforming to or supporting the dietary requirements of any sincerely held religious practice or belief;
d.
prepared foods (i.e., restaurants);
e.
organic, vegan, or natural foods and beverages;
f.
meats (e.g., butcher shops, delicatessens, or fish or seafood markets);
g.
cheese or dairy products;
h.
oils, seasonings, or spices;
i.
growlers, craft beers, or wine;
j.
breads or baked goods;
k.
cigars;
l.
honey or beeswax products;
m.
food or beverage products grown or produced within the State of Georgia or any particular location therein; or
n.
any similarly specialized products or classes of products.
Tax commissioner means the Tax Commissioner of the Macon-Bibb County.
Vice Mart shall mean a retail store that provides assorted, inexpensive items for neighborhood residents or travelers, such as processed shelf-stable or refrigerated food and drink items; fountain and brewed drinks; handheld prepared food items; automotive items; tobacco products; family planning products; lottery products; gifts; over-the-counter medications; or similar items. Stores are typically designed for expediency—with customers typically buying few items per transaction and spending only a short time in the store. Retail floor space is typically less than 10,000 square feet. This term does not include Gas Stations, Grocery Stores, Food Marts, Small Box Discount Stores, Specialty Stores, or Drugstores.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this Section.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018; Ord. No. O-20-0045 , §§ 1.A—E, 7-21-2020; Ord. No. O-21-0019 , §§ 1.A, 1.B, 3-2-2021)
Sec. 4-2. - Familiarity with chapter.
It shall be the duty of each licensee to maintain a copy of this Chapter on the premises, and to instruct each employee as to the terms thereof; and each licensee and employee shall at all times be familiar with this Chapter.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-3. - Responsibility for acts of employees and others.
Licensees are charged with the responsibility hereunder for compliance with this Chapter by their officers, agents, servants and employees. Licensees are responsible for acts in violation of this Chapter performed by others if with the knowledge of the licensee.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-4. - Removal of alcoholic beverage served for consumption on the premises prohibited.
No alcoholic beverage sold pursuant to a license for sales of wine and malt beverages for consumption on the premises, for sales of distilled spirits for consumption on the premises or for sales in connection with food service as provided in Section 4-126, may be removed from the premises on which such alcoholic beverage is sold.
(Ord. No. O-18-0109 , § 1, 12-4-2018)
Sec. 4-5. - Certification of good standing required, when.
In addition to all other requirements in this Chapter, no person or entity shall be entitled to receive or renew any license under this Chapter unless such person or entity complies with the certificate of good standing requirements set forth in Division 1 of Article II of Chapter 26 of this Code at the time the license or license renewal is applied for.
(Ord. No. O-22-0011 , § 3, 3-1-2022)
Secs. 4-6—4-20. - Reserved.
