SECTION 37.
(a)
Effective September 1, 2012, there is created a transition task force for the purpose of planning and preparing for the assumption of governmental powers by the restructured governing authority. The transition task force shall be composed of members as follows:
(1)
The chairperson of the board of commissioners of Bibb County who shall be the co-chief executive officer of the task force;
(2)
The chairperson of the finance committee of the board of commissioners of Bibb County;
(3)
The chairperson of the finance committee of the city council of the City of Macon;
(4)
The mayor of the City of Macon who shall be the co-chief executive officer of the task force;
(5)
The president of the city council of the City of Macon;
(6)
The president of the Bibb County Chamber of Commerce or his or her designee;
(7)
The Macon City Police Chief;
(8)
The chairperson of the Bibb County delegation in the General Assembly who shall serve as chairperson of the transition task force;
(9)
The vice-chairperson of the Bibb County delegation in the General Assembly;
(10)
The sheriff of Bibb County; and
(11)
Five members appointed by the members of the General Assembly whose districts include all or any portion of Bibb County.
The transition task force shall meet upon the call of the chairperson of the transition task force for the purpose of planning and scheduling the initial organization of the government in accordance with the applicable provisions of this charter.
(b)
The transition task force shall be authorized to make such recommendations as it deems appropriate for the assumption of governmental powers by the commission. The transition task force is specifically charged with the responsibility of developing proposed ordinances which should be considered for adoption by the commission at its first regular meeting held following the second Tuesday in September, 2012, or at a regular meeting of the commission held as soon thereafter as practicable.
(c)
All officers, officials, including elected officials, and employees of Bibb County and the City of Macon shall cooperate with and assist the transition task force. The transition task force shall be entitled to examine all records, files, and other data in the possession of Bibb County and the City of Macon and all officers, officials, and employees and departments thereof. Bibb County and the City of Macon shall, to the extent possible, provide working areas and facilities for the transition task force.
(d)
The transition task force shall be authorized to receive and expend appropriations from the board of commissioners of Bibb County and from the mayor and commission of the City of Macon for the purpose of carrying out its duties, but members of the transition task force shall receive no compensation for their services as such members.
(e)
During the period beginning on the date on which this charter is approved in the referendum provided for by Section 45 of this charter, it shall be the duty of the transition task force to recommend and the duty of the board of commissioners of Bibb County and the mayor and commission of the City of Macon to implement, where possible, such restructuring or reorganization of services, functions, powers, and duties as may be advantageous to the restructuring of such governments.
(f)
The transition task force shall be abolished on the date specified by the commission.
