DIVISION 9. - ENFORCEMENT

Sec. 98-391. - Notification of violation.
When the director of utilities or his designated representative finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued under this article, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director or his representative may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within 15 days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the director. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the director to take any action including emergency actions or any other enforcement actions, without first issuing a notice of violation.
Sec. 98-392. - Consent orders.
The director of utilities may enter into consent orders, assurance of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to this article and shall be judicially enforceable.
Sec. 98-393. - Show cause hearing.
The city may order a user which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article a wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this article or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appeal before the director of utilities and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 98-394. - Hearing procedure.
The director of utilities may conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or may designate any employee of the department to:
(1)
Issue in the name of the director of utilities notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings.
(2)
Take the evidenced.
(3)
Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the director of utilities for action thereon.
Sec. 98-395. - Hearing testimony.
At any hearing held pursuant to this article, testimony must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof.
Sec. 98-396. - Order to be issued.
After the director of utilities has reviewed the evidence, he may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time period, the sewer service may be disconnected unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been installed on existing treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
Sec. 98-397. - Administrative compliance orders.
When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article a wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this article, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director of utilities may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 98-398. - Cease and desist orders.
When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this article for any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the director of utilities may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing it to cease and desist such violations and directing the user to:
(1)
Immediately comply with all requirements; and
(2)
Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 98-399. - Administrative fines.
(a)
When the director of utilities finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate any provision of this article, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued under this article for any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the director of utilities may fine such user in an amount not to exceed $100.00. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
(b)
Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall after 30 calendar days be assessed an additional penalty of one percent of the unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one percent per month. A lien against the user's property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
(c)
Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for the director of utilities to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the director of utilities may convene a hearing on the matter. If the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The director of utilities may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
(d)
Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for taking any other action against the user.
Sec. 98-400. - Emergency suspensions.
The director of utilities or his designated representative may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The director or his representative may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
(1)
Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or the endangerment to any individuals. The city may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director or his representative that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in this article are initiated against the user.
(2)
A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence, to the director of utilities prior to the date of any show cause or termination hearing under the provisions of the article.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
Sec. 98-401. - Termination of service.
The city may terminate water and waste disposal service and disconnect the user from the system when:
(1)
A government agency informs the city that the effluent from the wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to the city's system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment.
(2)
The user:
a.
Discharges industrial wastewater that is in violation of the permit issued by the city.
b.
Discharges wastewater which has a deleterious effect upon the city's sewer system.
c.
Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in sufficient quantity to cause imbalance in the wastewater treatment system.
d.
Fails to accurately report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge, or fails to report significant changes in operations or wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge.
e.
Refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling.
f.
Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services when due.
g.
Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
h.
Is in violation of federal pretreatment requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the director shall not be a bar against the user.
Sec. 98-402. - Disconnection.
If service is disconnected pursuant to this article, the city shall:
(1)
Disconnect the customer.
(2)
Supply the customer with the governmental agency's report and provide the customer with all pertinent information.
(3)
Continue disconnection until such time as the industrial customer provides additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the objectionable characteristics from its industrial wastes.
Sec. 98-403. - Publication of users in significant noncompliance.
The director of utilities shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper published in the city, a list of the users which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. The term "significant compliance" shall mean:
(1)
Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as those in which 66 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month period exceeded the maximum daily limit or average daily limit for the same pollutant parameter by any amount;
(2)
Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in which 33 percent or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
(3)
Any other discharge violation that the director of utilities believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
(4)
Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the director of utilities' exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such discharge;
(5)
Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
(6)
Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
(7)
Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
(8)
Any other violation which the director of utilities determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
Secs. 98-404—98-430. - Reserved.
