ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES[6]
Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee saved from repeal, § 1-6(4); personnel, ch. 78.
State Law reference— Personal liability of councilmembers and other municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; power to define, regulate and alter the powers, duties, qualifications, compensation and tenure of municipal officers, agents and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2(2); municipal or county governments not to require residence as condition of employment, O.C.G.A. § 45-2-5.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-141. - Clerk of council.
There is created an office in and for the city to be known as the clerk of council. The clerk of council shall be selected by the city manager. The clerk of council shall attend all meetings of the city council and shall record the minutes of such meetings.
(Code 1976, § 2-3011; Ord. No. 76-7, § 1, 3-10-1976)
Secs. 2-142—2-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - CITY MARSHAL

Sec. 2-161. - Appointment; duties generally.
The city manager shall appoint a city marshal, who shall perform the duties and responsibilities prescribed by the city manager or of the community development director consistent therewith.
(Code 1976, § 2-3001)
Sec. 2-162. - Oath; bond.
The city marshal shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe an oath that he will faithfully perform such duties, and give bond with good security in such amount as may be required by the mayor and council, for the faithful performance of his duties.
(Code 1976, § 2-3002)
Sec. 2-163. - Revenue collections.
(a)
It shall be the duty of the city marshal to collect all executions issued for ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes or license fees, assessments, revenues, fees, costs and other charges. All sales under such executions shall be held by the city marshal as provided by law.
(b)
The city marshal shall collect all delinquent ad valorem taxes, occupation taxes, assessments, revenues, fees, costs and other charges. It shall also be the duty of the city marshal to levy and enforce such collection, as provided by law, and all executions placed in his hands for such purpose, and to do all the acts and things necessary in connection therewith to enforce the collection.
(Code 1976, § 2-3003)
Sec. 2-164. - Duty to place purchaser at tax sale in possession.
(a)
Upon the sale of any property, real or personal, under any execution issued by authority of the Charter of the city and ordinances passed pursuant to the Charter, and after the time fixed by law to redeem the same, it shall be the duty of the city marshal, or other levying officer of the city, conducting the sale, or his successor in office with the assistance, if necessary of any policeman, or policeman of the city, on request of such purchaser at the sale, or his attorney at law or agent, to put the purchaser, his attorney or agent, in possession of the property, provided that the officer shall not turn out any person other than the defendant or anyone claiming under him.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any defendant in such execution, or anyone claiming under him, to resist the marshal or levying officer in the execution of his duty as defined in subsection (a) of this section.
(Code 1976, § 2-3004)
Secs. 2-165—2-190. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TRAVEL EXPENSES AND ADVANCES

Sec. 2-191. - Governing body and appointed officials.
All members of the mayor and council and appointed officials of the city will be advanced or reimbursed travel expenses for travel in connection with city business on the following basis:
(1)
Advances.
a.
All requests for advances against expenses must be signed by the person requesting the advance and approved by the mayor or the mayor pro tem in his absence. No advances against expenses, including prepayment of lodging, registration or travel expenses, shall be made until approved by the mayor in writing.
b.
All advance request forms shall be completed in full detail by each person making an advance request on the form provided by the city manager.
(2)
Expense form.
a.
Upon return from any trip, an expense form shall be completed in full by the person making the trip. This form shall be returned no later than 14 days following the trip to be reimbursed.
b.
The expense form shall be signed by the person filing the request, the mayor or mayor pro tem, and by the city manager attesting to its compliance with the established procedure and approved by the city manager.
c.
Moneys reimbursed to the city must be shown on an attached receipt to any expense request.
d.
Documentation must accompany all expense forms in the form of motel-hotel bills, plane tickets, and beginning and ending mileage for mileage reimbursement.
e.
The city manager's expense form shall be reviewed and approved by the mayor or the mayor pro tem.
f.
The mayor or mayor pro tem's expense form will be reviewed and signed by either (but not their own approval) and a member of the governing body and the city manager.
(3)
Travel policy.
a.
It is the policy of mayor and council that all travel and business expenses incurred by mayor and council must meet the following criteria in order to be reimbursable:
1.
The purpose for which the expense was incurred must be of benefit to the city.
2.
The amount of the expenses must be reasonable under the circumstances and in relation to the event or activity involved and the benefit to which it relates. On behalf of the mayor and council members, staff must seek the lowest possible prices or government rates at hosting facilities or nearby facilities.
3.
The city will pay all reasonable travel expenses for members of the governing body for attending all Georgia Municipal Association meetings, including those committees and subcommittees to which members belong and the board of directors where they are members, National League of Cities Annual Conference, the annual Lowndes County Bird Supper, the annual Washington, D.C. trip, the annual Legislative Black Caucus, the Community Planning Institute sponsored by the Georgia Planning Association, GMA's Newly Elected Officials Training, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors annual meeting without being specifically authorized by a majority of mayor and council for expense reimbursement. Any member of the governing authority may travel to any approved event provided such travel is within the approved budgeted amount provided however such travel is not in conflict with subsection (3)a.2. Travel expenses to attend other meetings will be paid only for those meetings and members specifically authorized by a majority vote of mayor and council to attend.
4.
Except as otherwise provided herein, in every case where the payment of travel expenses is authorized, the city will pay registration fees, the actual reasonable costs of transportation and lodging, and a maximum food allowance of $50.00 per day, not including gratuities, unless the food expenses occurred in a metropolitan statistical area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau with a population of over 400,000, the maximum reimbursement of $75.00 per day, not including gratuities. Costs for less than a whole day shall be prorated. No expenditures in excess of the maximum here stated will be reimbursable except when deemed by a majority of mayor and council to have been warranted under the circumstances. In order to be considered for reimbursement, such expenses must be fully documented. Reimbursement will not be granted when the cost of any meal is free or included in the registration fee of the event.
5.
City credit cards will be issued to members of council for out-of-town travel. Council shall have the discretion to store these city cards in the city manager's office or may retain physical possession of the card. Non-city business charges are not allowed.
6.
Transportation costs will be paid by the city only for the most reasonable and economical means. The use of city-owned vehicles for travel is permissible provided prior approval by the city manager or mayor is obtained, which approval shall be withheld only in the event a vehicle is not available. Where travel by a personal vehicle is authorized, the city will reimburse to and from the destination based upon the prevailing travel rate established by the internal revenue service (IRS). For elected officials who receive a car allowance, half of this travel rate will be eligible for reimbursement. The costs associated with any changes or deviations from the approved method of travel will be the responsibility of the traveler. Mileage to destination shall be determined by MapQuest or other recognized map site and shall be used as a base mileage for the trip including return. No more than a five percent deviation from that mileage shall be paid unless explanation is provided and approved by mayor and city manager. The rate will be determined each year in accordance with the rate allowed by the internal revenue service and will remain in effect for the full calendar year.
7.
The clerk or assistant clerk of council may provide travel assistance to members of mayor and council as may be needed or requested. This includes the arrangement of itinerary, registration, reservations for travel and lodging, transportation tickets, advances, and other assistance that may be applicable.
8.
The actual cost of meals, not to exceed $50.00 per day, will be paid for spouses of council members attending official functions of the Georgia Municipal Association. Spouses may travel to official functions of GMA. However, no lodging, transportation, or other travel expenses of spouses will be paid, other than meals as outlined above. In no event will the city pay travel expenses for children or other persons who may accompany members of mayor and council.
9.
Alcoholic beverages shall not be considered for reimbursement to individual members of the governing authority; however alcoholic beverages are eligible when it is an official dinner or function hosted by the city. The number of guests and names city officials must be attached to the reimbursement form(s).
10.
Any unused portion of any advances, overpayments, and any amounts due the city which are not reimbursed at the time of filing of the travel expense report, or within 14 calendar days as required hereunder, shall be deducted from the compensation of the member or appointed official.
11.
City council members travel expense forms shall be filed with the finance director giving complete details, including a travel expense report with supporting itemized receipts and documentation, and certified by the member to be true and correct. The member's expense form shall be reviewed and signed by the mayor and the city manager provided it meets the requirements of this policy.
12.
Any decision made by the mayor disallowing travel expenses must be based upon a specific violation of this policy and may be appealed to the mayor and council to be heard at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
13.
The mayor and council shall have an individual travel budget for out of town travel as follows: The mayor shall have a fiscal year budget of $12,000.00 and each member of council shall have a fiscal year budget of $6,000.00. In addition, the city will budget a specific amount for the event costs of the Bird Supper, the Washington D.C. trip and for any other such budgeted trip that might be necessary in the future, for expenses unique to those trips. Each member's expenses for those trips shall be included on the individual members travel expense statement. In addition, the city will budget an amount for miscellaneous trips that can be used by any of the member's upon the vote and approval of the governing authority when determined necessary and in the best interest of the city.
14.
The mayor shall have authority to make any trip or travel which, in his judgment, he deems necessary and in the city's best interest for economic development or any other purpose related to city business and deemed by the mayor to be in the best interest of the city's welfare. The mayor shall be allowed to take with him such person or persons as he considers essential to the success of the trip and the expenses of said trip shall be paid by the city with the approval of the mayor pro tem and the councilman at large. The mayor's travel expense form shall be filed with the finance director giving complete details, including a travel expense statement with supporting itemized receipt(s) and documentation, and certified by the mayor to be true and correct. The mayor's expense form shall be reviewed and signed by the mayor, the mayor pro tem, and the city manager within ten days of receipt provided it meets the requirements of this policy and may be posted to the city's website in accordance with subsection a.19 of this section. The finance department will provide reimbursement to the mayor no later than ten business days after stamped received by the senior accounting clerk responsible for travel. Travel expenses shall not exceed the annual budgeted amount.
15.
Council members travel expenses shall not exceed the annual budgeted amount. Council members' travel expense forms shall be filed with the finance director giving complete details, including a travel expense report with supporting itemized receipt(s) and documentation, and certified by the council member to be true and correct. Council members' expense forms shall be reviewed and signed by the mayor and the city manager within ten days of receipt provided it meets the requirements of this policy and may be posted to the city's website in accordance with subsection a.19 of this section. The finance department will provide reimbursement to council members no later than ten business days after stamped received by the senior accounting clerk responsible for travel. In order for an expense form to be stamped received, it must have the city manager's and mayor's approval signature affixed.
16.
At next available mayor/council meeting upon return from a trip, mayor/council may report any travel and the purpose of the travel during council comments. In the event there were numerous members of mayor/council traveling, one member can report for all.
17.
When a member of mayor/council, or their representative, serves on a board or organization related to their position with the city and that board/organization provides travel, meals, and/or lodging reimbursement or per diem for such, said member will file all travel costs associated with that organization and not the City of Valdosta. If, during this travel, said member performs any separate functions directly related to their role with the City of Valdosta, travel expenses above and beyond those covered by the board/organization will be eligible for reimbursement as allowed within the city travel policy. In such cases, copies of all reimbursement forms submitted to the board/organization must be included in the city travel reimbursement form for verification purposes.
18.
The reimbursement for tips at meals will be included when the tip is automatically added into the bill, or when added to the bill by mayor/council up to 18 percent of the total bill. All tips must be paid on the city's charge card. No cash tips for meals will be reimbursed. Additional tip included by mayor/council will not be reimbursed.
19.
Within ten days of filing a travel expense statement, members of mayor and council may have posted on the city's website the following: (a) a copy of the individual member's travel statement including: (1) number of officials/guests, (2) event name, (3) location, (4) purpose, (5) benefit to the city, and (6) reimbursement forms with receipts.
(Code 1976, § 2-3012(a); Ord. No. 92-30, 8-6-1992; Ord. No. 94-16, 7-7-1994; Ord. No. 97-11, 4-10-1997; Ord. No. 2001-8, §§ 1—4, 3-8-2001; Ord. No. 2008-8, 2-7-2008; Ord. No. 2010-14, 4-8-2010; Ord. No. 2011-9, § 1, 3-24-2011; Ord. No. 2011-25, 7-7-2011)
Sec. 2-192. - City employees.
(a)
Advances.
(1)
All requests for advance travel expenses must be signed by the person requesting the advance, by the respective department head and approved by the city manager. All requests must be submitted on the form authorized by the city manager.
(2)
All advance request forms shall be completed in full detail by each employee making an advance request.
(b)
Credit cards. All credit cards of the city shall be kept and maintained by the city manager or his designee and shall be disbursed to any city employee only upon the request of the respective department head. Any and all credit cards shall be returned immediately upon return from any travel.
(c)
Expense forms.
(1)
Upon return from any work-related trip, an expense form shall be completed in full by the employee making the trip. This form shall be returned and submitted to the city manager no later than 30 days following a trip.
(2)
The expense form shall be signed by the employee filing the request, by his department head, and by the accounting department attesting to its compliance with the established procedure and approved by the city manager.
(3)
Moneys reimbursed to the city must be shown on an attached receipt to the expense request.
(4)
Documentation must accompany all expense requests in the form of motel/hotel bills, plane tickets, and beginning and ending mileage for mileage reimbursement.
(d)
Travel policy. All city employees will be advanced travel funds or reimbursed travel funds for employment-connected travel upon the following criteria and schedule:
(1)
Meals will be reimbursed to the employee up to $35.00 per diem basis, not including gratuities; except if the expenses occurred in a metropolitan area with a population of over 400,000, the maximum cost per day shall be $50.00, not including gratuities. Reimbursement will begin with the first meal following departure from the city.
(2)
Meals and hotel charges will be reimbursed at the single rate.
(3)
Charges for telephone calls regarding city business will be reimbursed.
(4)
Charges for alcoholic beverages will not be reimbursed.
(5)
Travel reimbursement costs will be the lesser of day coach fare destination or the current reimbursement mileage rate for a personal vehicle as designated by the Internal Revenue Service.
(6)
Travel reimbursement for use of a personal vehicle will be at the current rate designated by the Internal Revenue Service.
(7)
Spouse registration, lodging, travel and event participation will be at the expense of the employee.
(8)
Pre-registration of conference or meetings that include costs for meals will not be limited to $35.00 per day meal cost, but shall be subject to the approval of the city manager.
(Code 1976, § 2-3012(b); Ord. No. 77-1, §§ 1—4, 1-27-1977; Ord. No. 77-2, §§ 1—4, 1-27-1977; Ord. No. 79-5, 2-7-1979; Ord. No. 79-39, 8-8-1979; Ord. No. 79-40, 8-8-1979; Ord. No. 81-33, 7-23-1981; Ord. No. 86-19, 3-20-1986; Ord. No. 92-30, 8-6-1992; Ord. No. 94-16, 7-7-1994; Ord. No. 97-11, 4-10-1997)
Secs. 2-193—2-230. - Reserved.
