Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Business regulations, ch. 22.
State Law reference— State licensing of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.

Sec. 10-1. - Pool rooms, similar places.
No pool table, bowling alley, boxball alley, or other similar game shall be allowed to run in places screened from public view, except in private homes and in the clubrooms of private clubs not run for profit or gain to the owners.
(Code 1976, § 11-5002)
Sec. 10-2. - Sweepstakes parlors.
(a)
Gambling and non-sanctioned lotteries are illegal in the State of Georgia.
(b)
With daily advances in electronic and computer technology, attempts at circumventing state law regarding illegal gaming has evolved from readily apparent methods to more veiled and camouflaged schemes.
(c)
In recognition of this, the State of Georgia specifically prohibited the use of video poker machines in 2006.
(d)
Since 2006, various programs have been created that allow computers and other electronic machines and devices to conduct a sweepstakes which purportedly entitle participants to have a chance to win various prizes and rewards in return for the purchase of token services or products such as internet service, telephone cards, and office supplies, among other products.
(e)
Certain companies are advertising on the internet that these sweepstakes are legal in the State of Georgia (see www.cashoutgaming.com).
(f)
These websites explain how to evade the gambling laws in states such as Georgia by establishing sweepstakes parlors.
(g)
These business models appear to represent an attempt to circumvent the laws of the State of Georgia that generally prohibit gambling and illegal lotteries.
(h)
The sale of goods or services to patrons appears to be no more than a subterfuge for promoting gambling on the premises.
(i)
A number of jurisdictions around the United States either have passed or are contemplating the passage of laws, statutes, or ordinances banning or prohibiting such sweepstakes parlors.
(j)
On March 10, 2011, the mayor and council passed a 120-day moratorium on accepting and processing applications for businesses that intended on operating sweepstakes parlors.
(k)
The mayor and city council finds that promoting and establishing non-sanctioned lotteries is illegal in the State of Georgia and constitutes commercial gambling.
(l)
The mayor and council find that requiring participants in a sweepstakes scheme to pay any tangible consideration to the operator of such business in the form of money or other property or thing of value and/or to purchase any goods, wares, merchandise, services or anything of value from such business to be eligible for a prize further constitutes an illegal lottery.
(m)
The mayor and council find that it is in the best interest of the health and general welfare of the residents and businesses of the City of Valdosta that sweepstakes conducted by requiring a participant to access, play, or enter the sweepstakes only through the purchase of a product or service should be banned in the city.
(n)
The mayor and council further find that requiring a participant to purchase goods and services, even if the goods and services have an independent value equal to that charged to the participant, is a mere token form of consideration and is illegal.
(o)
On March 15, 2011, the Hon. Samuel Olens, Attorney General of the State of Georgia, also concluded that such a method of business was illegal.
(p)
Any such method of operating a sweepstakes as described above shall be banned in the City of Valdosta.
(q)
Any and all businesses that plan on utilizing such a sweepstakes shall be informed of the ordinance codified herein prohibiting the use of same.
(r)
The refusal to abide by the terms of this section shall be grounds for the denial of any permit the business applicant seeks.
(s)
The effective date of the ordinance codified herein is July 1, 2011.
(Ord. No. 2011-23, 6-23-2011)
