DIVISION 6. - WATER QUALITY AND QUANTITY DETERMINATIONS

Sec. 98-311. - Quality changes.
The director of utilities shall have made, from time to time, tests to determine the quality of waste being discharged into the city sewer from users or connectors, including the premises of industrial waste disposal permit holders under the provisions hereof. If, at any time, such waste becomes or the industrial process changes to a quality that requires pretreatment according to the city standards, the director of utilities shall have the authority to require that proper permits be obtained and proper pretreatment facilities be installed by the permit holder. Should any user or connector, or a permit holder fail to or refuse to install such utilities or initiate their installation to the satisfaction and approval of the director of utilities, within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the director of utilities, the director of utilities shall have the authority to revoke such permit and to terminate sewer service to such premises until such time as the owner thereof has complied with the requirement of this article and shall have the authority to assess administrative fines as provided in division 12 of this article.
(Code 1976, § 5-2101; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979; Ord. No. 83-29, 9-8-1983; Ord. No. 89-43, 11-9-1989)
Sec. 98-312. - Standard of quality.
(a)
Wastes will be accepted which have been placed in satisfactory conditions or quality after pretreatment by the producer in a plant or by a process which has been approved by the director of utilities and which is continuously maintained and operated by the producer at no cost to the city and which is continuously subject to inspection by the director of utilities or his designated representative. The construction plans for such pretreatment plants shall after their approval be placed on file in permanent reproducible form with the director of utilities without costs to the city.
(b)
All industrial users shall meet federal pretreatment requirements set forth in 40 CFR 403.
(Code 1976, § 5-2102; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Sec. 98-313. - Quality determination.
(a)
Determination of the average concentration or strength of the waste delivered shall be the obligation of the city except as provided by industrial, contribution permits and tests made on representative average samples collected by the city shall be made at intervals as the city may desire so long as at least annual samples are taken.
(b)
Samples may be taken and tests made at the city's option without notice to the owner and test results made and approved by the city shall be final in fixing the application rate. However, the owner may request in writing that parallel sampling and tests at all times be made by the owner and the city, in which case consideration may be given to using the average of comparable values obtained by the owner and the city.
(Code 1976, § 5-2103; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Sec. 98-314. - Quantity determination.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided, the quantity of waste delivered to city sewers will be used as the same as the water delivered to the producer by the city water system; if well water is to be used it must be known to the city and metered at the user's standards. The user shall pay the city the costs incurred in periodic maintenance, meter reading, and billing. Such metering devices will be available to the city at all reasonable times.
(b)
Should the producer evaporate or dispose of water delivered by the city water system, it shall be the obligation of the producer to install such meters or other devices to determine the portion or quantity delivered to the sewer system.
(c)
The director of utilities will consider establishing a constant ratio, factor or percentage to be applied to the metered water quantity delivered by the city in order to determine the waste delivered by the industry. Determination of this factor shall be the responsibility of the waste producer as also shall be the demonstration to obtain the director of utilities' approval of the factor. The value of this factor will be periodically reviewed for accuracy.
(d)
All industries, commercial organizations, or other procedures of liquid waste of any form, including domestic waste as at apartments, hotels, motels, hospitals, universities, schools, or homes served by the city sewer system, and for which the water supply is from private wells or other suppliers of water, must pay a sewer connection charge to the city.
(e)
It shall be the obligation of the owner in all instances to submit a statement immediately where no payment procedure is established to the director of utilities and if any changes take place after billing rate of charges have been initially established using forms supplied by the director of utilities.
(Code 1976, § 5-2106; Ord. No. 79-8, 3-7-1979)
Secs. 98-315—98-340. - Reserved.
