ARTICLE VI. - TAXATION[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— This article is a compilation of various special acts of the Georgia General Assembly which do not justify treatment as an article or division of this part I. Section numbers have been arbitrarily assigned to the provisions of this article, and history notes have been provided indicating the source of each section.

Section 1. - Tax commissioner; consolidation of city-county taxation procedures.
Ga. Const. art. XI, § I, ¶ VI is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof a new paragraph to read as follows:
Provided, however, that notwithstanding any provision of law or of this constitution to the contrary, the respective governing authorities of the City of Valdosta and the County of Lowndes may, solely by their joint resolution, consolidate, merge, and combine the offices, officers and functions of the city and of the county relating to the time, manner and method for the return, collection, property assessment, notice of property assessment, hearing, appeal, arbitration or review of property assessment, lien, priority of lien and collection of ad valorem taxes levied by the City of Valdosta and County of Lowndes and State of Georgia, and respecting any and all other matters relating or incident to the same, to specify and provide for the time, method and manner of performing any and all such matters and functions; provided further, however, that the tax commissioner of the County of Lowndes, as elected from time to time pursuant to law applicable to such office, shall be in charge of such combined and consolidated tax office and function, and such tax commissioner shall additionally perform the duties of his office as tax commissioner as required by law; provided further, that any provision of law or of this constitution to the contrary, the said tax commissioner shall be compensated by the City of Valdosta for the additional duties and responsibilities hereby imposed which compensation shall be in addition to that compensation heretofore or hereafter provided by law to be paid to him by the County of Lowndes said compensation to be agreed upon by said tax commissioner and the City of Valdosta annually or in the event a disagreement shall arise between the City of Valdosta and said tax commissioner or there shall be a failure to reach an agreement by the 31st day of January of each year, then the City of Valdosta or the tax commissioner shall be authorized to appeal to arbitration. In such event the City of Valdosta and the tax commissioner shall, within three days of the appeal to arbitration, name their respective arbitrators, each of them naming one arbitrator, and the two arbitrators so appointed shall choose a third arbitrator. In the event the two arbitrators so chosen are unable to agree on a third arbitrator within five days, the judge of the superior court shall appoint a third arbitrator. Thereafter, the determination and judgment rendered by such arbitration committee shall be made within ten days, and the decision of such committee shall be the compensation to the tax commissioner from the City of Valdosta for that year and paid monthly; provided further, that the powers herein delegated may be exercised from time to time and either together, separately or in any combination of the same; provided, however, that such action may be changed, superseded, or revoked by legislative action which act shall be binding on the city and county until subsequently changed by the general assembly; and provided further that nothing herein shall be construed to authorize any change in the ad valorem tax millage limitation prescribed by any legislative act.
(1974 Ga. Laws, p. 1715, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment set forth above was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3663, as a part of the state constitution.
Section 2. - Homestead tax exemption.
The homestead of each resident of the City of Valdosta actually occupied by the owner as a residence and homestead, and only so long as actually occupied by the owner primarily as such, but not to exceed $6,000.00 of its value, is hereby exempted from all ad valorem taxes levied by the city, including school taxes levied by the City of Valdosta for the independent school district of the City of Valdosta, except to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness. The value of all property in excess of the foregoing exemption shall remain subject to taxation. Said exemption shall be returned and claimed in such manner as prescribed by the General Assembly. The increased exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980.
Each resident of the City of Valdosta who is 65 years of age or over is hereby granted an exemption from all ad valorem taxes levied by the city, including school taxes levied by the City of Valdosta for the independent school district of the City of Valdosta, except to pay interest on and retire bonded indebtedness, in the amount of $10,000.00 on a homestead owned and occupied by him as a residence. The value of the residence in excess of the above exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation. Any such owner shall not receive the benefits of such homestead exemption unless he, or through his agent, files an affidavit with the governing authority of the City of Valdosta or the person designated by the governing authority, giving his age and such additional information relative to receiving the benefits of such exemption as will enable the governing authority of the city or the person designated by the governing authority to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption. The governing authority of the city or the person designated by the governing authority shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose. Such applications shall be processed in the same manner as other applications for homestead exemption and the provisions of law applicable to the processing of homestead exemptions, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended, shall apply thereto. Once any such owner has filed the proper affidavit and has been allowed the exemption provided herein, it shall not be necessary that he make application and file the said affidavit thereafter for any year and the said exemption shall continue to be allowed to such owner. It shall be the duty of any such owner, however, to notify the governing authority of the city or the person designated by the governing authority in the event he becomes ineligible for any reason for the exemption provided in this paragraph. The general assembly may provide by law for the proper administration of this exemption including penalties necessary therefor. The increased exemption provided for herein shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 2273, § 1)
Editor's note— The constitutional amendment set forth above was continued in force and effect by 1985 Ga. Laws, page 3653, as a part of the state constitution.
