ARTICLE II. - MAYOR AND COUNCIL
CHAPTER 1. - COUNCIL

Section 2.1. - Council constitutes governing body.
The government of the city shall be vested in the mayor and council, which shall exercise their powers in conformity with the provisions of this Charter and in accordance with the provisions of the general statutes and Constitution of the State of Georgia with regard to the powers, rights, and privileges of municipalities which are not provided for by the provisions of this Charter.
Section 2.2. - Number of members; election.
The mayor and council shall consist of the mayor and seven councilmembers; six members of the council shall be elected from single member districts, and one member shall be elected at large, city wide. The mayor shall also be elected at large, city wide.
State Law reference— The Georgia Municipal Election Code, O.C.G.A. § 21-1-1 et seq.
Section 2.3. - Terms of office.
The members of the council shall be elected to four-year staggered terms of office and shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
Section 2.4. - Qualifications.
(a)
To be eligible to hold office as a councilmember and serve as a councilmember, a person must be a resident of the district, have been a resident of the city for a period of six months, and be a registered and qualified voter of the city at the time of qualifying. If a district member of the council changes his or her residence to a district other than the district he or she represents or to a location outside the City of Valdosta, that council seat shall immediately be declared vacant by the city council, and the vacancy shall be filled as provided in this Charter.
(b)
In order to qualify for the office the person elected or appointed shall take and subscribe, in addition to the oath required by general law, the following oath:
"I do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor (or councilmember, as the case may be) of the City of Valdosta, to the best of my skill and ability, and as to me shall seem to the best interest and welfare of the city, without fear, favor or affection; so help me God."
Section 2.5. - Compensation.
Councilmembers shall receive as compensation for their services an amount fixed by the mayor and council as provided by law. The mayor and council shall establish a policy for reimbursement of the actual and necessary expenses incurred by its members in the performance of their official duties.
Section 2.6. - Legislative powers and procedures.
All legislative powers and procedures of the city are vested in the mayor and council.
CHAPTER 2. - MAYOR

Section 2.11. - Election and term of office.
The mayor shall be elected as provided in this Charter for a term of four years, and the mayor shall serve until a successor is elected and qualified.
Section 2.12. - Qualifications.
To be eligible for election or appointment and service as mayor, a person must be a minimum of 21 years of age, a resident of the city for one year prior to the date of qualifying, and a registered and qualified voter of the city at the time of qualifying for office.
Section 2.13. - Compensation.
The mayor and council shall fix the annual compensation of the mayor as provided by law and shall establish a policy for reimbursement of the actual and necessary expenses of the mayor incurred in the performance of the official duties of office.
Section 2.14. - Powers and duties.
The mayor shall be the official head of the city government and chief representative of the city, and it shall be the mayor's duty:
(1)
To preside at meetings of the mayor and council, where he or she shall have all the rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities of a councilmember, except that the mayor shall be entitled to vote on matters before the mayor and council only where there is an equal division on the question, and then the mayor shall determine the matter by his or her vote. The mayor shall also be entitled to vote on the election of the following officers and employees of the council, mayor pro tempore, city manager, city attorney, municipal judge, and city auditor;
(2)
As provided by law or by action of the mayor and council, to sign contracts on behalf of the city in the absence of the city manager;
(3)
To keep informed about the financial and other affairs of the city and from time to time to present information about the affairs of the city and to recommend such measures as deemed best for the city, including statements and reports to the citizens concerning the affairs of the city;
(4)
To serve as a member of boards, commissions, and committees required by law or by action of the mayor and council; and
(5)
To perform such other duties consistent with this Charter and as may be required by the council.
CHAPTER 3. - ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, OFFICERS

Section 2.21. - Organizational meeting; oath; election of mayor pro tempore.
The mayor and council shall meet for organization in the council chamber on the date and at the time of the first regular meeting following each regular municipal election or, if that date is a legal holiday, on the next following day not a legal holiday. At the organizational meeting, the mayor and each councilmember shall qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed in subsection (b) of Section 2.4. The oath shall be administered by a person authorized to administer oaths. The organization of the mayor and council shall take place notwithstanding the absence, death, refusal to serve, failure to qualify, or nonelection of one or more members, but at least a quorum of the members must be present. Following the induction of new members, the mayor and council by majority vote shall elect a councilmember to serve as mayor pro tempore, who shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and until a successor is elected.
Section 2.22. - Mayor pro tempore; duties.
The mayor pro tempore shall exercise all of the powers and discharge all of the duties of the mayor during the vacancy, absence, or disability of the mayor for any cause and until such vacancy has been regularly filled or until the return of the mayor or the removal of disability. In the event of the absence or disability of both the mayor and mayor pro tempore for any cause, the remaining councilmembers shall designate one of their number to preside over their meetings and to discharge the duties of mayor until either the return of the mayor or mayor pro tempore or the removal of the disability.
Section 2.23. - Quorum.
The mayor, or mayor pro tempore, and four members of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time to compel the attendance of absent members in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 2.24. - Meetings; regular and special.
The mayor and council shall fix a suitable time for its regular meetings and shall meet at least once each month for the transaction of business. If, in the discretion of the mayor, or mayor pro tempore, it is deemed necessary to have an extra meeting, the mayor, or mayor pro tempore, may call the mayor and council together immediately for the purpose of a special meeting. The mayor and council may adjourn its meetings to some definite time in the interim of regular monthly meetings.
Section 2.25. - City clerk; appointment, duties; deputy.
The city manager shall appoint a city clerk. The city clerk shall be responsible for keeping a journal of the proceedings of the mayor and council, shall be the custodian of all records and documents pertaining to actions of the mayor and council, and shall exercise those powers and duties required by law and the mayor and council. The city clerk shall attest all formal contracts executed on behalf of the city. The city manager may appoint a deputy city clerk.
Section 2.26. - City attorney; appointment, duties.
(a)
The mayor and council shall appoint a city attorney who shall be an attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in Georgia. The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council and shall receive such compensation as the mayor and council may determine.
(b)
The city attorney shall be the legal adviser to the city and shall perform such duties as required by law and by the mayor and council.
