Chapter 24 - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
ARTICLE I. - EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT

Sec. 24-1. - Creation of the department.
There is hereby created, as a department of the government of Screven County, Georgia, the Screven County Emergency Medical Services Department (herein, the "department"). The Screven County Manager shall employ a director of emergency medical services (herein, the "director") at a salary to be established by the board of commissioners who shall have such duties as may be provided herein and as may be delegated by the board through the county manager. The director shall, with the approval of the county manager, employ such personnel as may be required to carry out the functions of the department. The director and all employees of the Department shall be subject to the county personnel policy.
(Ord. of 2-12-2008)
Sec. 24-2. - Regulations adopted.
The current rules and regulations for ambulance services of the Georgia Department of Human Resources, Chapter 290-5-30, et. seq., and the current rules and regulations of the Composite State Board of Medical Examiners, are adopted as the regulations of the department. Additional regulations may be proposed by the director and adopted by the board of commissioners. At least one copy of such rules and regulations shall be kept on file in the office of the department. The department is also an extension of the medical license of the medical director of the department and shall be subject to his supervision, as may be required by law.
(Ord. of 2-12-2008)
Sec. 24-3. - Fees.
(a)
The department shall assess charges for the care, treatment, and transportation of any person transported by the department. Such charges shall be billed to and is payable by the patient served, the parent, custodian, guardian, conservator or estate of the patient.
(b)
Fees shall be adopted and amended from time to time by the board of commissioners. A copy of the fee schedule shall be maintained on file in the offices of the department and board of commissioners.
(Ord. of 2-12-2008)
Sec. 24-4. - Requirements for emergency medical service providers.
(a)
Requirements generally. All ambulances or other emergency service vehicles operated in the county shall:
(1)
Be certified and equipped for advanced life support by the Georgia Department of Community Health;
(2)
Have a permanent base station located with the county;
(3)
Have at least two qualified and certified persons on duty and available to answer calls for assistance, one of whom must be certified as a paramedic by the State of Georgia;
(4)
Be equipped for operation with the county's Automatic Vehicle Location System, with all codes and required information for inclusion in that program having been previously provided to the department prior to operation within the county;
(5)
Be equipped with communications equipment compatible with the current zoned providers system and the county's 911 dispatch (HEAR frequency not being an acceptable alternative); and
(6)
Must offer services compatible with those offered by the current zoned provider.
(b)
911 dispatch. All ambulances or other emergency service vehicles ("provider") responding to an emergency in the county shall be dispatched solely by the county's 911 dispatcher and all calls directly to the provider shall be referred to the county's 911 dispatcher. The provider must further notify the county's 911 dispatcher via radio when the unit is in and out of service in the county. The provider may not advertise or in any manner encourage the use of any telephone number other than 911 for emergency calls. Further, in order to share in the cost of dispatch through the local 911 dispatcher, the provider will pay a proportionate share of the costs of dispatching ambulances within the county. The board has determined that the dispatching of ambulance services is approximately ten percent of the total cost of operating the 911 system within the county. Accordingly, each provider operating within the county shall be billed its share of ten percent of the monthly operating budget of the 911 system, which share shall be determined by dividing the ten percent by the number of ambulance services approved for operation in the county, including the county's department. The provider will be billed monthly and shall remit payment within ten days of the date of the statement. Failure to remit on a timely basis shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(c)
Mutual aid agreement. Every provider of ambulance or emergency services in the county shall enter into a mutual aid agreement with the county which agreement shall be approved by the department head and county attorney.
(d)
Exempt services. The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this section:
(1)
Ambulance or emergency service vehicles operated by an agency of the United States, the State of Georgia or Screven County;
(2)
Vehicles operated by individuals who are not licensed to furnish emergency medical services and who are rendering temporary assistance in the event of an emergency situation, with the approval of the department; and
(3)
An ambulance service based in another county returning county residents to Screven County from any other county.
(e)
Indemnification. Any person or entity owning or operating a private business providing ambulance service within the county shall indemnify and hold the county harmless from any injury or damage caused to any individual, business or to the county as a result of the operation of such service within the county.
(f)
Penalty. Any owner, operator or other person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-11 of this Code.
(ord. of 2-15-11, ยง 2)
Sec. 24-5. - Business license for private ambulance service.
Business licenses shall not be issued to private ambulance services doing business in the county until the application for such license has been reviewed and approved by the director of the Screven County Emergency Medical Services Department and the county manager to ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. of 2-15-11, ยง 3)
