Chapter 38 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14; environment, ch. 26; manufactured homes, ch. 42; solid waste, ch. 62.
State Law reference— Authority to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TOBACCO USAGE IN COUNTY FACILITIES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 14.
State Law reference— Smoking in public places, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-2.

Sec. 38-31. - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke any tobacco product in any county-owned or county-occupied building including, but not limited to, the county courthouse, correctional institute, jail, road department, health department and EMS building.
(Ord. No. 95-02, § 1, 2-6-1995)
Sec. 38-32. - Penalty for violation of article.
Violations of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 95-02, § 2, 2-6-1995)
Secs. 38-33—38-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - PUBLIC NUISANCES

Sec. 38-61. - Enactment.
This article is adopted pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. Title 41, Chapters 1 and 2. In addition to, and where consistent with the state public nuisance statutes, this ordinance further defines and describes procedures for the abatement of public nuisances. (Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 1)
Sec. 38-62. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Closing means securing and causing a dwelling, building or structure to be vacated.
County means Screven County, Georgia.
Dwelling, building or structure means any building or structure or part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or commercial, industrial or business uses, or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith and also includes any building or structure of any design. The term "dwelling, building or structure" shall not mean or include any farm, any building or structure located on a farm, or any agricultural facility or other building or structure used for the production, growing, raising, harvesting, storage or processing of crops, livestock, poultry or other farm products.
Owner means the holder of the title in fee simple, and every mortgagee of record.
Parties in interest means persons in possession of property and all individuals, associations and corporations who have an interest of record in a dwelling, building or structure, including executors, administrators, guardians and trustees.
Public authority means any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of any department or branch of the government of the county or state relating to health, fire or building regulations or to other activities concerning dwellings, buildings or structures in the county.
Public nuisance, in addition to common law definitions, and to the extent consistent with the state statute, is further defined as any place, public or private, which because of the accumulation of filth, trash, garbage, junk or water tends to cause sickness and endangers the health of the public or any individual; any place which, because of filth, trash, garbage, junk or water, becomes unsightly or causes stench offensive to the public or any individual; any place which becomes unfit for human habitation or current commercial, industrial or business use because of an undue accumulation of weeds, junk, wrecked or junked motor vehicles, trash, filth and other unsafe or unsanitary conditions; any place which because of the nature of the business carried on there disturbs the peace and quietude of the public; or any place which because of the practices of those frequenting the place tends to corrupt the morals or is offensive to the natural sensibilities of an ordinary man. The term "nuisance," used in this ordinance shall mean "public nuisance."
Repair means closing a dwelling, building or structure or the cleaning or removal of debris, trash and other materials present and accumulated which create a health or safety hazard in or about any dwelling, building or structure.
Resident means any person residing in the county on or before the date on which the alleged nuisance arose.
Unfit for human habitation or current commercial, industrial or business use means a building, structure or location has one or more of the following (or similar) characteristics:
(1)
Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities.
(2)
Lack of adequate ventilation, light or other sanitary facilities.
(3)
Dilapidation.
(4)
Disrepair.
(5)
Structural defects and distress.
(6)
Uncleanness.
(7)
The effect on the health, safety and morals of the occupants of neighborhood dwellings, buildings or structures.
(8)
Any standard code adopted by the board of commissioners.
This list is noninclusive, and other factors, which impact the public health, safety and welfare, may be considered.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 2)
Sec. 38-63. - Maintenance of public nuisance prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, allow, permit, maintain or continue any public nuisance on any premises within the unincorporated areas of Screven County, Georgia.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 3)
Sec. 38-64. - Depositing rubbish on vacant lots.
Without limiting the generality of the definition herein above, it shall be unlawful for any person to create a public nuisance by throwing, sweeping or otherwise placing any straw, paper, tin cans, bottles or broken glass, decayed vegetables, fruits or any other rubbish on any vacant lot in the county.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 4)
Sec. 38-65. - Weeds and noxious vegetation.
Without limiting the generality of the definition herein above, it shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any lot, tract, parcel of land or premises within an R-1, R-2, NC, HC or GC zone, to permit to grow thereon weeds or noxious vegetation to an extent which might endanger the public health. If, after 15 days from service of written notice to such owner or the owner's duly authorized agent by an ordinance enforcement officer, the weeds or vegetable growth are not cut and removed, the county may make provision to cut and remove the weeds or growth and charge the expense of such removal to the owner.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 5)
Sec. 38-66. - Complaints of public nuisance.
The county health officer, a code enforcement officer, or any five persons acting in concert may file a signed, written complaint with the county manager or his designee, alleging the existence of a public nuisance. In addition, the board of commissioners, upon receipt of complaints of the existence of a public nuisance, or on its own motion, either at regular meetings, or at special meetings called for the purpose of receiving or considering such complaints, may refer the complaint to the county manager who shall reduce the complaint to writing, identifying any known witnesses to the existence or extent of the alleged nuisance. Reports or complaints shall include sufficient details so as to identify the nature of the nuisance and the place where within the county where such nuisance is alleged to exist.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 6; Ord. of 9-28-2004, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 38-67. - Investigation and report of complaints.
The county manager shall investigate the complaint, or cause the same to be done by competent personnel. After completion of the investigation, if a clear violation of the ordinance is found to exist, the county manager, or his designee at his direction, may either contact the offender in writing to notify the offender of the violation and offering the offender a reasonable period of time to abate the nuisance or, in the alternative, make a report of the violation to the magistrate court along with the issuance of a citation against the offender. If, after having been afforded an opportunity to do so, the offender fails to abate the nuisance within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the county manager, a report of the results of the investigation shall be made to the magistrate court in writing and a citation shall issue. The report shall contain references to potential hazards to the public health or safety; the conditions which are alleged to be offensive and to whom; the manner in which the condition or situation adversely affects the enjoyment of life and property; or to the specific conditions which could reasonably be expected to annoy the community, injure the health of the citizens in general, or corrupt the public morals. The report shall also contain recommendations as to proposed corrective action.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 7; Ord. of 7-27-2004(2), § 2)
Sec. 38-68. - Abatement by order of magistrate court.
(a)
Authority of court; imposition of lien. The magistrate court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine questions of the existence of nuisances within the county. The judge of magistrate court shall set the matter for hearing, cause the affected property owners to be served with notice, conduct the public hearing, and may receive such evidence as in his or her discretion establishes the truth of the matter. The judge may recess, continue or adjourn the hearing at his or her pleasure, issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses or seek the advice or opinions of experts. If a nuisance is found to exist, the court is authorized to order abatement, under O.C.G.A. § 41-2-5, and to implement the following procedures to deal with nuisances affecting properties within the county:
(1)
The owner of any property which has been declared by the court as a nuisance shall be given a reasonable amount of time to comply with any order to abate the nuisance.
(2)
If the owner of property which has been declared to constitute a nuisance fails to comply with the court's order, the court may authorize the county to take steps specified in a court order to repair, alter, improve, clear or demolish, or otherwise remedy the situation that causes the property to be a nuisance.
(3)
The amount of the cost of the repair, alteration, cleaning, removal or demolition authorized by the court and undertaken by the county shall be a lien against the property upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall attach to the real property upon the payment of all costs by the county and the filing of an itemized statement of the total sum of the costs by the county manager in the office of the Clerk of Superior Court on a lien docket maintained by the clerk for such purposes. If a dwelling, building, structure or property is removed or demolished by the county, it shall sell the materials of such dwelling and buildings or structures, and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the costs.
(b)
Enforcement of lien. The county shall enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien imposed as provided herein in the following manner:
(1)
The owner or parties at interest shall be allowed to satisfy the amount due on such lien by paying to the county, within 30 days after perfection of the lien, that is, filing on the lien docket, a sum of money equal to 25 percent of the total amount due and by further paying to the county the remaining balance due of such lien, together with interest at a rate of seven percent per annum, in three equal annual payments, each of which shall become due and payable on the anniversary date of the initial payment made as prescribed in this subsection.
(2)
Should the property upon which such lien is perfected be sold, transferred or conveyed by the owner or parties at interest at any time prior to the termination of the three-year period, then the entire balance due on such lien shall be due and payable to the county.
(3)
Should the amount due on such lien or any portion thereof be unpaid after the passage of the three-year period, or upon the occurrence of the contingency provided for in subsection (b)(2) of this section, the county may enforce the collection of any amount due on such lien in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358 and other applicable statutes relating to tax liens. This procedure shall be subject to the right of redemption by any person having any right, title or interest in or lien upon the property, as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-4-40 et. seq.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 8)
Sec. 38-69. - Service of complaints and orders.
Service of complaints, orders or other documents in connection with the implementation of this article shall be accomplished by:
(1)
Personal service upon the owner and occupant of the property which is the subject of the action, with a return of service signed by the officer making service; or, if personal service cannot be reasonably affected;
(2)
By first class mail, return receipt requested, directed to the address provided to the county by the owner for tax purposes (provided, that refusal of such mailed notice shall constitute notice); or, if service cannot be reasonably affected by personal service or by mail;
(3)
By publication once a week for two weeks in the newspaper designated by the state for publication of legal notices.
If either the owner or person in possession is a minor or a person laboring under legal disability, the guardian of that person shall be served as provided herein. If no guardian has been appointed, or if the appointment of a guardian cannot be ascertained, a guardian ad litem shall be appointed by the magistrate court and service shall be perfected upon such guardian.
If the whereabouts of an owner or party in interest is unknown and cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, upon such affidavit by the county manager or his or her designate, in rem service may be perfected by publication as provided herein as against any owner or party in interest for the realty which shall be sufficiently described in the notice as to put the public at large on notice of the proceedings.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 9)
Sec. 38-70. - Emergency abatement.
If upon receipt of a complaint as provided herein, the board of commissioners or the county manager believes an emergency exists in which the situation, condition or circumstances alleged to constitute a nuisance pose a serious, immediate threat to life, health or property, a request for an emergency abatement order shall be made to the judge of magistrate court. The judge of the magistrate court may, upon consideration of the request, issue an emergency abatement order which shall provide for the removal of the nuisance in the manner best calculated to end the immediate threat to life, health or property, without unduly interfering with the use by individuals of their private property. The judge shall also order a public hearing, as provided herein above, to consider all other issues and the necessity of additional action, including, but not limited to, an additional order of abatement of those conditions not considered to have constituted an immediate threat, and applicable assessments.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 10)
Sec. 38-71. - Violation of order; punishment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to abide by the strict terms of an order of abatement. Failure to abide by the strict terms of an abatement order shall be punishable as provided by a fine of not more than $1,000.00, incarceration for not more than 12 months, or both.
(Ord. of 5-13-2003, § 11)
Secs. 38-72—38-90. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - TOURIST COURTS AND TOURIST ACCOMMODATIONS

Sec. 38-91. - Enactment.
The provisions of Title 31, Chapter 28 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended (the "statute"), and the Regulations adopted by the Georgia Department of Human Resources pursuant to that statute (the "regulations"), as amended, are adopted herein and made a part of this Code by reference.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(1), § 2)
Sec. 38-92. - Enforcement.
For the limited purposes of enforcement of this article, the agent of the Screven County Board of Health charged with enforcing the statute and regulations is hereby designated a code enforcement officer and may, in addition to such other remedies as may be provided by the statute and the regulations, charge violations of the statute or regulations as violations of this Code to be disposed of in the manner provided for other violations of the Code.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(1), § 2)
Secs.38-93—38-129. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - FOOD SERVICES AND ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 38-130. - Enactment.
The provisions of Title 26, Chapter 2, Article 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as "The Georgia Food Act," as amended (the "statute"), and the Regulations adopted by the Georgia Department of Human Resources pursuant to that statute (the "regulations"), as amended, are adopted herein and made a part of this Code by reference.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(2), § 2)
Sec. 38-131. - Enforcement.
For the limited purposes of enforcement of this article, the agent of the Screven County Board of Health charged with enforcing the statute and regulations is hereby designated a code enforcement officer and may, in addition to such other remedies as may be provided by the statute and the regulations, charge violations of the statute or regulations as violations of this Code to be disposed of in the manner provided for other violations of the Code.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(2), § 2)
Secs. 38-132—38-149. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - ON-SITE SEWAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS

Sec. 38-150. - Enactment.
The provisions of Title 12, Chapter 8, Article 2 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, known as 'Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act,' as amended, and Section 31-2-7, adopting statewide regulations for on-site sewage systems (the "statutes"), and the regulations adopted by the Georgia Department of Human Resources pursuant to those statutes (the "regulations"), as amended, are adopted herein and made a part of this Code by reference.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(2), § 3)
Sec. 38-151. - Enforcement.
For the limited purposes of enforcement of this article, the agent of the Screven County Board of Health charged with enforcing the statute and regulations is hereby designated a code enforcement officer and may, in addition to such other remedies as may be provided by the statutes and the regulations, charge violations of the statute or regulations as violations of this Code to be disposed of in the manner provided for other violations of the Code.
(Ord. of 8-8-2006(2), § 3)
