Chapter 6 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Georgia Alcoholic Beverage Code, O.C.G.A. § 3-1-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 6-1—6-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - REGULATIONS FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 6-31. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine, or fortified wine.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasipublic.
Private club means any "bona fide club" as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-7-1, provided however that, for the purposes of this chapter, shall include private clubs which also operate a functioning golf course and which has a kitchen and dining room of sufficient size to serve its members and guests on an occasional basis.
Restaurant means any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are served and regularly served, such space being provided (in no event less than 1,000 square feet), with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity (adequate seating for no fewer than 50 persons) and having employed in such restaurant a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term "wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to this definition of wine.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 2, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 8-26-2003, § 2; Ord. of 2-14-2017, § 2)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 6-32. - Adoption of state law by reference.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the provisions of O.C.G.A. §§ 3-3-20 et seq., 3-3-40 et seq., establishing prohibited acts under the Georgia Alcoholic Beverages Code are adopted by reference and made the law of the county for the purpose of regulating the sale and use of beer and wine within the corporate limits of the county. In those circumstances where a provision of this section and a federal or state law are in conflict, the provisions of this section shall apply unless preempted.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 14, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-33. - Sales of alcoholic beverages generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or distribute any alcoholic beverage within the county other than malt beverages and wine.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 3, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-34. - Local prohibitions.
(a)
No licensee shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages on any day or during any time of day when such sales are prohibited by state law. Licensees authorized to sell malt beverages and wine shall not engage in such sales except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday and between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sundays. Licensees authorized to sell malt beverages and wine shall not permit their places of business to be open except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 12:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on Sundays, except that where the primary business of a malt beverage package licensee or wine package licensee is other than the sale of such beverages, such restrictive hours shall apply only with respect to the sale of malt beverages or wine.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity having a license to do business in the county, either pursuant to an ordinance of the county or by the laws of the state or federal government, to allow the consumption of alcoholic beverages by the public on the premises of that business, except as may be permitted in this article pursuant to a valid license issued as provided in this chapter for the sale and consumption on the premises of a restaurant.
(c)
No person knowingly and intentionally may sell or offer to sell any wine or malt beverages within 300 feet of any church building, which distance shall be measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground, determined in the following manner:
(1)
From the front door of the structure from which alcoholic beverage is sold or offered for sale;
(2)
In a straight line to the nearest public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway;
(3)
Along such public sidewalk, walkway, street, road or highway by the nearest route;
(4)
To the front door of the church building.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 15, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 1-9-2018, § 1)
Editor's note— At a referendum held on May 22, 2018, the voters approved an amendment to § 6-34 to allow Sunday package sales.
Sec. 6-35. - Farm wineries.
The establishment and operation of a farm winery, as defined and permitted in O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1, et. seq., is permitted in the county and, except where in conflict with state law, the provisions of this Code regarding regulation, licenses and fees shall apply, provided, however, that the license fee for a farm winery shall be the same as that established for a restaurant. Farm wineries operated in accordance with the provisions of applicable state law shall not be subject to the licensing standards set forth in section 6-63 of this chapter.
(Ord. of 7-24-2007)
Sec. 6-36. - Wholesale sales by farm wineries.
Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-6-40, the distributing and selling of wine by a farm winery (as defined in O.C.G.A. § 3-6-21.1) at wholesale is permitted in Screven County, provided, however, that each such entity shall first obtain a Wholesale distributor's License. The fee for such license shall be the same as for private and club sales as set out in Code section 6-66(b).
(Ord. of 2-10-2009, § 2)
Sec. 6-37. - Excise tax on wholesale wine sales.
There is levied upon each wholesale dealer selling wine at wholesale outside of the municipalities of the county an excise tax as follows: An excise tax on the first sale or use of wine by the package which tax shall be $0.22 per liter and a proportionate tax at the same rate on all fractional parts of a liter. The taxes imposed by this provision shall not be levied with respect to any sales of wine or beer which are exempt from taxation by federal or state law.
(Ord. of 2-10-2009, § 3)
Secs. 6-38—6-60. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 6-61. - Required for sale of beer and wine.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or distribute any malt beverage or wine within the county without having first obtained a license from the county for that purpose. Application may be made for license to sell malt beverages or wine by the package or in connection with the operation of a restaurant or private club, for the sale of such malt beverage or wine for consumption on the premises. The two licenses are separate and distinct and the acquisition of one shall not provide any benefit reserved by the county to the other.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 4, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 2-14-2017, § 3)
Sec. 6-62. - Applications, procedures and fees.
Persons desiring a license to sell or distribute malt beverages or wine either by the package or for consumption on the premises of a restaurant or private club shall make annual application for such license in writing on forms provided for that purpose by the county. Such application shall be signed, under oath, by the owner of the business, a principal officer of the entity operating the business if other than a natural person, or their designee, (e.g., the manager of the business). The application shall require, minimally, the following:
(1)
The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an individual, or in the case of a corporation, club and the like, the names, ages and addresses of persons entitled to share in the profits, the name of the corporation, the address of the registered office, the name and address of the registered agent, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and, if the majority interest is owned by one person, the name, address and percent of the outstanding stock in the possession of that person.
(2)
The nature and character of the business enterprise being operated by the applicant within which the license will be utilized.
(3)
The length of time the applicant has been in the business described.
(4)
The location and description of the premises or place of business in which the license will be utilized.
(5)
Identification of all other license applications for the sale of malt beverages or wine in any locale and the disposition of such application, if any.
(6)
A statement that no person is or will be involved in the business or its operation has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude and is not otherwise disqualified to hold a license to sell malt beverages or wine by federal or state law.
(7)
A statement that no previous license to sell malt beverages or wine granted to the applicant or any person who is or will be involved in the operation of the business has been withdrawn, revoked or suspended, or, in the alternative, a complete statement of the details of such withdrawal, revocation or suspension.
(8)
Fingerprinting of the applicant and all such other persons as the county manager, in his discretion, deem appropriate upon consideration of the application as a whole.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 5, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 1-27-2004, § 2; Ord. of 2-14-2017, § 4)
Sec. 6-63. - Licensing standards.
Licenses to sell malt beverages or wine within the county shall be issued annually only to those persons who, or to corporations, clubs and associations which, meet all of the following qualifications:
(1)
The individual applicant or at least one officer or major stockholder of a corporation, club or association must be a United States citizen.
(2)
No individual nor any officer, director or major stockholder of a corporation, club or association may have a record of conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
(3)
No individual nor any officer, director or major stockholder of a corporation, club or association may have a history of withdrawal, revocation or suspension of a license to sell alcoholic beverages by the county, any incorporated city within the county, the state, the United States of America, or any other state, or political subdivision thereof.
(4)
No proposed business location may include a game room.
(5)
Licenses for sales of packaged malt beverages and wine may be issued only to those businesses in which such sales shall not exceed 50 percent of the gross sales of that business. Each such business shall submit an affidavit under oath, at the end of each calendar year, attesting to the percentage of sales of malt beverages and wine as compared to the gross sales of the business, which shall be supported by appropriate business records. No business or beverage license shall be issued until this affidavit is filed with the county manager.
(6)
Licenses for sales of malt beverages and wine for consumption on the premises may be issued only to (a) Restaurants in which sales of such malt beverages and wine shall not exceed 50 per cent of the gross sales of the restaurant and (b) Private clubs as defined herein. Following the issuance of the initial license, each such business shall, during the month of January of each year following the issuance of the initial license, submit an affidavit, under oath, attesting to the percentage of sales of malt beverages and wine as compared to the gross sales of the business, which affidavit shall be supported by appropriate business records. No renewal business or beverage license shall be issued until this affidavit is filed with the county manager.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 6, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 8-26-2003, § 3; Ord. of 2-14-2017, § 5)
Sec. 6-64. - Procedure for consideration of applications.
(a)
The county manager shall immediately submit a complete set of the applicant's fingerprint record to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) for a search of its records for past criminal activity. Pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-2, the GBI shall present the fingerprint records to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for a similar search of its records.
(b)
Following submission of the application and fee and receipt of a response from the GBI and the FBI as to the search for prior criminal activity, the county manager shall issue the license if all requirements of this section are met.
(c)
A copy of the decision shall be mailed to the applicant at the address provided on the application as soon as practicable following the decision.
(d)
Any person aggrieved by the initial action of the county manager may petition the board of commissioners for a hearing which shall be set for the next regular meeting of the board at which time the board of commissioners may receive evidence both for and against granting the application, which evidence may be by authenticated document or sworn testimony. The board of commissioners shall reconsider the application upon the close of the evidence. The decision of the board of commissioners shall be in writing and, if the application is denied, shall state the reasons for denial.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 7, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-65. - Term.
Each license issued under this article shall terminate on January 31 following the issuance of such license.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 8, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-66. - Fees.
(a)
Package sales. The annual fee for a license to sell packaged malt beverages and wine shall be $1,000.00 per location.
(b)
Restaurant and private club sales. The annual fee for a license to sell malt beverages and wine by the drink in connection with the operation of a restaurant or a private club shall be $200.00 per location.
(c)
Disposal of fees. Fees shall be submitted with the annual application and shall be held in the county treasury until action has been taken on the application by the county manager or the board of commissioners. Fees shall be refunded only upon rejection of an application. Fees shall not be prorated for licenses issued upon applications filed prior to July 1 of the license year. The fee for licenses issued upon applications filed on or after July 1 of the license year shall be 50 percent of the full fee.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 9, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 8-26-2003, § 4; Ord. of 10-28-2008)
Sec. 6-67. - Transfer.
A license issued under this article is a purely personal privilege, good only for the year issued unless sooner revoked, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution. A license issued pursuant to this article shall not be alienable or transferable, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. A license issued under this article shall cease upon the death of the licensee, in the case of an individual, or the dissolution of the licensee, in the case of a corporation, club or association; provided, however, that the properly qualified executors and managers of the deceased, or the trustee, receiver or other court officer, in the case of individuals and corporations, clubs and associations, may continue the business and exercise the privilege of the license until the expiration thereof, subject to the orders of an appointing court.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 10, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-68. - Change of business location.
A license issued under this article shall permit the sale of malt beverages and wine only at the premises described in the application. A request for change of location during the year for which the license was issued must be made to the county manager in writing and must be approved by the county manager.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 11, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-69. - Records of applications; licenses.
The county manager shall keep a complete and accurate record of all applications and licenses issued and shall furnish the county sheriff with a copy of the record. Upon revocation or suspension of any license, the county manager shall immediately notify the sheriff in writing.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 12, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-70. - Business subject to inspection.
Businesses operating under a license issued pursuant to this article shall prominently display the license at all times and shall be subject to periodic, unscheduled inspection by officers and agents of the county. Restaurants and private clubs authorized to sell any malt beverage or wine for consumption on the premises are solely responsible for monitoring the consumption by patrons, members or customers and shall be specifically liable for violations of the provisions of Title 3 of the Code of Georgia Annotated, including, but not limited to Chapter 3, Article 2 of Title 3. Violations of the Georgia Code constitute violations of this article and, in addition to penalties imposed by state law, penalties imposed by this Code may also be imposed.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 13, 11-12-2002; Ord. of 2-14-2017, § 6)
Sec. 6-71. - Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Any person who has personal knowledge of a violation of any provision of this article shall make a written complaint of violation to the county, either to the county manager or the county sheriff's department. Upon receipt of a complaint of violation, the sheriff shall be notified and shall cause the complaint to be investigated. If the investigation reveals probable cause that a violation has occurred, the sheriff or his deputy shall immediately seize the license under which the individual suspect was operating and all sales of malt beverages and wine shall be suspended until the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners and a citation shall be issued charging the individual suspect with the violation. The individual shall be provided a copy of the citation.
(b)
One copy of the citation issued as provided in subsection (a) of this section shall be forwarded to the county manager who shall place the matter of suspension or revocation of the license under which the individual suspect was operating on the agenda for the next regular meeting of the board of commissioners.
(c)
Violation of any provision of this article, or any federal or state law, or any ordinance of an incorporated city within the county, regulating or controlling the sale or use of alcoholic beverages, shall result in suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this article as follows:
(1)
The first violation shall result in a suspension of the license for a period of not more than six months which period shall be deemed to have begun on the day the license was seized and sales ceased.
(2)
The second violation within five years shall result in a suspension of the license for a period of not less than one year from the date of the decision by the board of commissioners.
(3)
The third violation within five years shall result in revocation of the license.
(d)
At the hearing on the citation, the board of commissioners may receive evidence with regard to the alleged violation, which evidence may be by authenticated document or sworn testimony. The board of commissioners shall consider the matter of suspension upon the close of the evidence. The decision of the board of commissioners shall be in writing and a copy provided to the licensee.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 16, 11-12-2002)
Sec. 6-72. - Criminal penalties.
(a)
A copy of the citation issued as provided in section 6-71 shall also be forwarded to the municipal court for disposition of charges of violation of the criminal provisions of this article.
(b)
Any person violating any provision of this article, in addition to suspension or revocation, shall be subject to criminal penalties as provided in section 1-11.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, § 17, 11-12-2002)
