ARTICLE III. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1987 Ga. Laws, page 4470, which creates the Emanuel County Board of Elections. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - [Definitions; creation.]
(a)
For purposes of this Act, the term:
(1)
"Board" means the board of elections created by subsection (b) of this section.
(2)
"County" means Emanuel County.
(3)
"Superior court" means the Superior Court of Emanuel County.
(b)
Pursuant to the authority of Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A., there is created a board of elections for Emanuel County which shall have jurisdiction over the conduct of primaries and elections in such county.
Sec. 2. - [Composition.]
The board of elections shall be composed of four members, each of whom shall be an elector and resident of the county and who shall be appointed as provided in this section. One member of the board of elections shall be appointed by the political party which received the highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for Governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member, and one member of the board of elections shall be appointed by the political party which received the second highest number of votes within the county for its candidate for Governor in the general election immediately preceding the appointment of the member. Each of the two appointments by political parties shall be made as follows: the member shall be nominated by the chairman and ratified by the county executive committee of each of the above-designated political parties at least 30 days before the beginning of the term of office or within 30 days after the creation of a vacancy in the office. The remaining two members of the board shall be selected by the county governing authority. In making the initial appointments to the board, the members shall be selected within 30 days following the effective date of this Act, except that the fourth member added to the board by the 1988 amendment to this section shall be appointed no later than July 1, 1988. Initial members of the board shall serve until December 31, 1988, and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be appointed for terms of four years and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The governing Authority of the county shall designate one of the two members selected by it to be the chairman of the board.
(1988 Ga. Laws, page 3846, § 1)
Sec. 3. - [Elective public office.]
No person who holds elective public office shall be eligible to serve as a member during the term of such elective office, and the position of any member shall be deemed vacant upon such member qualifying as a candidate for elective public office.
Sec. 4. - [Certification of members.]
Certification of the appointment of each member shall be made by the governing authority of the county filing an affidavit with the clerk of the superior court no later than 15 days preceding the date at which such member is to take office, stating the name and residential address of the person appointed and certifying that such member has been duly appointed as provided in this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall record each of such certifications on the minutes of the court and shall certify the name of each such appointed member to the Secretary of State and provide for the issuance of appropriate commissions to the members within the same time and in the same manner as provided by law for registrars.
Sec. 5. - [Succession, resignation, removal of members.]
Each member of the board shall be eligible to succeed himself, shall have the right to resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the appointing body and to the clerk of the superior court, and shall be subject to removal from the board by the appointing body at any time, for cause after notice and hearing, in the same manner and by the same authority as provided for removal of registrars.
Sec. 6. - [Vacancies.]
In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of any appointed member before the expiration of his term, by removal, death, resignation, or otherwise, the original appointing body shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of the unexpired term as provided for in Section 2 of this Act. The clerk of the superior court shall be notified of interim appointments and record and certify such appointments in the same manner as the regular appointment of members.
Sec. 7. - [Oath.]
Before entering upon his duties, each member shall take substantially the same oath as required by law for registrars and shall have the same privileges from arrest.
Sec. 8. - [Duties.]
The board of elections shall:
(1)
With regard to the preparation for, conduct, and administration of elections, succeed to and exercise all duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court pursuant to Title 21 of the O.C.G.A. or any other provision of law;
(2)
With regard to preparation for and conduct of primaries, succeed to all the duties and powers granted to and incumbent upon the judge of the probate court by Title 21 of the O.C.G.A.; and
(3)
Formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the state executive committee of each political party, governing the conduct of primaries to the end that, insofar as practicable, all primaries shall be uniformly conducted by the board of elections, poll workers shall be properly trained, and voters shall be adequately informed and instructed. Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee under the provisions of Code Section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A. shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board of elections.
Sec. 9. - [Poll workers.]
The board shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in primaries and elections and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
Sec. 10. - [Succession to chairman.]
Thirty days after the effective date of this Act, the judge of the probate court shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairman of the board, upon the chairman's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
Sec. 11. - [Duties of chairman.]
The chairman of the board of elections shall be the chief executive officer of the board of elections and shall generally supervise, direct, and control the administration of the affairs of the board of elections pursuant to law and duly adopted resolutions of the board of elections. The board of elections shall fix and establish by appropriate resolution entered on its minutes directives governing the execution of matters within its jurisdiction.
Sec. 12. - [Compensation.]
Compensation for the members of the board of elections, clerical assistants, and other employees shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority of the county. Said compensation shall be paid wholly from county funds.
Sec. 13. - [Equipment; personnel.]
The governing authority of the county shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices, equipment, materials, and supplies and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 14. - [Definitions.]
The words "election," "elector," "political party," "primary," "public office," "special election," and "special primary" shall have the same meaning ascribed to those words by Code Section 21-2-2 of the O.C.G.A., unless otherwise clearly apparent from the text of this Act.
