ARTICLE IV. - DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[5]
Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Printed in division 1 of this article is 1962 Ga. Laws, page 758, which provides for a constitutional amendment creating the Emanuel County Development Authority. This amendment was continued in force and effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4741. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 1. - [Amendments.]
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution, relating to the taxing power and restriction of contributions of counties, cities and political divisions, is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Emanuel County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by Emanuel County. The County of Emanuel may contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution of Georgia.
Emanuel County is authorized to levy a tax on all the taxable property therein not to exceed one mill for the purpose of securing a fund to be set aside and used by said Authority for the general purposes hereinafter prescribed.
The members of the Authority, their qualifications; terms, and methods of election or appointment shall be prescribed by law by the General Assembly. The Authority shall have such duties, powers, and authority as shall be prescribed by law and the General Assembly may pass all other necessary legislation for the implementation of this amendment.
All lands and improvements thereon, the title to which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures and revenue bonds issued by the Authority, shall be exempt from State and local taxation.
Said Authority is created for the purpose of developing, promoting, and expanding, for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long-range plans for coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits. The Authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt against the State of Georgia or the County of Emanuel. The Authority is created for non-profit purposes and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created.
DIVISION 2. - ESTABLISHED[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1965 Ga. Laws, page 2770, which establishes the Emanuel County Development Authority pursuant to 1962 Ga. Laws, page 758. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Sec. 1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known as and may be cited as the "Emanuel County Development Authority Act."
Sec. 2. - Definitions.
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(1)
The word "Authority" shall mean the "Emanuel County Development Authority," created herein.
(2)
The words "Governing Authority of Emanuel County" shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Roads and Revenues of Emanuel County, their successors or such other Authority that may be hereafter provided for the administering of the affairs of Emanuel County.
(3)
The words "undertaking," "project," "undertaking or project" or "undertaking and project" shall be deemed to mean and include property, real and/or personal, acquired or held by the Authority for the assistance, promotion, establishment or development of a new industry or industries, or the assistance, promotion or expansion of existing industry, trade or commerce in Emanuel County, or any combination thereof; the acquisition of any such property for any such purpose or purposes; the improvement of any such property or properties; and/or the construction, installation and/or expansion of one or more buildings, plants, and/or articles of equipment for the purpose of using, selling, donating, leasing and/or renting such land, properties, improvements, structures or equipment to public or private persons, firms, corporations, and/or associations for such purposes.
(4)
The term "cost of project" shall embrace: the cost of lands, buildings, improvements, machinery, equipment, properties, easements, rights, franchises, materials, labor and services acquired and/or contracted for; the cost of financing charges and/or of interest prior to and during construction; architectural, accounting, engineering, inspection, fiscal and/or legal expenses; cost of plans and/or specifications; and/or any other expenses necessary or incident to construction and/or improvements, and/or to determine the feasibility and/or practicability of the project, administrative expenses and/or the acquisition, construction, equipping and/or operating any project or any part thereof.
Sec. 3. - Created.
Pursuant to an amendment to Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution found in Ga. Laws 1962, page 758, there is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Emanuel County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, its scope and jurisdiction to be limited to the territory embraced by the County of Emanuel.
Sec. 4. - [Appointment of members; terms; reappointment; oath; quorum.]
(a)
The Authority shall consist of five members appointed by the governing authority of Emanuel County. Those members of the Authority as such serving in those offices on January 1, 1993, and any person appointed to fill a vacancy in any such office, shall serve for terms which expire upon the date in 1993 upon which this section becomes effective and upon the appointment and qualification of their respective successors. Those successors shall be appointed for terms which begin upon the date in 1993 upon which this section becomes effective. Two of those successors shall be appointed for initial terms of office which expire June 30, 1994, two of those successors shall be appointed for initial terms of office which expire June 30, 1996, and one of those successors shall be appointed for an initial term of office which expires June 30, 1998. After the expiration of these initial terms, the terms of office of all members shall be staggered terms of six years. If at the end of any term of any member a successor to such member has not been appointed, the member whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until that person's successor is appointed.
(b)
All members who have served on said Authority shall be eligible for reappointment to succeed themselves if they are reappointed by said governing Authority designated by this Act to appoint them. Members of the Authority shall be citizens of the United States who have attained the age of twenty-one (21) years, and who shall have been citizens of this State for two (2) years, and for one year a resident of Emanuel County immediately preceding his appointment as a member of the authority. Should any member resign, be unable to serve or move beyond the territorial limits of Emanuel County as it is now situated or may be hereafter situated, or should there be a vacancy for any reason, the successor shall be appointed to serve the remaining term of such member by the Governing Authority of Emanuel County. Prior to taking office the members shall subscribe to the following oath, to wit: "I do solemnly swear that I will fully and fairly perform the duties as a member of the Emanuel County Development Authority, So Help Me God." The members of said Authority shall be entitled to no compensation. Any three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business of the Authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than three affirmative votes. No vacancy shall impair the power of Authority to act.
(1993 Ga. Laws, page 4324, § 1)
Sec. 5. - Intent.
The Authority is created by this Act for the purposes of developing, promoting and expanding for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within its territorial limits.
Sec. 6. - Bonds.
In addition to the purposes for which revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by counties, municipal corporations and political subdivisions as provided in said Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph V of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Emanuel County Development Authority, herein created, be and is hereby authorized to issue revenue obligations to provide funds to be used by said Authority in developing, promoting and expanding for the public good and general welfare, industry, agriculture, commerce, natural resources, and vocational training and for the making of long-range plans for the coordination of such development, promotion and expansion within the territorial limits of Emanuel County, as herein provided. Said purposes are hereby found, determined and declared to be for the benefit of the citizens and residents of said County and to be an essential governmental function in providing vocational education, relieving unemployment, improving the economy, limiting poor relief assistance, developing natural resources and otherwise promoting the general welfare.
Sec. 7. - Purpose.
The Authority shall not be operated for profit, is an institution of purely public charity, and is an industrial development agency qualified to receive loans and other assistance from the Industrial Development Commission of the State of Georgia, or other governmental agencies.
Sec. 8. - Powers.
In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the Authority shall be deemed to be engaging in such functions of government, activities and transactions as the County of Emanuel is by law authorized to undertake.
Sec. 9. - Contracts.
Emanuel County, by and through its Governing Authority, shall be and is hereby authorized and empowered to contract with the Authority as a public corporation as provided by the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
Sec. 10. - Taxes.
Emanuel County, by and through its Governing Authority, is authorized and empowered to levy a tax on all taxable property therein not to exceed one (1) mill for the purpose of securing a fund to be set aside, transferred to and used by said Authority for the general purpose of the Authority as herein prescribed.
Sec. 11. - Powers.
The powers of the Authority herein created shall include, but are not limited to, the power, for its corporate purposes.
(1)
To have a corporate seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(2)
To contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead or be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, to contract with the State of Georgia and any instrumentality thereof, any county or municipality thereof, and any other political subdivisions, and with private persons, firms, corporations, and associations.
(3)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trust.
(4)
To buy, acquire, receive as gifts, own, improve, expand, develop, operate, maintain, sell, donate, lease as lessor or lessee, mortgage, pledge, convey to secure debt, and/or otherwise encumber and/or dispose of land, buildings, equipment, furnishings, and/or property of all kinds, real and/or personal, within Emanuel County, Georgia, and to make a contract or contracts and/or to execute any instrument or document for the accomplishment thereof, or other purposes.
(5)
To make contracts, and to execute any and all instruments necessary or convenient to, or in aid of, the accomplishment of any of the purposes of said Authority, and/or the exercise of any power or powers of said Authority.
(6)
To enter into any contract or contracts for any period of time not exceeding thirty (30) years.
(7)
To appoint and select officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(8)
To construct, erect, buy, receive as a gift, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, equip, furnish, extend, expand, develop, improve, donate, sell, lease as lessor or lessee, equip, add to, operate and manage projects and to pay the costs of any such project from any income of the Authority, from the proceeds of revenue bonds issued and sold by the Authority or others, from any taxes levied for the purpose by the State of Georgia, Emanuel County, or any of the municipalities therein, or from any contributions or loans by political subdivisions or instrumentalities, persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the Authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(9)
To elect its own officers from the membership of the Authority; to elect and employ an executive director who is not required to be a member of the Authority; and to authorize and empower such officers to act for the Authority generally or in any specific matter.
(10)
To borrow money and to execute debentures, bonds, notes, mortgages, deeds or bills of sale to secure debt, trust deeds and/or other such instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(11)
To issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose of raising funds for the payment, in whole or in part, of the cost of any project of the Authority; to secure the payment of the obligations of such bonds by, but not limited to, selling, conveying, mortgaging, pledging and/or assigning any or all of its funds, income and/or property; and to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges, and to be subject to all the duties and liabilities, which a municipality may exercise and/or be subject to under the provisions of the "Revenue Bond Law" [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.], as the same is now, or may hereafter be amended. The rights, powers and privileges of the Authority are not limited to those of such a municipality, however.
(12)
To receive and use public funds made available to it, the rents, profits and proceeds from the projects erected, leased or sold, and other funds and income of the Authority, to provide for the operation and maintenance of such projects or other projects, to discharge the principal, interest and expenses of bonds, revenue bonds, and notes issued by the Authority, to pay other debts of the Authority, and to further and promote the objectives of the Authority.
(13)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public corporations or authorities performing similar functions.
(14)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested.
(15)
To adopt, alter, amend and/or repeal its own bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the powers granted to it may be enjoyed, as the Authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(16)
To do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act upon the Authority.
Sec. 12. - [Revenue bonds.]
The acquisition, construction, improvement, betterment, expansion, or extension of any undertaking or project of the Authority, and the issuance in anticipation of the collection of revenues of such undertaking or project, of bonds to provide funds to pay the whole or a part of the cost thereof may be authorized by resolution or resolutions of the Authority which may be adopted at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members of the Authority. Unless otherwise provided therein, such resolution or resolutions shall take effect immediately and need not be laid over or published or posted. The Authority in determining the cost of any undertaking or project for which revenue bonds are to be issued may include all costs as hereinbefore defined. Such bonds shall bear such date or dates, mature at such time or times, not exceeding 30 years from their respective dates, bear interest at such rate or rates as established by the Authority, and may be in such denominations and may carry such registration privileges and be subject to redemption and may contain such terms, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution or resolutions authorizing the issuance of such bonds may provide. Except as herein provided to the contrary, such bonds shall be issued and validated in the Superior Court of Emanuel County, Georgia, in the same manner as revenue bonds of municipalities are issued and validated under the Revenue Bond Law [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] as the same is now or may hereafter be amended. In the proceedings to validate such bonds, the County of Emanuel and the Emanuel County Development Authority shall be named as party defendant. In the event no bill of exceptions is filed within the time prescribed by law, or if filed, the judgment validating the bonds shall be affirmed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, such judgment shall be forever conclusive as to the validity of such bonds and the security therefor against said Authority.
(1982 Ga. Laws, page 4861, § 1)
Sec. 13. - [Tax exemption.]
All property, real and personal, the title of which is vested in the Authority, and all debentures, notes, bonds and revenue bonds and certificates issued by the Authority, and interest thereon and income therefrom, shall be exempt from state, county, city and other local taxation for any purpose. All such property shall be exempt from any and all federal taxation, if and when so provided by the Constitution laws, rules, regulations and mandates of the United States or any of its various bureaus, agencies or other entity by whatever name called.
(1989 Ga. Laws, page 3510, § 1)
Sec. 14. - [Employee bonding.]
It shall be the duty of the Authority to have all persons handling funds of the Authority fully and adequately bonded for their faithful accounting for such bonds.
Sec. 15. - [Exemption from debt.]
The Authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligations, against the State of Georgia, Emanuel County, or any municipality therein. No debt, liability or obligation of the Authority shall be considered a pledge or loan of the credit of the State of Georgia, or any county, city or other subdivision thereof.
Sec. 16. - Property.
If the Authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall be in the County of Emanuel and/or any incorporated city or town in said county, the Governing Authorities of the County of Emanuel and of said municipalities, respectively, are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, without cost, to the Authority. Said county and/or said municipalities may donate to said Authority, real estate, personal property and services for any such property. Any such land, improvements, or personal property so conveyed or donated to the Authority may be mortgaged, conveyed, or pledged to secure obligations of the Authority.
Sec. 17. - Purpose, etc.
The Authority is created for non-profit purposes and all property acquired by the Authority and any funds realized by the Authority shall be used continually and exclusively for the purposes for which the Authority is created, unless the Authority for any reason is dissolved. Then in that event, the funds and property of the Authority shall be conveyed as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 18. - Title to property.
Should said Authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the Authority at the time of such dissolution, shall be conveyed to Emanuel County subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property. No private interest shall exist in the property of the Authority. The Authority shall hold title only for the benefit of the public.
Sec. 19. - Audits.
The books and records of the Authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the Authority, by a competent independent auditor; and the minutes and records of the same shall be filed with the clerk of the Board of Commissioners of roads and revenues of said county, and shall be available for public inspection.
Sec. 20. - Powers.
The Authority shall exist and have all of said powers, and the right to exercise the same for its corporate purposes, regardless of whether or not it shall issue revenue anticipation obligations hereunder.
