Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Supplemental powers of municipalities and counties enumerated, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III; municipal corporations, generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-3-1 et seq.; powers of municipal corporations, generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq.; powers relating to administration of municipal government, generally, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; provisions applicable to counties and municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-1 et seq.; provisions applicable to counties and municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-80-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - Prohibition on tobacco products in the city hall or any city building.
No smoking of tobacco or use of any tobacco products shall be allowed by any person in the city hall or in any building owned by the city.
(Ord. of 5-5-2003)
Secs. 2-2—2-20. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES

Sec. 2-21. - Appointment of assistant city clerk and the duties thereof.
The city council may appoint a person to assist the city clerk in keeping and maintaining the journal of proceedings of the city council, all other records, including those records kept and maintained for the water department, voting records, files and documents of the city. The assistant city clerk may perform such other duties as the council requires. Said language contained in the city Charter is herein incorporated by reference. It is hereby ordained that the said assistant city clerk may assume the functions of the city clerk in recording and keeping records of all proceedings at regular or special council meetings of said council as a ministerial function. Said assistant city clerk shall also maintain and keep all other records, including the records kept and maintained for the water department, voting records, files and documents of the city. The assistant city clerk shall also be empowered to sign and affix the city seal to any documents, records or files necessary to conduct the business of said city.
(Ord. of 9-14-1987)
