PART I - CHARTER[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is the city's Charter, being 1995 Ga. Laws (Act No. 436), page 4462. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings and catchlines has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

ARTICLE I. - INCORPORATION AND POWERS

Sec. 1.10. - Name.
This city and the inhabitants thereof, are reincorporated by the enactment of this Charter and are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate under the name and style City of Tybee Island, Georgia, and by that name shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.11. - Corporate Boundaries.
(a)
The boundaries of this city shall be those existing on the effective date of the adoption of this charter with such alterations as may be made from time to time in the manner provided by law. The boundaries of this city at all times shall be shown on a map, a written description, or any combination thereof, to be retained permanently in the office of the clerk of council and to be designated, as the case may be: "Official Map (or Description) of the corporate limits of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia." Photographic, typed, or other copies of such maps or descriptions certified by the clerk of council shall be admitted as evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect as with the original map or description.
(b)
The city council may provide for the redrawing of any such map by ordinance to reflect lawful changes in the corporate boundaries. A redrawn map shall supersede for all purposes the entire map or maps which it is designated to replace.
Sec. 1.12. - Powers and Construction.
(a)
This city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the present or future constitution and laws of this state as fully and completely as though they were specifically enumerated in this charter. This city shall have all the powers of self-government not otherwise prohibited by this charter or by general law.
(b)
The powers of this city shall be construed liberally in favor of the city. The specific mention or failure to mention particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the powers of this city.
Sec. 1.13. - Examples of Powers.
The city is authorized:
(1)
Animal regulations. To regulate and license or to prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowl, and to provide for the impoundment of same if in violation of any ordinance or lawful order; to provide for the disposition by sale, gift, or humane destruction of animals and fowl when not redeemed as provided by ordinance; and to provide punishment for violation of ordinances enacted pursuant to this paragraph;
(2)
Appropriations and expenditures. To make appropriations for the support of the government of the city; to authorize the expenditure of money for any purposes authorized by this charter and for any purpose for which a municipality is authorized by the laws of the State of Georgia; and to provide for the payment of expenses of the city;
(3)
Building regulation. To regulate and to license the erection and construction of buildings and all other structures; to adopt building, housing, plumbing, electrical, gas, and heating and air conditioning codes; and to regulate all housing and building trades;
(4)
Business regulation and taxation. To levy and to provide for the collection of regulatory fees and taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions as authorized by Title 48 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 48-1-1 et seq.], or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted; to permit and regulate the same; to provide for the manner and method of payment of such regulatory fees and taxes; and to revoke such permits after due process for failure to pay any city taxes or fees;
(5)
Condemnation. To condemn property, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city, for present or future use and for any corporate purpose deemed necessary by the governing authority, utilizing procedures enumerated in Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(6)
Contracts. To enter into contracts and agreements with other governmental entities and with private persons, firms, and corporations;
(7)
Emergencies. To establish procedures for determining and proclaiming that an emergency situation exists within or outside the city, and to make and carry out all reasonable provisions deemed necessary to deal with or meet such an emergency for the protection, safety, health, or well-being of the citizens of the city;
(8)
Environmental protection. To protect and preserve the natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the state through the preservation and improvement of air quality, the restoration and maintenance of water resources, the control of erosion and sedimentation, the management of solid and hazardous waste, and other necessary actions for the protection of the environment;
(9)
Fire regulations. To fix and establish fire limits and from time to time to extend, enlarge, or restrict the same; to prescribe fire safety regulations, not inconsistent with general law, relating to both fire prevention and detection and to fire fighting; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(10)
Garbage fee. To levy, fix, assess, and collect a garbage, refuse, trash collection and disposal, and other sanitary service charge, tax, or fee for such services as may be necessary in the operation of the city from all individuals, firms, and corporations residing in or doing business therein benefiting from such services; to enforce the payment of such charges, taxes, or fees; and to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges;
(11)
General health, safety, and welfare. To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property which is detrimental to health, sanitation, cleanliness, welfare, and safety of the inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(12)
Gifts. To accept or refuse gifts, donations, bequests, or grants from any source for any purpose related to powers and duties of the city and the general welfare of its citizens, on such terms and conditions as the donor or grantor may impose;
(13)
Health and sanitation. To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards;
(14)
Jail sentences. To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city's court may work out such sentences in any public works or on the streets, roads, drains, and other public property in the city; to provide for commitment of such persons to any jail; or to provide for commitment of such persons to any county work camp or county jail by agreement with the appropriate county officials;
(15)
Motor vehicles. To regulate the operation of motor vehicles and exercise control over all traffic, including parking upon or across the streets, roads, alleys, and walkways of the city;
(16)
Municipal agencies and delegation of power. To create, alter, or abolish departments, boards, offices, commissions, and agencies of the city; and to confer upon such agencies the necessary and appropriate authority for carrying out all the powers conferred upon or delegated to the same;
(17)
Municipal debts. To appropriate and borrow money for the payment of debts of the city and to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized by this charter or the laws of the State of Georgia;
(18)
Municipal property ownership. To acquire, dispose of, lease, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal, or mixed property, in fee simple or lesser interest, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city;
(19)
Municipal property protection. To provide for the preservation and protection of property and equipment of the city and the administration and use of same by the public; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violations thereof;
(20)
Municipal utilities. To acquire, lease, construct, operate, maintain, sell, and dispose of public utilities, including but not limited to a system of waterworks, sewers and drains, sewage disposal, gas works, electric light plants, cable television and other telecommunications, transportation facilities, public airports, and any other public utility; and to fix the taxes, charges, rates, fares, fees, assessments, regulations, and penalties, and to provide for the withdrawal of service for refusal to pay the same;
(21)
Nuisance. To define a nuisance and provide for its abatement whether on public or private property;
(22)
Penalties. To provide penalties for violation of any ordinances adopted pursuant to the authority of this charter and the laws of the State of Georgia;
(23)
Planning and zoning. To provide comprehensive city planning for development by zoning; and to provide subdivision regulation and the like as the city council deems necessary and reasonable to insure a safe, healthy, and aesthetically pleasing community;
(24)
Police and fire protection. To exercise the power of arrest through duly appointed policemen, and to establish, operate, or contract for a police and fire fighting agency;
(25)
Public hazards: removal. To provide for the destruction and removal of any building or other structure which is or may become dangerous or detrimental to the public;
(26)
Public improvements. To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation, and maintenance of public ways, parks and playgrounds, recreational facilities, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, public housing, airports, hospitals, terminals, docks, parking facilities, or charitable, cultural, educational, recreational, conservation, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities; and to provide any other public improvements, inside or outside the corporate limits of the city; to regulate the use of public improvements; and for such purposes, property may be acquired by condemnation under Title 22 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 22-1-1 et seq.], or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted;
(27)
Public peace. To provide for the prevention and punishment of drunkenness, riots, and public disturbances;
(28)
Public transportation. To organize and operate such public transportation systems as are deemed beneficial;
(29)
Public utilities and services. To grant franchises, make contracts for, or impose taxes on public utilities and public service companies; and to prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor, insofar as not in conflict with valid regulations of the Public Service Commission;
(30)
Regulation of roadside areas. To prohibit or regulate and control the erection, removal, and maintenance of signs, billboards, trees, shrubs, fences, buildings, and any and all other structures or obstructions upon or adjacent to the rights-of-way of streets and roads or within view thereof, within or abutting the corporate limits of the city; and to prescribe penalties and punishment for violation of such ordinances;
(31)
Retirement. To provide and maintain a retirement or pension plan for officers and employees of the city;
(32)
Roadways. To lay out, open, extend, widen, narrow, establish or change the grade of, abandon or close, construct, pave, curb, gutter, adorn with shade trees, or otherwise improve, maintain, repair, clean, prevent erosion of, and light the roads, alleys, and walkways within the corporate limits of the city; and to grant franchises and rights-of-way throughout the streets and roads and over the bridges and viaducts for the use of public utilities; and to require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands, and to impose penalties for failure to do so;
(33)
Sewer fees. To levy a fee, charge, or sewer tax as necessary to assure the acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, maintaining, and extending of a sewage disposal plant and sewerage system, and to levy on those to whom sewers and sewerage systems are made available a sewer service fee, charge, or sewer tax for the availability or use of the sewers; to provide for the manner and method of collecting such service charges and for enforcing payment of the same; and to charge, impose, and collect a sewer connection fee or fees to those connected with the system;
(34)
Solid waste disposal. To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, and refuse by others; and to provide for the separate collection of glass, tin, aluminum, cardboard, paper, and other recyclable materials; and to provide for the sale of such items;
(35)
Special areas of public regulation. To regulate or prohibit junk dealers, pawn shops, the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors, and the use and sale of firearms; to regulate the transportation, storage, and use of combustible, explosive, and inflammable materials, the use of lighting and heating equipment, and any other business or situation which may be dangerous to persons or property; to regulate and control the conduct of peddlers and itinerant traders, theatrical performances, exhibitions, and shows of any kind, by taxation or otherwise; and to license, tax, regulate, or prohibit professional fortunetelling, palmistry, adult bookstores, and massage parlors;
(36)
Special assessments. To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments to cover the costs for any public improvements;
(37)
Taxes: ad valorem. To levy and provide for the assessment, valuation, revaluation, and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation;
(38)
Taxes: other. To levy and collect such other taxes as may be allowed now or in the future by law;
(39)
Taxicabs. To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in the amounts to be prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate the parking of such vehicles;
(40)
Urban redevelopment. To organize and operate an urban redevelopment program;
(41)
Lifeguards. To enact appropriate ordinances to require hotels, motels, bathhouse proprietors, rooming houses, and other like or similar commercial establishments within the city which cater to the public to furnish lifeguards for the bathing beaches or swimming pools, or both, so as to provide safety and protection to bathers;
(42)
Beach protection. To provide for the maintenance and repair of the seawall and groins, as well as the prevention and control of beach and sand dune erosion through the utilization of either city, county, state, or federal funds; and the council shall continue to have the authority to deed, transfer, and quitclaim by resolution all of the right, title, and interest of the city in and to that portion of the beach formerly known as the "strand" which abuts the property of such property owner eastwardly to within 18 feet of the seawall, provided that the city and the said property owner shall not utilize the 18 foot area abutting on the seawall and the land so deeded except for the purposes of repair, maintenance, prevention, and control of the seawall, groins, beaches, and sand dunes;
(43)
Other powers. To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, or general welfare of the city and its inhabitants; and to exercise all implied powers necessary or desirable to carry into execution all powers granted in this charter as fully and completely as if such powers were fully stated in this charter; and to exercise all powers now or in the future authorized to be exercised by other municipal governments under other laws of the State of Georgia; and no listing of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to municipalities under the constitution or applicable laws of the State of Georgia; and
(44)
Property rights. To grant easements and rights-of-way, sell, transfer, lease, and otherwise dispose of property rights over public streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, and other properties of the city on such terms and conditions and for such lengths of time as the council of the city may deem proper, provided that such transfers may not be granted without the written consent of the owners on either side of the streets, lanes, alleys, and sidewalks; provided, further, that such transfers may not be granted without clear and adequate compensation being paid to the city for the transfer and further provided such transfers may only be made in areas of the city zoned C-1.
Sec. 1.14. - Exercise of Powers.
All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees shall be carried into execution by this charter. If this charter makes no provision, such shall be carried into execution as provided by ordinance or as provided by pertinent laws of the State of Georgia.
ARTICLE II. - GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

Sec. 2.10. - Council Creation; Numbers; Election.
The legislative authority of the government of this city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this charter, shall be vested in a city council to be composed of a mayor and six councilmembers. The city council established shall in all respects be a successor to and continuation of the governing authority under prior law. The mayor and councilmembers shall be elected in the manner provided by general law and this charter.
Sec. 2.11. - Council Terms and Qualifications for Office.
The members of the city council shall serve for terms of four years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, except as otherwise provided by Section 5.12 of this charter. No person shall be eligible to serve as mayor or councilmember unless that person shall have been a resident of the city for 12 months prior to the date of election of the mayor and members of the council and each shall continue to reside therein during that period of service and to be registered and qualified to vote in municipal elections of this city.
(H.B. 629 of 2009, § 1)
Editor's note— The amendment of § 2.11 was approved by the voters at a referendum held on Nov. 2, 2010)
Sec. 2.12. - Vacancies; Filling of Vacancies.
(a)
The office of mayor or councilmember shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any event specified by the Constitution of the State of Georgia, Title 45 of the O.C.G.A., or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
A vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, if any, as provided in Sections 5.18 and 5.19 of this charter.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 1)
Sec. 2.13. - Compensation and Expenses.
The mayor and councilmembers shall receive compensation and expenses for their services as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.14. - Holding Other Office; Voting When Financially Interested.
(a)
Elected and appointed officials of the city are trustees and servants of the residents of the city and shall act in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of such residents.
(b)
Except as authorized by law, the mayor or any council member shall not hold any other city office or city employment during the term for which that person was elected.
(c)
Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall vote upon, sign, or veto any ordinance, resolution, contract, or other matter in which that person is financially interested.
Sec. 2.15. - Inquiries and Investigations.
Following the adoption of an authorizing resolution, the city council may make inquiries and investigations into the affairs of the city and the conduct of any department, office, or agency thereof, and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order issued in the exercise of these powers by the city council shall be punished as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 2.16. - General Power and Authority of the Council.
Except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, the city council shall be vested with all the powers of government of this city.
Sec. 2.17. - Eminent Domain.
The city council is empowered to acquire, construct, operate, and maintain public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, waterworks, electrical systems, gas systems, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies, and facilities, and any other public improvements inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes, property may be condemned under procedures established under general law applicable now or as provided in the future.
Sec. 2.18. - Organizational Meetings.
The city council shall hold an organizational meeting on the first business day in January following their election. The meeting shall be called to order by the clerk of council and the oath of office shall be administered to the newly elected members as follows:
"I do solemnly (swear)(affirm) that I will faithfully perform the duties of (mayor)(councilmember) of the City of Tybee Island and that I will support and defined [defend] the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
Sec. 2.19. - Regular and Special Meetings.
(a)
The city council shall hold regular meetings at such times and places as shall be prescribed by ordinance.
(b)
Special meetings of the city council may be held on call of the mayor or four members of the city council. Notice of such special meetings shall be served on all other members personally, or by telephone personally, at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Such notice to councilmembers shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmembers are present when the special meeting is called. Such notice of any special meeting may be waived by a councilmember in writing before or after such a meeting, and attendance at the meeting shall also constitute a waiver of notice on any business transacted in such councilmember's presence. Only the business stated in the call may be transacted at the special meeting.
(c)
All meetings of the city council shall be public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of special meetings shall be made fully as is reasonably possible as provided by Code Section 50-14-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1], or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 2.20. - Rules of Procedure.
(a)
The city shall adopt its rules of procedure and order of business consistent with the provisions of this charter and shall provide for keeping a journal of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(b)
All committees of the city council shall be appointed by the mayor and shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and council. The mayor shall have the power to appoint new members to any committee at any time with the approval of the council.
Sec. 2.21. - Quorum; Voting.
Three councilmembers shall constitute a quorum and shall be authorized to transact business of the city council. Voting on the adoption of ordinances shall be by voice vote and the vote shall be recorded in the journal, but any member of the city council shall have the right to request a roll-call vote and such vote shall be recorded in the journal. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the affirmative vote of a majority of councilmembers present, provided a quorum exists, shall be required for the adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or motion or for any action by council. An abstention shall be counted as an affirmative vote. The mayor may not vote on any matter before the council for determination except, in the event of a tie vote of council, the mayor will be required to vote on the matter then under consideration in order to break the tie vote of the council, and in such event of a tie, the mayor may not abstain or refrain from voting unless legally disqualified.
Sec. 2.22. - Ordinance Form; Procedures.
(a)
Every proposed ordinance should be introduced in writing and in the form required for final adoption. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not expressed in its title. The enacting clause shall be "It is hereby ordained by the governing authority of the City of Tybee Island" and every ordinance shall so begin.
(b)
An ordinance may be introduced by any councilmember and be read at a regular or special meeting of the city council. Ordinances shall be considered and adopted or rejected by the city council in accordance with the rules which it shall establish; provided, however, an ordinance shall not be adopted the same day it is introduced, except for emergency ordinances provided in Section 2.24 of this charter. Upon introduction of any ordinance, the clerk shall as soon as possible distribute a copy to the mayor and to each councilmember and shall file a reasonable number of copies in the office of the clerk and at such other public places as the city council may designate.
Sec. 2.23. - Action Requiring An Ordinance.
Acts of the city council which have the force and effect of law shall be enacted by ordinance.
Sec. 2.24. - Emergencies.
(a)
To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, property, or public peace, the city council may convene on call of the mayor or three councilmembers and promptly adopt an emergency ordinance, but such ordinance may not levy taxes; grant, renew, or extend a franchise; regulate the rate charged by any public utility for its services; or authorize the borrowing of money except for loans to be repaid within 30 days. An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form prescribed for ordinances generally, except that it shall be plainly designated as an emergency ordinance and shall contain, after the enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists, and describing the emergency in clear and specific terms. An emergency ordinance may be adopted, with or without amendment, or rejected at a meeting at which it is introduced, but the affirmative vote of at least three councilmembers shall be required for adoption. It shall become effective upon adoption or at such later time as it may specify. Every emergency ordinance shall automatically stand repealed 30 days following the date upon which it was adopted, but this shall not prevent reenactment of the ordinance in the manner specified in this section if the emergency still exists. An emergency ordinance may also be repealed by adoption of a repealing ordinance in the same manner specified in this section for adoption of emergency ordinances.
(b)
Such meetings shall be open to the public to the extent required by law and notice to the public of emergency meetings shall be made as fully as is reasonably possible in accordance with Code Section 51-14-1 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 51-14-1], or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be [enacted.]
Sec. 2.25. - Codes of Technical Regulations.
(a)
The city council may adopt any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance. The procedure and requirements governing such adopting ordinance shall be as prescribed for ordinances generally except that: (1) the requirements of subsection (b) of Section 2.22 of this charter for distribution and filing of copies of the ordinance shall be construed to include copies of any code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance; and (2) a copy of each adopted code of technical regulations, as well as the adopting ordinance, shall be authenticated and recorded by the clerk pursuant to Section 2.26 of this charter.
(b)
Copies of any adopted code of technical regulations shall be made available by the clerk for inspection by the public.
Sec. 2.26. - Signing, Authenticating; Recording; Codification; Printing.
(a)
The clerk shall authenticate by the clerk's signature and record in full in a properly indexed book kept for that purpose all ordinances adopted by the council.
(b)
The city council shall provide for the preparation of a general codification of all the ordinances of the city having the force and effect of law. The general codification shall be adopted by the city council by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations as the city council may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of the City of Tybee Island, Georgia." Copies of the code shall be furnished to all officers, departments, and agencies of the city and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the city council.
(c)
The city council shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to this charter to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and charter amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the city council. Following publication of the first code under this charter and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and charter amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The city council shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations include[d] in the code.
Sec. 2.27. - Manager; Appointment; Qualifications; Compensation.
The city council shall appoint a city manager for an indefinite term and shall fix the manager's compensation. The manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications.
Sec. 2.28. - Removal of Manager.
The city manager is employed at will and may be summarily removed from office at any time by the city council.
Sec. 2.29. - Acting Manager.
By letter filed with the clerk of council, the manager shall designate, subject to approval by the city council, a qualified city administrative officer to exercise the powers and perform the duties of manager during the manager's temporary absence or physical or mental disability. During such absence or disability, the city council may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another officer of the city to serve until the manager shall return or the manager's disability shall cease.
Sec. 2.30. - Powers and Duties of the Manager.
The city manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the city. The manager shall be responsible to the city council for the administration of all city affairs placed in the manager's charge by or under this charter. As the chief executive and administrative officer, the manager shall:
(1)
Appoint and, when the manager deems it necessary for the good of the city, suspend or remove all city employees and administrative officers the manager appoints, except as otherwise provided by law or personnel ordinances adopted pursuant to this charter. The manager may authorize any administrative officer who is subject to the manager's direction and supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that officer's department, office, or agency;
(2)
Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices, and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law;
(3)
Attend all city council meetings except for closed meetings held for the purposes of deliberating on the appointment, discipline, or removal of the city manager and have the right to take part in discussion but not vote;
(4)
See that all laws, provisions of this charter, and acts of the city council, subject to enforcement by the manager or by officers subject to the manager's direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
(5)
Prepare and submit the annual operating budget and capital budget to the city council;
(6)
Submit to the city council and make available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year;
(7)
Make such other reports as the city council may require concerning the operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the manager's direction and supervision;
(8)
Keep the city council fully advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and make such recommendations to the city council concerning the affairs of the city as the manager deems desirable; and
(9)
Perform other such duties as are specified in this charter or as may be required by the city council.
Sec. 2.31. - Council Interference with Administration.
Except for the purpose of inquiries and investigations under Section 2.15 of this charter, the city council or its members shall deal with city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the manager solely through the manager, and neither the city council nor its members shall give orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately.
Sec. 2.32. - Powers and Duties of Mayor.
The mayor shall:
(1)
Preside at all meetings of the city council;
(2)
Be the head of the city for the purpose of service of process and for ceremonial purposes, and be the official spokesperson for the city and the chief advocate of policy;
(3)
Have the power to administer oaths and to take affidavits; and
(4)
Sign as a matter of course on behalf of the city all written and approved contracts, ordinances, and other instruments executed by the city which by law are required to be in writing.
Sec. 2.33. - Selection and Powers and Duties of the Mayor Pro Tem.
At the first regular meeting of the city council following the regular election of the mayor every four years, the city council shall select one of its members as mayor pro tem. During the absence or physical or mental disability of the mayor for any cause, the mayor pro tem, or in the mayor pro tem's absence or disability for any reason, any one of the councilmembers chosen by a majority vote of the city council, shall be clothed with all the rights and privileges of the mayor and shall perform the duties of the office of the mayor so long as such absence or disability shall continue. Any such absence or disability shall be declared by a majority vote of all councilmembers. The mayor pro tem or selected councilmember shall sign all contracts and ordinances in which the mayor has a disqualifying financial interest as provided in Section 2.14 of this charter.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 2)
ARTICLE III. - ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS

Sec. 3.10. - Administrative and Service Departments.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the city council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the functions or duties and establish, abolish, alter, consolidate, or leave vacant all nonelective offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, as necessary for the proper administration of the affairs and government of this city.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, the directors of departments and other appointed officers of the city shall be appointed solely on the basis of their respective administrative and professional qualifications.
(c)
All appointive officers and directors of departments shall receive such compensation as prescribed by ordinance.
(d)
There shall be a director of each department or agency who shall be its principal officer. Each director shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the city manager, be responsible for the administration and direction of the affairs and operations of that director's department or agency.
(e)
All appointive officers and directors under the supervision of the city manager shall be nominated by the city manager with confirmation of appointment by the city council. All appointive officers and directors shall be employees at will and subject to removal or suspension at any time by the city manager unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
Sec. 3.11. - Boards, Commissions, and Authorities.
(a)
The city council shall create by ordinance such boards, commissions, and authorities to fulfill any investigative, quasi-judicial, or quasi-legislative function the city council deems necessary and shall by ordinance establish the composition, period of existence, duties, and powers thereof.
(b)
All members of boards, commissions, and authorities of the city shall be appointed by the city council for such terms of office and in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance, except where other appointing authority, terms of office, or manner of appointment is prescribed by this charter or by law.
(c)
The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the compensation and reimbursement for actual and necessary expenses of the members of any board, commission, or authority.
(d)
Except as otherwise provided by charter or by law, no member of any board, commission, or authority shall hold any elective office in the city.
(e)
Any vacancy on a board, commission, or authority of the city shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner prescribed in this section for original appointment, except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law.
(f)
No member of a board, commission, or authority shall assume office until that person has executed and filed with the clerk of the city an oath obligating himself or herself to faithfully and impartially perform the duties of that member's office, such oath to be prescribed by ordinance and administered by the mayor.
(g)
All board members serve at will and may be removed at any time by a vote of a simple majority of the city council unless otherwise provided by law.
(h)
Except as otherwise provided by this charter or by law, each board, commission, or authority of the city shall elect one of its members as chair and one member as vice chair and may elect as its secretary one of its own members or may appoint as secretary an employee of the city. Each board, commission, or authority of the city government may establish such bylaws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with this charter, ordinances of the city, or law, as it deems appropriate and necessary for the fulfillment of its duties or the conduct of its affairs. Copies of such bylaws, rules, and regulations shall be filed with the clerk of the city.
Sec. 3.12. - Attorney.
The city council shall appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized, and shall provide for the payment of such attorney or attorneys for services rendered to the city. The city attorney shall be responsible for providing for the representation and defense of the city in all litigation in which the city is a party; may be the prosecuting officer in the municipal court; shall attend the meetings of the council as directed; shall advise the city council, mayor, and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs; and shall perform such other duties as may be required by virtue of the person's position as city attorney.
Sec. 3.13. - Clerk/Clerk of Council.
The city council shall appoint a city clerk who shall not be a councilmember. The city clerk shall be custodian of the official city seal and city records, maintain city council records required by this charter, and perform such other duties as may be required by the city council. The terms "city clerk" and "clerk of council" shall be synonymous.
Sec. 3.14. - Position Classification and Pay Plans.
The city manager shall be responsible for the preparation of a position classification and pay plan which shall be submitted to the city council for approval. Such plan may apply to all employees of the city and any of its agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or authorities. When a pay plan has been adopted, the city council shall not increase or decrease the salary range applicable to any position except by amendment of such pay plan. For purposes of this section, all elected and appointed city officials are not city employees.
Sec. 3.15. - Personnel Policies.
All employees serve at will and may be removed from office at any time unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. - JUDICIAL BRANCH

Sec. 4.10. - Creation; Name.
There shall be a court to be known as the Municipal Court of the City of Tybee Island.
Sec. 4.11. - Chief Judge; Associate Judge.
(a)
The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge and such part-time, full-time, or standby judges as shall be provided by ordinance.
(b)
No person shall be qualified or eligible to serve as a judge on the municipal court unless that person shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall be a member of the State Bar of Georgia, and shall possess all qualifications required by law. All judges shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c)
Compensation of the judges shall be fixed by ordinance.
(d)
Judges serve at will and may be removed from office at any time by the city council unless otherwise provided by ordinance.
(e)
Before assuming office, each judge shall take an oath, given by the mayor, or his or her designee, that the judge will honestly and faithfully discharge the duties of the office to the best of that person's ability and without fear, favor, or partiality. The oath shall be entered upon the minutes of the city council journal required in Section 2.20 of this charter.
Sec. 4.12. - Convening.
The municipal court shall be convened at regular intervals as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.13. - Jurisdiction; Powers.
(a)
The municipal court shall try and punish violators of this charter, all city ordinances, and such other violations as provided by law.
(b)
The municipal court shall have authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such punishment shall not exceed $200.00 or ten days in jail.
(c)
The municipal court may fix punishment for offenses within its jurisdiction not exceeding a fine of $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 12 months or both such fine and imprisonment or may fix punishment by fine, imprisonment, or alternative sentencing as now or hereafter provided by law.
(d)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish a schedule of fees to defray the cost of operation and shall be entitled to reimbursement of the cost of meals, transportation, and caretaking of prisoners bound over to superior courts for violations of state law.
(e)
The municipal court shall have authority to establish bail and recognizance to ensure the presence of those charged with violations before said court and shall have discretionary authority to accept cash or personal or real property as surety for the appearance of persons charged with violations. Whenever any person shall give bail for that person's appearance and shall fail to appear at the time fixed for trial, the bond shall be forfeited by the judge presiding at such time and an execution issued thereon by serving the defendant and the defendant's sureties with a rule nisi at least two days before a hearing on a rule nisi. In the event that cash or property is accepted in lieu of bond for security for the appearance of a defendant at trial, and if such defendant fails to appear at the time and place fixed for trial, the cash so deposited shall be on order of the judge declared forfeited to the city, or the property so deposited shall have a lien against it for the value forfeited which lien shall be enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as a lien for city property taxes.
(f)
The municipal court shall have the same authority as superior courts to compel the production of evidence in the possession of any party; to enforce obedience to its orders, judgments, and sentences; and to administer such oaths as are necessary.
(g)
The municipal court may compel the presence of all parties necessary to a proper disposal of each case by the issuance of summonses, subpoenas, and warrants which may be served as executed by any officer as authorized by this charter or by law.
(h)
Each judge of the municipal court shall be authorized to issue warrants for the arrest of persons charged with offenses against any ordinance of the city, and each judge of the municipal court shall have the same authority as a magistrate of the state to issue warrants for offenses against state laws committed within the city.
Sec. 4.14. - Certiorari.
The right of certiorari from the decision and judgment of the municipal court shall exist in all criminal cases and ordinance violation cases, and such certiorari shall be obtained under the sanction of a judge of the Superior Court of Chatham County under the laws of the State of Georgia regulating the granting and issuance of writs of certiorari.
Sec. 4.15. - Rules of the Court.
The judge of the municipal court shall have the full power and authority to make reasonable rules and regulations necessary and proper to secure the efficient and successful administration of the municipal court. Any rules which may be adopted by the Court shall be available for public inspection and upon request a copy shall be furnished to all defendants in municipal proceedings at least 48 hours prior to said proceedings.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008(1))
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS AND REMOVAL

Sec. 5.10. - Applicability of General Law.
All elections shall be held and conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Title 21 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.], the "Georgia Municipal Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 5.11. - Regular Elections; Time for Holding.
In odd-numbered years, on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November, and biannually thereafter, a regular election shall be held in the City of Tybee Island at such place or places as the city council may designate for the election of the appropriate number of councilmembers, who shall have the qualifications specified in this charter to hold such office. An incumbent mayor or incumbent councilmember who shall qualify as a candidate and meet the qualifications to hold such office may be a candidate to succeed himself or herself for such office or for office as a member of the city council. As provided in Section 5.12 of this charter, the mayor shall be elected to four-year terms of office and the mayoral election shall accompany the election on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in odd-numbered years by four-year terms.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 3)
Sec. 5.12. - Continuation in Office of Mayor and Councilmembers; Commencing Terms.
The mayor and six councilmembers elected at the general municipal election in November, 2009, shall serve for and during the two-year terms for which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified. Of those six persons elected as councilmembers at the general municipal election in 2011, the three elected councilmembers who received the least number of votes shall serve for terms of two years each and until their successors are elected and qualified; and the three other councilmembers and mayor elected at the general municipal election in 2011 shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are elected and qualified; and all shall take office on the first day of January following their elections. Thereafter, all successors to the mayor and six councilmembers shall serve for terms of four years each and until their successors are elected and qualified, and all shall take office on the first day of January following their elections.
(H.B. 629 of 2009, § 2)
Editor's note— The amendment of § 2.11 was approved by the voters at a referendum held on Nov. 2, 2010)
Sec. 5.13. - Nonpartisan Elections.
Political parties shall not conduct primaries for city offices and all names of candidates for city offices shall be listed without party designations and no political party shall conduct primaries for the purpose of nominating candidates for such municipal elections.
Sec. 5.14. - Election of Mayor By Plurality.
The person receiving a plurality of the votes cast for the office of mayor shall be elected.
Sec. 5.15. - Run-off Election.
In the event of a tie vote in any election between two or more candidates for any office, whether mayor or councilmember, a new election between only the candidates thus tied in number of votes for the particular office shall be ordered held by the council in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 21-3-40 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 21-2-1 et seq.] and the person who shall receive the highest number of votes cast in the second or run-off election for each office shall be declared to have been duly elected to the office.
Sec. 5.16. - Times of Qualifying of Candidates.
Qualification of candidates for municipal office shall begin no later than the forty-fifth day before the general election and shall close no later than the thirtieth day before the general election, and shall begin no later than the thirtieth day before a special election and shall close no later than the tenth day before such special election. The times of beginning and ending qualification of candidates shall be consistent with the normal operating hours of the city hall.
Sec. 5.17. - Nondesignation of Specific Office by Candidate; Highest Vote Elects.
A candidate seeking one of two or more public offices each having the same title and to be filled at the same election by the vote of the same electors shall not designate the specific office he or she is seeking. The candidates for city council receiving the highest number of lawful votes cast shall be elected as the councilmembers of the City of Tybee Island.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 4)
Sec. 5.18. - Filling Vacancy in Office of Mayor or Councilmembers.
(a)
Should, during the term of office to which elected, the mayor or any councilmember die, resign, remove or change residence beyond the city limits of the municipality, or otherwise fail to meet all of the qualifications prescribed in this charter for the particular office held at the time, the office of such person shall thereby become, and thereupon be declared, vacant; and, in case of vacancy in the office of mayor or of any councilmember from any cause whatsoever other than expiration of the term of office, the mayor and remaining members of the council, or the remaining members of the council, as the case may be, shall elect within 30 days after the vacancy occurs a qualified person to fill the vacant office; provided, however, that if the vacancy to be filled is the office of mayor, the office shall be assumed and filled by the mayor pro tem elected by the mayor and councilmembers pursuant to Section 2.33 of this charter. The council seat vacated by the former councilmember holding the office of mayor pro tem shall then be vacant and such vacant council seat shall be filled in accordance with this section.
(b)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of a councilmember prior to the expiration of the regular term of office, such vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, by appointment by the mayor and council if less than 12 months remain in the unexpired term, otherwise by an election provided for in this charter and in accordance with Titles 21 and 45 of the O.C.G.A., or such other laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 5)
Sec. 5.19. - Special Election; Vacancies.
In the event that the office of a councilmember shall become vacant as provided in Section 2.12 or pursuant to Section 5.18 of this charter, and which vacancy occurs with more than 12 months remaining in the term of the elected official, such office shall be filled by special election to be held and conducted in accordance with Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code," as now or hereafter amended.
( H.B. 590 of 2019, § 6)
Editor's note— H.B. 590 , § 6, passed Apr. 2, 2019, amended § 5.19 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former § 5.19 pertained to "Other Provisions" and derived from the original Charter.
Sec. 5.20. - Removal of Officers.
(a)
The mayor, councilmembers, or other appointed officers provided for in this charter shall be removed from office for any one or more of the causes provided in Title 45 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 45-2-1 et seq.] or such other applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
(b)
Removal of an officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be accomplished in one of the following methods:
(1)
Following a hearing at which an impartial panel shall render a decision. In the event an elected officer is sought to be removed by action of the city council, such officer shall be entitled to a written notice specifying the ground or grounds for removal and to a public hearing which shall be held not less than ten days after the service of such written notice. The city council shall provide by ordinance for the manner in which such hearings shall be held. Any elected officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this paragraph shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the city council to the Superior Court of Chatham County. Such appeal shall be governed by the same rules as govern appeals to the superior court from the probate court; or
(2)
By an order of the Superior Court of Chatham County following a hearing on a complaint seeking such removal brought by any resident of the City of Tybee Island.
ARTICLE VI. - FINANCE

Sec. 6.10. - Property Tax.
The city council may assess, levy, and collect an ad valorem tax on all real and personal property within the corporate limits of the city that is subject to such taxation by the state and county. This tax is for the purpose of raising revenues to defray the costs of operating the city government, of providing governmental services, for the repayment of principal and interest on general obligations, and for any other public purpose as determined by the city council in its discretion.
Sec. 6.11. - Millage Rate; Due Dates; Payment Methods.
The city council, by ordinance, shall establish a millage rate for the city property tax, a due date, and the time period within which these taxes must be paid. The city council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of these taxes by installments or in one lump sum, as well as authorize the voluntary payment of taxes prior to the time when due.
Sec. 6.12. - Property Tax; Special.
The city council shall have the power to levy, impose, and collect in addition to the mills otherwise provided by law, a special tax on the total value of the assessment of all real and personal property within the city for purposes of construction, maintenance, and repair of the following:
(1)
Seawalls and groins;
(2)
Beach erosion;
(3)
Street paving;
(4)
Collection and disposal of garbage; and
(5)
Sewage and pollution.
Such special tax shall not be imposed for longer than one fiscal year at a time, but may be renewed annually if so required, and shall not exceed a collective total of a maximum of ten mills whether imposed for one, for more than one, or for all five of the specific purposes stated. In all cases where it shall be necessary to levy a special additional tax for any one or more of the purposes stated in this section, the levy and assessment of the same for each such purpose shall be separately made and collected and all amounts so collected shall be applied exclusively to said maintenance and expense for which the said tax is levied and collected.
Sec. 6.13. - Taxes and Licenses for Use of Streets.
The city council shall have full power and authority and is empowered to assess and levy taxes and licenses for the use of the streets, lanes, and sidewalks of the City of Tybee Island for business purposes; and no person, firm, or corporation shall have the right to use the streets of the City of Tybee Island for business purposes without first having obtained the consent and license of the city council of the City of Tybee Island.
Sec. 6.14. - Parking, Street, and Beach Use Fee.
(a)
The city council may provide by ordinance for the imposition and collection of a parking, street, and beach use fee upon motor vehicles entering the City of Tybee Island. Such ordinance shall not apply to motor vehicles owned by residents of the city or to motor vehicles owned by persons who own property within the city. The city council may classify persons, firms, or corporations for the purpose of the ordinance authorized by this section and may provide for such other exceptions to the application of such ordinance as may be reasonable or necessary.
(b)
The city council may prescribe penalties and punishment for the violation of any ordinance adopted by the city council pursuant to the authority of this section.
Sec. 6.15. - Occupation and Business Taxes.
The city council by ordinance shall have the power to levy such occupation or business taxes as are not denied by law. The city council may classify businesses, occupations, or professions for purposes of such taxation in any way which may be lawful and may compel the payment of such taxes as provided in Section 6.21 of this charter.
Sec. 6.16. - Regulatory Fees; Permits.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to require businesses or practitioners doing business within the city to obtain a permit for such activity from the city and pay a reasonable regulatory fee for such permit as provided by general law. Such fees shall reflect the total cost to the city of regulating the activity and, if unpaid, shall be collected as provided in Section 6.21 of this charter.
Sec. 6.17. - Franchises.
(a)
The city council shall have the power to grant franchises for the use of the city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations. The city council shall determine the duration, terms, whether the same shall be exclusive or nonexclusive, and the consideration for such franchises; provided, however, no franchise shall be granted for a period in excess of 35 years and no franchise shall be granted unless the city receives just and adequate compensation therefor. The city council shall provide for the registration of all franchises with the city clerk in a registration book kept by the clerk. The city council may provide by ordinance for the registration within a reasonable time of all franchises previously granted.
(b)
If no franchise agreement is in effect, the city council has the authority to impose a tax on gross receipts for the use of the city's streets and alleys for the purposes of railroads, street railways, telephone companies, electric companies, electric membership corporations, cable television and other telecommunications companies, gas companies, transportation companies, and other similar organizations.
Sec. 6.18. - Service Charges.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect fees, charges, and tolls for sewers, sanitary and health services, or any other services provided or made available within and outside the corporate limits of the city for the total cost to the city of providing or making available such services. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.21 of this charter.
Sec. 6.19. - Special Assessments.
The city council, by ordinance, shall have the power to assess and collect the cost[s] of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, street, sidewalk, curbing, gutters, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances from the abutting property owners under such terms and conditions as are reasonable. If unpaid, such charges shall be collected as provided in Section 6.21 of this charter.
Sec. 6.20. - Construction; Other Taxes and Fees.
This city shall be empowered to levy any other tax or fee allowed now or hereafter by law, and the specific mention of any right, power, or authority in this article shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the city to govern its local affairs.
Sec. 6.21. - Collection of Delinquent Taxes and Fees.
The city council, by ordinance, may provide generally for the collection of delinquent taxes, fees, or other revenue due the city under Sections 6.10 through 6.20 of this charter by whatever reasonable means as are not precluded by law. This shall include providing for the dates when the taxes or fees are due; late penalties or interest; issuance and execution of fi.fa.'s; creation and priority of liens; making delinquent taxes and fees personal debts of the persons required to pay the taxes or fees imposed; revoking city permits for failure to pay any city taxes or fees; and providing for the assignment or transfer of tax executions.
Sec. 6.22. - General Obligation Bonds.
The city council shall have the power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising revenue to carry out any project, program, or venture authorized under this charter or the laws of the state. Such bonding authority shall be exercised in accordance with the laws governing bond issuance by municipalities in effect at the time said issue is undertaken.
Sec. 6.23. - Revenue Bonds.
Revenue bonds may be issued by the city council as state law now or hereafter provides. Such bonds are to be paid out of any revenue produced by the project, program, or venture for which they were issued.
Sec. 6.24. - Short-Term Loans.
The city may obtain short-term loans and must repay such loans not later than December 31 of each year, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 6.25. - Lease-Purchase Contracts.
The city may enter into multiyear lease, purchase, or lease purchase contracts for the acquisition of goods, materials, real and personal property, services, and supplies provided the contract terminates without further obligation on the part of the municipality at the close of the calendar year in which it was executed and at the close of each succeeding calendar year for which it may be renewed. Contracts must be executed in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 36-60-13 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated [O.C.G.A. § 36-60-13], or other such applicable laws as are or may hereafter be enacted.
Sec. 6.26. - Fiscal Year.
The city council shall set the fiscal year by ordinance. The fiscal year shall constitute the budget year and the year for financial accounting and reporting of each and every office, department, agency, and activity of the city government.
Sec. 6.27. - Preparation of Budgets.
The city council shall provide an ordinance on the procedures and requirements for the preparation and execution of an annual operating budget, a capital improvement plan, and a capital budget, including requirements as to the scope, content, and form of such budgets and plans.
Sec. 6.28. - Submission of Operating Budget to Council.
On or before a date fixed by the city council but not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall be accompanied by a message from the city manager containing a statement of the general fiscal policies of the city, the important features of the budget, explanations of major changes recommended for the next fiscal year, a general summary of the budget, and other pertinent comments and information. The operating budget and the capital budget hereinafter provided for, the budget message, and all supporting documents shall be filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
Sec. 6.29. - Action by Council on Budget.
(a)
The city council may amend the operating budget proposed by the city manager; except that the budget as finally amended and adopted must provide for all expenditures required by state law or by other provisions of this charter and for all debt service requirements for the ensuing fiscal year and the total appropriations from any fund shall not exceed the estimated fund balance, reserves, and revenues.
(b)
The city council by ordinance shall adopt the final operating budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the 30th day of June of each year. If the city council fails to adopt the budget by this date, the amounts appropriated for operation for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the ensuing year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated accordingly until such time as the city council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year. Adoption of the budget shall take the form of an appropriations ordinance setting out the estimated revenues in detail by sources and making appropriations according to fund and by organizational unit, purpose, or activity, as set out in the budget preparation ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 6.27 of this charter.
(c)
The amount set out in the adopted operating budget for each organizational unit shall constitute the annual appropriation for such, and no expenditure shall be made or encumbrance created in excess of the otherwise unencumbered balance of the appropriations or allotment thereof to which it is chargeable.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008(2))
Sec. 6.30. - Tax Levies.
The city council shall levy by ordinance such taxes as are necessary. The taxes and tax rates set by such ordinance shall be such that reasonable estimates of revenues from such levy shall at least be sufficient, together with other anticipated revenues, fund balances, and applicable reserves, to equal the total amount appropriated for each of the several funds set forth in the annual operating budget for defraying the expenses of the general government of the city.
Sec. 6.31. - Changes in Appropriations.
The city council may make changes in the appropriations contained in the current operating budget at any regular meeting or any special or emergency meeting called for such purpose, but any additional appropriations may be made only from an existing unexpended surplus.
Sec. 6.32. - Capital Budget.
(a)
On or before the date fixed by the city council but no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the city manager shall submit to the city council a proposed capital improvements plan with a recommended capital budget containing the means of financing the improvements proposed for the ensuing fiscal year. The city council shall have the power to accept, with or without amendments, or reject the proposed plan and proposed budget. The city council shall not authorize an expenditure for the construction of any building, structure, work, or improvement unless the appropriations for such project are included in the capital budget, except to meet a public emergency as provided in Section 2.24 of this charter.
(b)
The city council shall adopt by ordinance the final capital budget for the ensuing fiscal year not later than the 30th day of June of each year. No appropriation provided for in a capital budget shall lapse until the purpose for which the appropriation was made shall have been accomplished or abandoned; provided, however, the city manager may submit amendments to the capital budget at any time during the fiscal year, accompanied by recommendations. Any such amendments to the capital budget shall become effective only upon adoption by ordinance.
(Ord. of 12-11-2008(3))
Sec. 6.33. - Independent Audit.
There shall be an annual independent audit of all city accounts, funds, and financial transactions by a certified public accountant selected by the city council. The audit shall be conducted according to generally accepted auditing principles. Any audit of any funds by the state or federal governments may be accepted as satisfying the requirements of this charter. Copies of annual audit reports shall be available at printing costs to the public.
Sec. 6.34. - Contracting Procedures.
No contract with the city shall be binding on the city unless:
(1)
It is in writing;
(2)
It is drawn by or submitted and reviewed by the city attorney and, as a matter of course, is signed by the city attorney to indicate such drafting or review; and
(3)
It is made or authorized by the city council and such approval is entered in the city council journal of proceedings.
Sec. 6. - 35. Sale and Lease of Property.
(a)
The city council may sell and convey or lease any real or personal property owned or held by the city for governmental or other purposes as now or hereafter provided by law.
(b)
The city council may quitclaim any rights it may have in property not needed for public purposes upon report by the city manager and adoption of a resolution, both finding that the property is not needed for public or other purposes and that the interest of the city has no readily ascertainable monetary value.
(c)
Whenever in opening, extending, or widening any street, avenue, alley, or public place of the city, a small parcel or tract of land is cut off or separated by such work from a larger tract or boundary of land owned by the city, the city council may authorize the city manager to sell and convey said cut off or separated parcel or tract of land to an abutting or adjoining property owner or owners where such sale and conveyance facilities the enjoyment of the highest and best use of the abutting owner's property. Included in the sales contract shall be a provision for the rights-of-way of said street, avenue, alley, or public place. Each abutting property owner shall be notified under such terms and conditions as set out by ordinance. All deeds and conveyances heretofore and hereafter so executed and delivered shall convey all title and interest the city has in such property, notwithstanding the fact that no public sale after advertisement was or is hereafter made.
ARTICLE VII. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 7.10. - Bonds for Officials.
The officers and employees of the city, both elective and appointive, shall execute such surety or fidelity bonds in such amounts and upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall from time to time require by ordinance or as may be provided by law.
Sec. 7.11. - Prior Ordinances.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations now in force in the city not inconsistent with this charter are declared valid and of full effect and force until amended or repealed by the city council.
Sec. 7.12. - Existing Personnel and Officers.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all personnel and officers of the city and their rights, privileges, and powers shall continue beyond the time this charter takes effect for a period of 90 days before or during which the existing city council shall pass a transition ordinance detailing the changes in personnel and appointive officers required or desired and arranging such titles, rights, privileges, and powers as may be required or desired to allow a reasonable transition.
Sec. 7.13. - Pending Matters.
Except as specifically provided otherwise by this charter, all rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative proceedings shall continue and any such ongoing work or cases shall be completed by such city agencies, personnel, or offices as may be provided by the city council.
Sec. 7.14. - Construction.
(a)
Section captions in this charter are informative only and are not to be considered as a part thereof.
(b)
The word "shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive.
(c)
The singular shall include the plural, the masculine shall include the feminine, and vice versa.
Sec. 7.15. - Severability.
If any article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof of this charter shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or impair other parts of this charter unless it clearly appears that such other parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part held to be invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this charter that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part thereof be enacted separately and independent of each other.
Sec. 7.16. - Referendum.
Unless prohibited by the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, the election superintendent of the City of Tybee Island shall call and conduct an election as provided in this section for the purpose of submitting this Act to the electors of the City of Tybee Island for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall conduct that election on the date of the November, 1995, municipal general election and shall issue the call and conduct that election as provided by general law. The superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of Chatham County. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the words:
"() YES
() NO
Shall the Act be approved which provides a new charter for the City of Tybee Island and which, among other things, provides for the appointment of a city manager and the adoption of a city manager form of government?"
All persons desiring to vote for approval of the Act shall vote "Yes," and those persons desiring to vote for rejection of the Act shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are for approval of the Act, Sections 1.10 through 7.15 and Sections 7.18 and 7.19 shall become of full force and effect on January 1, 1996. If the Act is not so approved or if the election is not conducted as provided in this section, the remaining sections of this Act shall not become effective and this Act shall be automatically repealed on the first day of January immediately following that election date. The expense of such election shall be borne by the City of Tybee Island. It shall be the election superintendent's duty to certify the result thereof to the Secretary of State.
Sec. 7.17. - Effective Dates.
This section and Section 7.16 of this Act shall become effective immediately upon approval of this Act by the Governor or upon its becoming law without such approval for the purpose of conducting the referendum provided for in Section 7.16. The remaining provisions of this Act shall become effective as provided in Section 7.16.
Sec. 7.18. - Specific Repealer.
An Act incorporating the City of Tybee Island in the County of Chatham, approved February 20, 1970 (Ga. L. 1970, p. 2080), as amended, is repealed in its entirety.
Sec. 7.19. - Repealer.
All other laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
