ARTICLE VIII. - WATER CONSERVATION RESTRICTIONS

Sec. 5-113. - Definitions.
Commercial: Any type of building other than residential.
Construction: The erection of a new building or the alteration of an existing building in connection with its repair or renovation or in connection with making an addition to an existing building, and shall include the replacement of a malfunctioning, unserviceable or obsolete faucet, showerhead, toilet or urinal in an existing building.
Residential: Any building or unit of a building intended for occupancy as a dwelling but shall not include a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-114. - Construction of residential buildings.
On or after April 1, 1992, no construction may be initiated within the unincorporated areas of the county for any residential building of any type which:
(1)
Employs a gravity tank-type, flushometer-valve, or flushometer-tank toilet that uses more than an average of 1.6 gallons of water per flush; however, this paragraph shall not be applicable to one-piece toilets until July 1, 1992;
(2)
Employs a shower head that allows a flow or more than an average of 2½ gallons of water per minute at 60 pounds per square inch of pressure;
(3)
Employs a urinal that uses more than an average of one gallon of water per flush;
(4)
Employs a lavatory faucet or lavatory replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than two gallons of water per minute; or
(5)
Employs a kitchen faucet or kitchen replacement aerator that allows a flow of more than 2½ gallons of water per minute.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-115. - Construction of commercial buildings.
On or after July 1, 1992, there shall be no construction of any commercial building initiated within the unincorporated areas of Whitfield County for any commercial building of any type which does not meet the requirements of subsections (1) through (5) of section 5-114.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-116. - Repair or renovation of buildings.
The requirements of section 5-114 shall apply to any residential construction initiated after April 1, 1992, and to any commercial construction initiated after July 1, 1992, which involves the repair or renovation of or addition to any existing building when such repair or renovation of or addition to such existing building includes replacement of toilets or showers or both.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-117. - Exemptions.
(a)
New construction and the repair or renovation of an existing building shall be exempt from the requirements of sections 5-114, 5-115 and 5-116 when:
(1)
The repair or renovation of the existing building does not include the replacement of the plumbing or sewage system servicing toilets, faucets or showerheads within such existing buildings; or
(2)
Such plumbing or sewage system within such existing building, because of its capacity, design or installation, would not function properly if the toilets, faucets or showerheads required by this article were installed; or
(3)
Such system is a well or gravity flow from a spring and is owned privately by an individual for use in such individual's personal residence; or
(4)
Units to be installed are:
a.
Specifically designed for use by the handicapped;
b.
Specifically designed to withstand unusual abuse or installation in a penal institution; or
c.
Toilets for juveniles.
(b)
The owner, or his agent, of a building undergoing new construction or repair or renovation who is entitled to an exemption as specified in subsection (a)(2), (3) or (4) of this section shall obtain the exemption by applying at the office of the county building inspector. A fee of $30.00 shall be charged for the inspection and issuance of such exemption.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-118. - Enforcement; penalty.
This article shall be enforced by the office of the county building inspector. Citations for violations may be issued by the chief building inspector of the county.
Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity violating this article shall be tried before the county magistrate. Upon conviction, a violation of this article may be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. of 10-8-91)
Sec. 5-119. - Reserved.
