Chapter 34 - PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT[1]
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 34-1. - Amendment to comprehensive plan.
The board of commissioners adopts the amendment to the 2015 Echols County Comprehensive Plan and transmit notification to the South Georgia Regional Development Center and the state department of community affairs for certification of completion.
(Res. of 6-5-2000)
Sec. 34-2. - Housing authority.
A housing authority shall be established to function in the county. Such housing authority shall be known as the Housing Authority of Echols County, Georgia.
(Res. of 4-2-1979)
Secs. 34-3—34-60. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SOUTH REGIONAL JOINT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY[2]

Sec. 34-61. - Authority to create.
Two or more counties located in the state may, pursuant to the Development Authorities Law (1963 Ga. Laws, page 531, § 1; 1969 Ga. Laws, page 137, § 1), create a joint authority.
(Res. of 11-19-1998)
Sec. 34-62. - Creation.
On March 31, 1995, the Board of Commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia, and the Board of Commissioners of Lanier County, Georgia, each determined that it was in the best interests of the residents of the counties governed by each to create a joint authority for the purpose of developing, promoting and enhancing economic development and employment in both counties.
(Res. of 11-19-1998)
Sec. 34-63. - Joint authority.
The Boards of Commissioners of Lowndes County and Lanier County, Georgia, signed a joint resolution creating a joint authority known as the Lowndes County and Lanier County Development Authority which was activated on March 31, 1995, and was to be governed by O.C.G.A. tit. 36, ch. 62 in the same manner as other authorities created pursuant thereto, except as specifically provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-62-5.1.
(Res. of 11-19-1998)
Sec. 34-64. - Inclusion; membership.
(a)
The Board of Commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Lanier County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Echols County, Georgia, have each determined that it is in the best interests of the residents of each county governed by these commissions to expand the joint authority formerly created by Lowndes County and Lanier County to also include the counties of Berrien County, Georgia, Echols County, Georgia, Clinch County, Georgia, Brooks County, Georgia and Cook County, Georgia.
(b)
The authority created and activated under this article by the former action of Lowndes County, Georgia, and Lanier County, Georgia, is, by the resolution stated in section 34-63, amended and supplemented to include Berrien County, Georgia, Echols County, Georgia, Clinch County, Georgia, Brooks County, Georgia, and Cook County, Georgia. The joint authority shall be known as the South Regional Joint Development Authority. The amended joint authority shall consist of 15 members who are residents of either Lowndes County, Georgia, Lanier County, Georgia, Berrien County, Georgia, Echols County, Georgia, Clinch County, Georgia, Brooks County, Georgia, or Cook County, Georgia as follows: Two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia; two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Lanier County, Georgia; two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County, Georgia; two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Echols County, Georgia; two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissions of Clinch County, Georgia; two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Brooks County, Georgia; and two members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Georgia; and the fifteenth member shall be appointed by the concurrent action of the Board of Commissioners of each member county. The respective terms of the members shall begin as follows:
(1)
The first member appointed by the board of commissioners of each county shall be appointed for a term of two years.
(2)
The second member appointed by the board of commissioners of each county shall be appointed for a term of three years.
(3)
The member appointed by the joint action of the board of commissioners from each county shall be appointed for a term of three years.
Thereafter, upon expiration of such terms, successors shall be appointed for a term of three years by the political body who appointed the member whose term is expiring. All members who have served on the authority shall be eligible for reappointment to succeed themselves if they are reappointed by said political subdivision and any member not replaced at the end of his or her term shall continue to serve until such time as the county appointing him or her has acted to replace him or her. Should any member resign, or be unable to serve, or move beyond the boundaries of the county appointing such member, his or her successor shall be appointed to serve his or her remaining term by the political subdivision who originally appointed the member being removed.
(Res. of 11-19-1998; Res. of 9-12-2005)
Sec. 34-65. - Adoption.
The resolution stated in section 34-63 was adopted by the joint action of the Board of Commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Lanier County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County, Georgia, and the Board of Commissioners of Echols County, Georgia, during their respective monthly meeting as is set out by the chairman's signature for each respective county.
The amendments to the above-mentioned resolution were adopted by the joint action of the Board of Commissioners of Lowndes County, Georgia, Board of Commissioners of Lanier County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Berrien County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Echols County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Clinch County, Georgia, the Board of Commissioners of Brooks County, Georgia, and the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, Georgia during their respective monthly meeting as is set out by the chairman's signature for each respective county.
(Res. of 11-19-1998; Res. of 9-12-2008)
Secs. 34-66—34-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COASTAL PLAINS AREA PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION

Sec. 34-101. - Findings.
The following findings apply pursuant to this article:
(1)
It appears to be advantageous to the welfare of the county that a comprehensive and continuous planning program be undertaken.
(2)
The county commissioners of roads and revenues need an area planning commission to assist in guiding and accomplishing a coordinated and harmonious development of the county and the coastal plains of the state which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote public health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development.
(Res. of 6-3-1963)
Sec. 34-102. - Establishment.
The county commissioners of roads and revenue, in cooperation with the governing authorities of other area counties and municipalities, establish the coastal plains area planning and development commission to be governed by the provisions of this article.
(Res. of 6-3-1963)
Sec. 34-103. - Membership.
The coastal plains area planning and development commission shall consist of two members from each of the counties participating in the area planning commission. Of the two members from each county, one shall be appointed by the governing authority of the municipality wherein the county is located (or by the governing authorities of participating municipalities within such county) and the other shall be appointed by the governing authority of such county, except in a county which does not have an active, incorporated municipality in which case the governing authority of the county shall appoint two members.
(Res. of 6-3-1963, § 1)
Sec. 34-104. - Term of office.
The term of office for all members of the coastal plains area planning and development commission shall be five years, except that the initial appointments by the county shall be for terms of four years and three years. Any vacancy in membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by the governing authority making the appointment which has become vacant. The appointing authority shall also have the power to remove any member it may appoint for cause, on written charges, after public hearing. All members shall serve without compensation.
(Res. of 6-3-1963, § 2)
Sec. 34-105. - Organization, rules, staff and finances.
The coastal plains area planning and development commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its appointive members. The terms of office of the chairman and vice-chairman shall be for one year or until reelected or until their successors are elected. The commission shall appoint a secretary who may be an employee of the commission. The commission shall meet at least once each month at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the chairman or board may determine, shall adopt rules for the transaction of business, and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, fundings, and determinations, which record shall be public record. The commission may appoint such employees and staff as it may deem necessary for its work. In the performance of its duties, the planning commission may cooperate with, contract with, or accept funds from federal, state, or local public or semipublic agencies or private individuals or corporations, may spend such funds, and may carry out such cooperative undertakings and contracts. It may make expenditures for the purchase of required equipment and supplies. The expenditures for the commission, exclusive of gifts to the commission and contract receipts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the participating governing authorities.
(Res. of 6-3-1963, § 3)
Sec. 34-106. - Powers and duties.
It shall be the function and duty of the coastal plains area planning and development commission to make such careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future developments and to prepare such plans for physical, social, and economic growth as will best promote the public health, safety, morals, convenience, prosperity, or the general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the entire coastal plains area of the state and each political subdivision therein. In general, the commission shall have such powers and duties and responsibilities as set forth in state law.
(Res. of 6-3-1963, § 4)
