Chapter 101 - AIRPORT ZONING

Sec. 101-1. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Douglas Municipal Airport Zoning Ordinance."
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-151; Ord. No. 111307 , § I, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-2. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Airport means Douglas Municipal Airport.
Airport elevation means 257 feet above mean sea level.
Approach surface means a surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in section 101-4.
Approach, transitional, horizontal, and conical zones are set forth in section 101-3.
Board of appeals means a board consisting of three members appointed by the city council as provided in chapter 111, article XIII. For appeals pertaining to this chapter, the board of appeals shall be supplemented by the appointment of one member of the airport commission to serve as an ex officio member.
Community development director means the director of the community development department of the city or his designee.
Conical surface means a surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
Hazard to air navigation means an obstruction determined to have a substantial adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
Height. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
Horizontal surface means a horizontal plane 150 feet above the established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plane coincides with the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
Nonconforming use means any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an amendment thereto.
Nonprecision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
Obstruction means any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section 101-4.
Person means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
Precision instrument runway means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS) or a Precision Approach Radar (PAR). The term "precision instrument runway" also means a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout or any other planning document.
Primary surface means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway; for military runways or when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in section 101-3. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
Runway means a defined area on an airport prepared for landing and take-off of aircraft along its length.
Structure means an object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks, earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
Transitional surfaces means surfaces which extend outward at 90 degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surfaces, which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach surface and at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
Tree means any object of natural growth.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-152; Ord. No. 111307 , § II, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-3. - Airport zones.
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are hereby created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to Douglas Municipal Airport. Such zones are shown on Douglas Municipal Airport Zoning Map, consisting of four sheets, prepared under the direction of the community development department, and dated October, 2007, which is attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived and made a part hereof. An area located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
(1)
Nonprecision instrument runway approach zone with a visibility minimum as low as three-fourths mile. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(2)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
(3)
Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath the transitional surfaces.
(4)
Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of 5,000 feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and 10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
(5)
Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-153; Ord. No. 111307 , § III, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-4. - Airport zone height limitations.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit herein established for such zone. Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of the zones in question as follows:
(1)
Runway larger than utility nonprecision instrument runway approach zone with a visibility minimum as low as three-fourths mile. Slopes 34 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(2)
Precision instrument runway approach zone. Slopes 50 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
(3)
Transitional zones. Slope seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation which is 407 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are established height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90 degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
(4)
Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport elevation or at a height of 407 feet above mean sea level.
(5)
Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending to a height of 407 feet above the airport elevation.
(6)
Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-154; Ord. No. 111307 , § IV, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-5. - Use restrictions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of land or water within any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, take-off, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-155; Ord. No. 111307 , § V, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-6. - Nonconforming uses.
(a)
Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, and is diligently prosecuted.
(b)
Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the airport manager, airport commission, community development director, or the Federal Aviation Administration to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the city.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-156; Ord. No. 111307 , § VI, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-7. - Permits.
(a)
Future uses.
(1)
Except as specifically provided in subsections (a)(1)a through c of this section, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been approved in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.
a.
In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
b.
In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zones.
c.
In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition zones.
(2)
Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree in excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter except as set forth in section 101-4(6).
(b)
Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an obstruction or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
(c)
Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the community development director determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned or more than 80 percent torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
(d)
Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the board of appeals for a variance from such regulations. The application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted, will not be contrary to the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter. Additionally, no application for variance to the requirements of this chapter may be considered by the board of appeals unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the airport manager, airport commission, and community development director for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the airport manager, airport commission, or community development director does not respond to the application within 15 days after receipt, the board of appeals may act on its own to grant or deny said application.
(e)
Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this chapter and is reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the board of appeals, this condition may be modified to require the owner to permit the city, at its own expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-157; Ord. No. 111307 , § VII, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-8. - Enforcement.
It shall be the duty of the community development director to administer and enforce the regulations prescribed herein. Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the community development director upon a form published for that purpose. Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the community development director shall be promptly considered and granted or denied. Application for action by the board of appeals shall be forthwith transmitted by the community development director.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-158; Ord. No. 111307 , § VIII, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-9. - Appeals.
(a)
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the community development director made in the administration of this chapter, may appeal to the board of appeals.
(b)
All appeals hereunder must be taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board of appeals, by filing with the community development director a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The community development director shall forthwith transmit to the board of appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(c)
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the community development director certifies to the board of appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the opinion of the community development director, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by the order of the board of appeals on notice to the community development director and on due cause shown.
(d)
The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(e)
The board of appeals may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-159; Ord. No. 111307 , § IX, 11-13-2007)
Sec. 101-10. - Conflicting regulations.
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict is with respect to the height of structures or trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Code 1993, pt. II, § 18-161; Ord. No. 111307 , § XI, 11-13-2007)
