ARTICLE III. - EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 4-129. - Duty of license holder to file employee list.
It shall be the duty of all holders of licenses issued pursuant to this article to file with the clerk a list of the home addresses, telephone numbers, and places of employment of any employees, resident managers, or other agents who will be working in or on the licensed premises. Changes in the list of employees, with names of new employees, shall be submitted to the clerk within three business days of said changes. Any new employees or other agents of the licensee shall be subject to the investigative requirements of this Code regarding background checks and fingerprinting.
Sec. 4-130. - Employment of minors; entering licensed premises.
(a)
Employment prohibited; exceptions. No licensee shall allow or require a person in the licensee's employment under the age required by state law to dispense, serve, sell or take order for any alcoholic beverage; provided, however, the provisions of this section shall not prohibit persons under the age required by state law who are employed in supermarkets, convenience stores, breweries or drug stores from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(b)
Prohibited entry; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any licensee or licensee's agent or employee to allow any person who is not authorized by law to purchase, possess or consume alcoholic beverages to enter a licensed premises; provided, however, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to restaurants, convenience stores, drugstores, or supermarkets.
State law reference— Persons under 18 years not allowed to serve, sell, or take orders for alcoholic beverages, O.C.G.A. § 3-3-24.
Secs. 4-131—4-158. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - IDENTIFICATION CARDS

Sec. 4-159. - Employee identification cards required.
Any person, including the licensee, who works in a business with a license issued pursuant to this chapter permitting the sale of sale of alcoholic beverages at retail shall apply to the police department for an employee identification card, which shall be renewable annually. No licensee under the provisions of this article shall hire any person, nor shall any person work or assist in the licensed premises until such person has procured an employee identification card.
Sec. 4-160. - Term; fees.
Identification cards shall expire on December 31 of each year. Written application for renewals shall be submitted on or before November 15 of each year together with license, administrative and investigative fees. Renewal applications submitted after November 15 shall be subject to a late fee. Fees for initial cards, renewal cards, replacement cards and late fees shall be in the amounts stated in the town fee schedule.
Sec. 4-161. - Identification to be carried on the person while on duty.
While on duty on the licensed premises, every person required to hold an employee identification card under this division shall have his employee identification card on his person at all times.
Sec. 4-162. - Responsibility of employee to submit for processing.
Employees required to have an identification card pursuant to this division shall make themselves available for photographing, fingerprinting and such other investigation as may be required by the police department in carrying out its duties under this division.
Sec. 4-163. - Investigation; qualifications.
(a)
Prior to issuance of an employee identification card, the police department shall investigate the employee applicants.
(b)
An employee identification card shall not be issued to any person who has pled guilty to, or has been convicted of, a felony within the last five years.
(c)
The police department shall report any other detrimental information about an applicant that would tend to affect their qualifications or ability to perform the functions of an employee in the licensed premises to the town council, and may prohibit the issuance of an identification card where the applicant's record indicates such employment would adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare, or violate the law.
Sec. 4-164. - Issuance and revocation of provisional cards.
The police department may provisionally grant an identification card to an applicant, pending investigation and report. Where the report, when reviewed, is unfavorable under the provisions of this division, the police department shall revoke the provisional card and demand its return.
Sec. 4-165. - Revocation of identification card by town council.
Identification cards may be revoked for cause by the town council in the same manner as provided with regard to licenses under this chapter.
Sec. 4-166. - Altering or damaging card prohibited; surrender required upon revocation.
It shall be unlawful for an employee whose card has been revoked, and upon whom demand for surrender of a card has been made, to refuse to so surrender, or to alter, conceal, deface, or destroy the card.
Secs. 4-167—4-185. - Reserved.
