ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 4-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl alcohol or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(2) and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine, or fortified wine as defined in this article.
Beneficial interest shall have the same meaning as used in O.C.G.A. § 3-4-21.
Bona fide eating establishment means any public place selling prepared food for consumption by the public on the premises and deriving at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods.
Brown bag establishment means any restaurant in which the owners or their agents knowingly allow patrons to bring in and consume the patrons' own alcoholic beverages.
Business location or outlet means the location or proposed location of a retail malt beverage or wine outlet.
Distilled spirits shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-1-2(7) and includes any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, all liquors and fortified wines.
Election day means one hour before the polls open until one hour after the polls close on any day set aside for any general or special election for any town, county, state, and/or federal offices, referendum questions, or any other ballot questions.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume, made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any combination of such products in water, containing not more than six percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. The term does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Manufacturer means any maker, producer, distiller, vintner, rectifier, blender, or bottler of any distilled spirits.
Measured means measured by way of the nearest traveled road, street, highway or publicly-owned sidewalk from the front entrance of an outlet authorized to sell beer to the property line of an involved school ground, residential section, church or other prohibited property location. If the measurement crosses a road, street or highway, the measurement shall be at an intersection or authorized crosswalk. The term "measured," as it relates to the distance from the front entrance of such outlet shall be the measurement from the front door of such outlet in a straight line to the nearest road, street, highway or publicly owned sidewalk.
Minor shall be defined pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 3-3-23, as currently enacted or hereafter amended.
Package means a bottle, can, keg, barrel, or other original consumer container.
Person shall have the same meaning as used in O.C.G.A. § 3-4-21.
Premises means the space or area owned, leased and/or controlled by the licensee and used by him for the purpose of operating under the license; except that in the case of hotels and motels, "premises" includes only the portion of the property where alcoholic beverages are sold. The term "premises" is further defined as one physically identifiable place of business consisting of one room. or two or more contiguous rooms operating under the same trade name, where alcoholic beverages are sold. Any premises that cannot be determined as one identifiable place of business shall require additional licenses regardless of such establishment having the same trade name, ownership, or management.
Proper identification means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person, such person's photograph or both, and giving such person's date of birth, including, but not limited to, a passport, military identification card, driver's license, or identification card authorized under an act to require the state department of public safety to issue identification cards to persons with disabilities who do not have a motor vehicle driver's license. The term "proper identification" does not include a birth certificate.
Residence means the act or fact of living or regularly staying at or in some place for the discharge of a duty or the enjoyment of a benefit or the place where one actually lives as distinguished from his domicile or place of temporary sojourn.
Retail dealer means any person who sells distilled spirits in unbroken packages at retail only to consumers and not for resale. Retail dealer shall be synonymous with package sale license holder.
Town means the town, its council, agents, employees, designees, and other representatives.
Wholesaler or wholesale dealer means any person who sells alcoholic beverages to other wholesale dealers, to retail dealers, or to retail consumption dealers.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. The term includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at that point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
Sec. 4-2. - Adoption of state statutes.
The provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-3-1 regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages and licensure therefor are adopted herein to the extent applicable within the jurisdiction of the town.
Sec. 4-3. - Licensee's responsibility regarding this article.
Each holder of a license issued pursuant to this article shall keep a copy of this article in the licensed premises, be familiar with the terms hereof, and instruct any agent, employee, or other representative working there with regard to same. The licensee shall be responsible for any acts of such agents, employees, or representatives in violation of this article, the laws of the state, or the rules and regulations of the state revenue councilor.
Sec. 4-4. - Closure of business by law enforcement.
The chief of police, or his designee, may immediately close an establishment licensed under this chapter in case of emergency, for safety of the public, or to investigate a crime. The period of closure shall not exceed 72 hours without the right for an emergency hearing before the municipal court concerning the circumstances surrounding the emergency closure, and reasons for its continuation, or termination of closure.
Secs. 4-5—4-26. - Reserved.
