ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
FOOTNOTE(S):
(5) State Law reference— General authority of municipalities, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-1 et seq., O.C.G.A. § 36-35-1 et seq.; liability of municipal corporations, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-1 et seq.; limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; authority to provide for, regulate, etc., officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-2; liability of municipality for acts of officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-3; personal liability of municipal officers, O.C.G.A. § 36-33-4; local government officers and employees not subject to liability for torts involving use of government vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 36-92-3; fixing of salaries of municipal employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4; training of members of municipal governing authorities, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-04; local referenda for abolishing local offices or shortening or lengthening term, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-11; authority to provide compensation and employee benefits to municipal officers and employees, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-4.
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-138. - Adoption of personnel policies.
The mayor and council has adopted the Mount Airy Personnel Manual which provides rules, regulations, and policies consistent with the town's Charter concerning the method of employee selection and probationary periods of employment; the administration of a position classification and pay plan, and methods of promotion and transfer within the classification plan; hours of work, vacation, sick leave and other leaves of absence, overtime pay, and rules governing layoffs or similar reductions in force; such dismissal hearings as due process may require; and such other personnel policies, regulations, provisions, or notices as were and may be necessary to provide for the adequate and systematic handling of personnel matters. A copy of the manual is available for inspection in the office of the town clerk.
Sec. 2-139. - Retirement benefits.
By ordinance dated July 7, 1980, as subsequently amended from time to time, the town has established a retirement plan for town employees through a joint trust agreement and contract for administration between the town and the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System as provided in O.C.G.A. § 47-5-1 et seq. A copy of the referenced ordinance and the retirement plan and associated agreement and contracts are available for inspection in the office of the town clerk.
Sec. 2-140. - Removal of officers.
The mayor, any councilmember, and any officer appointed by the mayor and town council may be removed from office as provided in the town's Charter or general law. Any elected or appointed officer sought to be removed from office as provided in this section shall have the right of appeal from the decision of the council to the superior court of the county.
Sec. 2-141. - Term of officers appointed by council.
All officers elected or appointed by the town council to fill unexpired terms of mayor or council shall hold office for the remainder of the unexpired term or the next regular election of said officers, whichever occurs first. All other officers elected or appointed by the town council shall hold office one year unless sooner removed for incompetency, bad conduct or some other good cause for removal for which they are legally removed, or unless they resign.
(Code 1947, § 1-33)
Sec. 2-142. - Serving in multiple town offices.
The town clerk, the town police chief, and such other town officials as may be from time to time authorized by the town council, may serve in more than one official town position. A town official holding more than one office shall not be required to post multiple bonds by reason thereof.
Sec. 2-143. - Town manager; interim town manager.
The town has authority to employ a town manager. When the office of town manager is filled, the town manager shall have such duties as are prescribed by the town Charter, by directive of the town council, and by general law. When the office of town manager is vacant, the duties of the position shall be divided between the town clerk and the town police chief in the manner as may be prescribed by the town council from time to time.
Secs. 2-144—2-169. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - MAYOR

Sec. 2-170. - Oath of office.
The mayor, before assuming the duties of his office, shall take the following oath before any officer duly authorized by law to administer oaths: "I, ____________, do solemnly swear that I will well and truly perform the duties of mayor of the Town of Mount Airy to the best of my skill and ability without favor or affection; that I will adopt such measures, rules and regulations as in my judgment shall be best calculated to promote the welfare of the inhabitants of said town, so help me God."
(Code 1947, § 1-5)
State law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq..
Sec. 2-171. - Duties.
The mayor shall be the chief executive of the town and shall have the following duties:
(1)
Presiding at meetings. To preside at all meetings of the town council, but the mayor shall not be allowed to vote at such meetings except in the case of a tie vote by the council on any question;
(2)
Appointment of standing committees. To appoint at the first meeting each year, or as soon thereafter as expedient, standing committees for that year; but the mayor may at any time alter the committees and make such changes as the interest of the town may require;
(3)
Appointment of officers and employees. To appoint, with the advice and consent of the town council, all officers and employees of the town whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for;
(4)
Dismissal, suspension, and discipline of officers and employees. To dismiss, suspend, or discipline for cause, all officers and employees under his control;
(5)
Executing legal documents. To sign and execute all contracts, deeds, and bonds of the town duly authorized by the mayor and council; and
(6)
Other duties. To perform all duties assigned to the mayor in the town Charter or as may be assigned from time to time by the town council.
Sec. 2-172. - Powers of the mayor generally.
The mayor shall have the following powers:
(1)
Rule making. To prescribe such rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to his authority, and to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation of the administrative service by whomever prescribed;
(2)
Investigation. To investigate and to examine or inquire into, either by himself or by any officer or person designated for the purpose by him, the affairs or operation of any department, including the power to employ consultants and professional counsel when so authorized by the council to aid in such investigations examinations, or inquiries;
(3)
Overriding. To set aside any action taken by a department head and to supersede him in the functions of his office;
(4)
Delegation. To direct any department to perform the work for another department, and to authorize any department head or office responsible to him to appoint and remove subordinates serving under such person; and
(5)
Other powers. To exercise such other power and authority that may be conferred on the mayor by the town Charter or otherwise by law.
Sec. 2-173. - Mayor pro tempore.
(a)
The town council shall annually elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem who, during periods of the mayor's absence or disability, shall possess the powers of mayor, but only upon the occurrence of either of the following:
(1)
The specific directive by the mayor to the mayor pro tem authorizing the mayor pro tem to act in the mayor's behalf for a time certain, as specified by the mayor; or
(2)
The unanimous vote of the mayor pro tem and any two additional councilmembers authorizing the mayor pro tem to act in the mayor's behalf for a time certain due to the absence or disability of the mayor, as specified by the unamious vote.
(b)
In either of the events listed in subsection (a) of this section, the town clerk shall be notified of the mayor's absence or disability and the intent to authorize the mayor pro tem to act. The clerk shall be responsible for advising all councilmembers of such events.
Sec. 2-174. - Acting mayor.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor the council may appoint a person duly qualified to serve as mayor until the vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law.
Secs. 2-175—2-201. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - TOWN CLERK

FOOTNOTE(S):
(6) State Law reference— Training for municipal clerks, O.C.G.A. § 36-45-20.
Sec. 2-202. - Appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The town clerk shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the town council for an indefinite term during which the clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the town council. To be eligible to the office of town clerk , a person must be at least 21 years of age. The clerk shall receive such salary as the council may determine and fix for his services.
Sec. 2-203. - Oath of office; bond.
(a)
Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, the town clerk shall take and subscribe the following oath, to wit: "I, ____________, do solemnly swear I will faithfully collect, disburse and account for all monies or other effects of the Town of Mount Airy that may come into my hands as an officer of said town, and otherwise faithfully discharge all the duties required of me by law, the town Charter and all town ordinances as town clerk, so help me God."
(b)
The town clerk shall give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 or such other bond as the mayor and council may require, conditioned to well and truly pay over all monies or other effects that may be received by him from time to time by virtue of his office, and that he will safely deliver to his successor all books, money, vouchers and all other effects whatever belonging to his office, to make a written report to the town council at each regular meeting, and for the discharge of such other duties as may be required of him by law, the town Charter, or any town ordinance, or that may necessarily pertain to his office as town clerk.
(Code 1947, § 1-19)
State law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq.; official bonds, 45-4-1 et seq.; bond of municipal officers holding public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-3.
Sec. 2-204. - General duties of clerk.
In addition to such duties as may be from time to time assigned by the town council, it shall be the duty of the town clerk to do the following:
(1)
Keep and preserve the official town seal and all town records;
(2)
Attend meetings of the mayor and council and keep the official minutes of its proceedings, including the names of members and other parties present and absent, and the vote of each councilmember on each resolution, ordinance, motion, or other official action considered;
(3)
Prepare and certify copies of official records when requested, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance;
(4)
Serve as chief financial officer of the town and work in coordination with the mayor in budget preparation and review and in approving and reviewing purchase requests from department heads;
(5)
Maintain a book or record of registration of franchises granted by the town; and
(6)
Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor and council.
Secs. 2-205—2-231. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - TOWN TREASURER

Sec. 2-232. - Appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The town treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the town council for an indefinite term during which the treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the town council. To be eligible to the office of town treasurer, a person must be at least 21 years of age. The treasurer shall receive such salary as the council may determine and fix for his services. The town clerk will perform the duties of the treasurer in the absence of a treasurer.
Sec. 2-233. - Oath of office; bond.
(a)
Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, the town treasurer shall take and subscribe the following oath, to wit: "I, ____________, do solemnly swear I will faithfully collect, disburse and account for all monies or other effects of the Town of Mount Airy that may come into my hands as an officer of said town, and otherwise faithfully discharge all the duties required of me by law, the town Charter and all town ordinances as town treasurer, so help me God."
(b)
The town treasurer shall give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 or such other bond as the mayor and council may require, conditioned to well and truly pay over all monies or other effects that may be received by him from time to time by virtue of his office, and that he will safely deliver to his successor all books, money, vouchers and all other effects whatever belonging to his office, to make a written report to the town council at each regular meeting, and for the discharge of such other duties as may be required of him by law, the town Charter, or any town ordinance, or that may necessarily pertain to his office as town treasurer.
Secs. 2-234—2-259. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - TOWN ATTORNEY

Sec. 2-260. - Appointment; qualifications; oath; compensation.
The town attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the town council, and shall serve until a successor is appointed and has qualified. No person shall be so appointed, unless he is a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and has been actively engaged in the practice of law for at least three years preceding his appointment. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the town attorney shall take the oath prescribed by this Code for town officers. The town attorney shall receive compensation in the amount established from time to time by the town council.
Sec. 2-261. - Powers and duties.
The town attorney shall have such duties as are provided in the town Charter and as are assigned to him from time to time, consistent with the town Charter and state law, by the town council.
Secs. 2-262—2-285. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - TOWN POLICE CHIEF

FOOTNOTE(S):
(7) State Law reference— Municipality required to declare a chief of police or other head of local law enforcement agency that is a certified peace officer, O.C.G.A. § 35-1-12.
Sec. 2-286. - Appointment.
The town police chief shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the town council for an indefinite term during which the chief shall serve at the pleasure of the town council.
(Code 1947, § 1-20)
Sec. 2-287. - Qualifications.
To be eligible to the office of town police chief, a person must be at least 21 years of age at the time of appointment, and before entering on the discharge of his duty, he must take and subscribe the following oath, to wit: "I, ____________, do swear that I will duly, faithfully and promptly perform all duties imposed on or required of me as town police chief during my continuance in office, according to the best of my ability and understanding, so help me God."
(Code 1947, § 1-20a)
State law reference— Oath of public officers, O.C.G.A. § 45-3-1 et seq..
Sec. 2-288. - Bond.
The police chief shall give bond in the sum of $10,000.00 or such other bond as the mayor and council may require, conditioned to well and truly perform all the duties of the office of police chief and to pay over promptly all monies as collected or otherwise may come into his hands to the treasurer or other officer authorized to receive the same.
(Code 1947, § 1-21)
State law reference— Official bonds, O.C.G.A. § 45-4-1 et seq.; bond of municipal officers holding public funds, O.C.G.A. § 45-8-3.
Sec. 2-289. - Duties.
It shall be the duty of the police chief to:
(1)
Attend the town's court at all times and to execute all warrants or other processes within the town's corporate limits as may be from time to time directed by the town court, and to return all executions, warrants, and other instruments to the court for filing after they have been settled or he has otherwise discharged his function with regard to the court's directive;
(2)
Execute all warrants and other processes within the town's corporate limits as may be from time to time directed by the mayor or council; and to return all executions, warrants, and other instruments to the mayor or council for filing after they have been settled or he has otherwise discharged his function with regard to the council's directive;
(3)
Strictly conform to and obey all instructions he may receive from time to time from the mayor or council;
(4)
Report all violations of town ordinances to the mayor and so swear out all warrants for the offender or offenders;
(5)
Arrest and bring the offenders before the mayor or other officer charged with the duty of trying such offenses in said town, either with or without a warrant;
(6)
Carefully watch after the peace and quiet in the town and use every effort possible to preserve perfect order, quiet and peace in said town at all times and to use every effort possible to detect and apprehend any person or persons violating the ordinances of said town and to see that the ordinances of said town are not violated;
(7)
Superintend in person all hands placed under him to work the streets, alleys, lanes and other public ways of the town in such manner and at such times and places as the council or street committee may direct; and
(8)
Perform all other duties that may be required of him by law, the town Charter, or town ordinances, or that necessarily appertain to his office.
(Code 1947, § 1-21a)
Sec. 2-290. - Vacancy in office; emergency appointment.
In case of removal, death, resignation, or otherwise the office is vacant, the council may appoint a police chief at any regular or called meeting therefor, provided that nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent the mayor from appointing a police chief to answer an emergency, which appointment shall only be for a time as long as the emergency exists or until the council shall appoint a successor.
(Code 1947, § 1-22)
Sec. 2-291. - Compensation.
The police chief shall be paid for his service such salary as the town council may determine and contract to pay. The police chief in no event shall retain money that may be in his hands that has been collected by him or has come into his hands by virtue of or by reason of his office, for the purpose of discharging any indebtedness due him by the town or the town council thereof, but he may pay over money collected by him or that may come into his hands by virtue of his office, or by reason of his office, to the town clerk or town treasurer or other proper officers of the town within three days after the same comes into his hands.
(Code 1947, § 1-23)
Sec. 2-292. - Removal.
The police chief shall be subject to be removed by the mayor or town council for failure to discharge any one or more duties that may be required of him or for the performance of an act unbecoming an upright officer.
(Code 1947, § 1-24)
Sec. 2-293. - Police chief to preserve all property in his hands.
It shall be the duty of the police chief to take care of and preserve all property of the town pertaining to his department or in his charge or care; to protect all other interests of the town committed to his charge or that may come into his hands by virtue of his office; and to turn over to his successor, promptly, all property or effects belonging to the town or that may have come into his hands by virtue of his office.
(Code 1947, § 1-27)
Secs. 2-294—2-320. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - TAX ASSESSOR

Secs. 2-321—2-347. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - TAX COLLECTOR AND RECEIVER

Sec. 2-348. - Clerk and treasurer to serve as tax receiver.
It shall be the duty of the town clerk and treasurer, or either of them as designated by council if the offices are both occupied, to serve as tax receiver in addition to his other duties. The duties of the tax receiver shall be as mandated by the town Charter, as provided by state law, and as prescribed from time to time by the town council.
(Code 1947, § 3-56)
Sec. 2-349. - Clerk and treasurer to serve as tax collector.
It shall be the duty of the town clerk and treasurer, or either of them as designated by the council if both officers are occupied, to serve as tax collector in addition to his other duties. The tax collector shall have such duties as are mandated by the town Charter, provided by state law, or prescribed by the town council from time to time.
(Code 1947, § 3-61)
Sec. 2-350. - Mayor, town clerk, or town treasurer to bid at tax sales.
The mayor, the town clerk, or the town treasurer, or his or their designee, shall represent the town in bidding the amount of tax and cost due for the property being sold for taxes when no one else bids said amount, and shall require the police chief to make the deeds to the town in pursuance of the law governing tax sales and deeds.
(Code 1947, § 3-69)
Sec. 2-351. - Clerk and treasurer to keep a record of tax sales.
It shall be the duty of the town clerk and the town treasurer, or either of them as designated by council in the event both offices are occupied, to prepare and keep a book of record of all property purchased by the town at tax sales showing what and whose property was so purchased, the amount bid by him and what portion of the same was tax and what portion was clerk's and police chief's costs respectively. He shall also file and carefully keep the deeds made by the police chief to the town and the executions attached which shall be delivered to him by the police chief. He shall also file therewith a copy of the newspaper in which any police chief's sales at which the town purchased was advertised.
(Code 1947, § 3-70)
Secs. 2-352—2-375. - Reserved.
