Title 3 - SPECIAL AUTHORITIES AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1. - GAINESVILLE AND HALL COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3.1.1. - Constitutional amendment—Generally.
Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"A. Created. There is hereby created a body corporate and politic in Gainesville and Hall County to be known as the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority, which shall be an instrumentality of Gainesville and Hall County and a public corporation and which in this amendment is hereafter referred to as the `authority';
"B. Members, etc. The authority shall consist of nine members, four to be appointed by the Commissioners of Hall County, four to be appointed by the Council of the City of Gainesville, and one to be elected by the members of the authority for a full four-year term, who shall have control, duties, powers and authority as are hereby conferred and as may be prescribed or provided for by the General Assembly of Georgia, and such additional powers as may be delegated to the authority by the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville. Members of the authority shall be residents of Hall County, within or without the municipality located therein. The first appointments shall be for terms of one, two, three and four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. The General Assembly shall provide for appointment of the authority. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall not be required to be a member of the authority.
"C. Bonds. All debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue bonds or obligations issued by the authority shall have the same immunity from taxation as the obligations and interest on the obligations of Gainesville and Hall County.
"D. Powers. The powers of the authority shall include, but not be limited to, the power:
"(1)
To receive and administer gifts, grants and donations and to administer trusts;
"(2)
To borrow money, to issue notes, bonds and revenue obligations, to execute trust agreements or indentures, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge and assign any and all of its funds, property, contract rights, and income as security therefor;
"(3)
To contract with political subdivisions of the State of Georgia and with private persons and corporations and to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
"(4)
To have and exercise usual powers of private corporations except such as are inconsistent with this amendment, including the power to appoint and hire officers, agents and employees and to provide their compensation and duties, which officers and agents may or may not be members of the authority, and the power to adopt and amend a corporate seal and by laws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
"(5)
To encourage and promote the expansion and development of industrial and commercial facilities in Gainesville and Hall County so as to relieve, insofar as possible, unemployment within its boundaries, and to that end to acquire by purchase or gift any building or structure within the limits of Gainesville and Hall County, suitable for and intended for use as a factory, mill, shop, processing plant, assembly plant or fabricating plant, including all necessary and appurtenant lands and appurtenances thereto, and all necessary or useful furnishings, machinery and equipment. Such acquisition may be through the acquisition of land and the construction thereon of a building, including the demolition of existing structures, or through the acquisition of an existing building and the remodeling, renovating, reconstructing, furnishing and equipping of such building;
"(6)
No building acquired hereunder shall be operated by the authority but shall be leased or sold to one or more persons, firms, or corporations. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due in not more than thirty (30) years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the building or buildings and to pay rentals or installments sufficient, together with other revenues which may be pledged for the purpose, to retire all bonds, both principal and interest, and to pay all other expenses which the authority may have incurred in connection with the undertaking;
"(7)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
"(8)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or in any specific matter;
"(9)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated.
"E. Debt. The authority shall not be authorized to create in any manner any debt, liability or obligation against the State of Georgia or Hall County, or the City of Gainesville.
"F. Members. The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services to the authority.
"G. Bonds. In order to finance any undertaking within the scope of its power or to refund any bonds then outstanding, the authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds bearing rate or rates of interest and maturing at the years and amounts determined by the authority and the procedure of validation, issuance and delivery shall be in all respects in accordance with the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761), as amended, Ga. Code Ann. Supp. Chapter 87-8, as if said obligations had been originally authorized to be issued thereunder; provided, however, that any property, real or personal in existence or anticipated, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered as security for any lawful debt of the authority. The authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture not in conflict with the provisions of this amendment to provide security for any bonds issued as provided herein, and such trust agreements or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or under any term or condition under which such bonds are issued. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to create a right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the City of Gainesville or of Hall County to pay such bonds or the interest thereon nor to enforce payment thereof against any property of the City of Gainesville or Hall County.
"H. Same. The authority may authorize additional bonds, for extensions and permanent improvements to any industrial building acquired hereunder, to be placed in escrow and to be negotiated from time to time as proceeds for that purpose may become necessary. Bonds so placed in escrow shall, when sold and delivered, have such standing with the bonds of the same issue as may be provided in the authorizing proceedings.
"I. Gifts. No moneys derived by the authority from any source other than gifts and contributions from private individuals, firms or corporations shall at any time be used for entertainment, or other promotional expenses.
"J. Property. Should said authority for any reason be dissolved, title to all property of every kind and nature, real and personal, held by the authority at the time of such dissolution shall revert to Gainesville and Hall County, subject to any mortgages, liens, leases or other encumbrances outstanding against or in respect to said property at that time.
"K. Purpose. This amendment is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare industry and trade within Gainesville or Hall County and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent possible, and this amendment and any law enacted with reference to the authority shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of these purposes.
"L. Effective date. This amendment shall be effective immediately upon proclamation of its ratification by the Governor, and the first members of the authority shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after such proclamation.
"M. General assembly. The General Assembly may by law further define and prescribe the powers and duties of the authority and the exercise thereof, and may enlarge and restrict the same, and may likewise further regulate the management and conduct of the authority. The authority shall be an instrumentality of Gainesville and Hall County and the scope of its operations shall be limited to the territory embraced within said city or county. The General Assembly shall not extend the jurisdiction of the authority nor the scope of its operations beyond such limits.
" 1962 Amendment. The provisions of this amendment shall supersede an amendment creating the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority ratified at the November 1962 general election and found in Georgia Laws 1961, p. 600. All actions and proceedings taken under the provisions of any law passed pursuant to the aforesaid amendment are hereby ratified and confirmed in the same manner as if the provisions contained herein had been in effect. The authority created hereunder shall be the successor to the authority created pursuant to the aforesaid amendment and shall succeed to all the powers of the authority created pursuant to the aforesaid amendment and the assets and obligations of such authority shall be the assets and obligations of the authority created herein."
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 866, § 1)
Sec. 3.1.2. - Same—Continued.
That constitutional amendment which was proposed by Resolution Act No. 121 of the 1964 General Assembly and which was duly ratified at the 1964 general election (Ga. L. 1964, p. 866) and which relates to creation of the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority and the powers, duties, and members of the authority shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(1986 Ga. Laws, p. 4328, § 1)
Sec. 3.1.3. - Same—Authority for continuation.
This Act is passed pursuant to Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia which authorizes the continuation of certain amendments to the Constitution.
(1986 Ga. Laws, p. 4328, § 2)
Secs. 3.1.4—3.1.15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - ACT TO CREATE AUTHORITY, ETC.

Sec. 3.1.16. - Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 1)
Sec. 3.1.17. - Created, etc.
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the "Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority" which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation, and by that name, style and title said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. The authority shall consist of nine (9) members who shall be residents of Hall County within or without the corporate limits of the City of Gainesville, and not less than thirty (30) years of age at the time of appointment. In making the nominations and appointments of members of the authority, not more than one member should be selected from any one family, partnership, or other business organization. The members shall be selected in the following manner: Immediately after the approval of this Act the directors of the Gainesville-Hall County Chamber of Commerce shall select and nominate persons for appointment and submit eight or more names to the county and eight or more names to the city. From such lists of nominees the council of the City of Gainesville and the commissioners of Hall County each shall appoint four members of the authority. The eight appointed members shall select a ninth member to serve a full term. For the first appointments the county and the city shall each appoint one person for one year, one for two years, one for three years, and one for four years. Thereafter all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four years. In the event any vacancy occurs in the county group, the county shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In the event a vacancy occurs in the city group, the city shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term the city and county shall request two nominations for each member to be appointed from the directors of the Chamber of Commerce. The governing authorities of the County of Hall and/or the City of Gainesville may, in their discretion, request the directors of the Chamber of Commerce to submit additional names before making the first appointments or any subsequent appointment to the membership of the authority. If no nomination is made within ten days after such request, the appointment shall be made without any nomination. A member who has served a full four-year term shall not be eligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year after the expiration of his four-year term. The authority shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman and a secretary-treasurer, or a secretary and a treasurer. Neither the secretary nor the treasurer shall be required to be a member of the authority. One city council member selected by the city council and one county commissioner selected by the county commissioners shall be the ex-officio members of the authority. The members of the authority shall be entitled to no compensation. However, all members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 2)
Sec. 3.1.18. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
(a)
—The word "authority" shall mean the "Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority" created by this Act and by and under Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
"(b)
[—]The word `project' shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition of lands, properties, and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry, commerce, agriculture, natural resources and vocational training; the construction of buildings and plants for the purpose of selling, leasing or renting such structures to private persons, firms or corporations. The word `project' shall also mean and include the acquisition, development and management of a site or sites deemed suitable for an industrial park or parks. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term `development' shall include making provision for water, sewage, drainage, transportation, power, communication and/or similar facilities which are incidental to the use of a site as the industrial park."
(c)
—The term "cost of project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, easements, rights and franchises acquired, the cost of machinery and equipment, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural and legal expense, and plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, the construction of any project and placing the same in operation.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 3; 1978 Ga. Laws, p. 3579, § 1)
Sec. 3.1.19. - Contracts.
The County of Hall and the City of Gainesville are expressly authorized to enter into contracts with the authority as a public corporation.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 4)
Sec. 3.1.20. - Quorum, etc.
Any five members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary business of the authority; however, any action with respect to any project of the authority must be approved by not less than five affirmative votes.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 5)
Sec. 3.1.21. - Powers.
The authority shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.
(b)
To acquire, hold and dispose of personal property, including the stock of other corporations, for its corporate purposes.
(c)
To enter into contracts with the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville.
(d)
To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions, and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or liens or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or dispose of same in any manner the authority deems to its best advantage. If the authority shall deem it expedient to construct any project or use any project already constructed on lands, the title to which shall then be in the County of Hall or the City of Gainesville, the governing authorities of Hall County and the City of Gainesville are authorized in their discretion to convey title to such lands, including any improvements thereon, to the authority.
(e)
To appoint and select officers, agents, and employees including engineers, architects, builders, and attorneys, and to fix their compensation.
(f)
To make contracts, and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases and rentals and sales of projects, or contracts with respect to the use of projects, which it erects or acquires. The County of Hall and the City of Gainesville are hereby expressly authorized and empowered to enter into agreements with the authority for use by the authority of funds collected by special tax levies by the county and city for development purposes.
(g)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, self-liquidating or otherwise, located on property owned or leased by the authority, and to pay the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue anticipation certificates of the authority or from any grant from the County of Hall or City of Gainesville, or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms, or corporations, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use.
(h)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute notes, mortgages, deeds to secure debt, trust deeds and such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to evidence and secure such borrowing.
(i)
To exercise any power granted by the laws of the State of Georgia to public or private corporations, performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia.
(j)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly conferred by this Act.
(k)
To adopt, alter or repeal its own by-laws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be transacted and in which the power granted to it may be enjoyed, as the authority may deem necessary or expedient in facilitating its business.
(l)
To issue revenue anticipation certificates for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any project of the authority. Such revenue anticipation certificates shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Act of the General Assembly of 1937, (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761—774), and as subsequently amended, providing for the issuance of revenue anticipation certificates.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 6)
Sec. 3.1.22. - Bonds.
All debentures, notes, bonds, and revenue anticipation certificates issued by the authority shall be exempt from state and local taxation.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 7)
Sec. 3.1.23. - Debts.
The authority shall not be empowered or authorized in any manner to create a debt as against the State of Georgia, the County of Hall or the City of Gainesville.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 8)
Sec. 3.1.24. - Audits.
The books and records of the authority shall be audited at least annually, at the expense of the authority, by a competent auditor. The authority shall furnish copies of said audit to the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 9)
Sec. 3.1.25. - Intent.
This Act being for the purpose of developing and promoting the public good and the welfare of the County of Hall and the City of Gainesville and their inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 10)
Sec. 3.1.26. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions.
(1964 Ga. Laws, p. 2282, § 11)
Secs. 3.1.27—3.1.40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 3. - ADDITIONAL POWERS

Sec. 3.1.41. - Established.
For purposes of this Act, The Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority is that authority established pursuant to a resolution amending Article VII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945, which resolution appears in (Ga. Laws 1964, p. 866 et seq.), which resolution was ratified at the General Election of November 3, 1964, and which resolution was continued as part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1976. This Act is based upon those powers granted by subsection M of Section 1 of said resolution.
(1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4300, § 1)
Sec. 3.1.42. - Powers.
In addition to any other powers granted to The Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority and without limiting any such powers, said authority is hereby granted all powers granted to the authorities under the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969 (Ga. Laws 1969, p. 137 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4300, § 2)
Sec. 3.1.43. - Projects which may be undertaken.
In addition to any other projects regarding which The Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority may exercise its powers and duties and without limiting any such projects, such powers and duties may also be exercised regarding any "project" and "cost of project" as defined in the Development Authorities Law, approved March 28, 1969 (Ga. Laws 1969, p. 137 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
(1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4300, § 3)
CHAPTER 2. - GAINESVILLE REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 3.2.1. - Constitutional amendment—Generally.
Article IX, Section VIII, Paragraph I of the Constitution is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph at the end thereof to read as follows:
"Subject to the conditions and limitations specified by local law, the General Assembly may create a Gainesville Redevelopment Authority to assist and promote the economic development and redevelopment of those areas of the City of Gainesville selected by the authority for development, redevelopment, or other improvement. In addition to such other powers as may be specified by law, the authority may: (1) issue revenue bonds, notes, bonds, or revenue certificates; (2) pledge for the retirement of the indebtedness revenues or taxes levied by the City of Gainesville for the purposes of the authority within one or more tax districts, provided each such tax district is located within the central business district of the City of Gainesville; (3) acquire, own, operate, and dispose of real and personal property and construct or remodel same; (4) finance commercial, office, retail, wholesale, restaurant, recreational, hotel, motel, parking, and transportation projects for private enterprise and finance utilities, streets, parks, and public improvements of all kinds for public or private use; and (5) contract with any municipality, county, political subdivision, authority, or other public or private corporation for periods of less than 50 years. The authority may not: (1) exercise the power of eminent domain; (2) engage in an undertaking or undertakings or in a project or projects requiring capital expenditures until a resolution approving same has been adopted by a majority vote of the members of the governing authority of the City of Gainesville attending a regular or special meeting of the governing authority at which a majority of the members of the governing authority is present; or (3) purchase or acquire land or facilities for lease, sale, other conveyance to an industry for any purpose, except that the authority may purchase, acquire, or develop property or facilities to be sold, leased, or conveyed for industrial use if: (a) the industrial use of the property or facility, or a portion thereof, is incidental to a project or undertaking of the authority that is principally devoted to the exercise of its powers used to serve its otherwise authorized purpose; or (b) the governing authority of the City of Gainesville passes a resolution at a regular or special session, with a quorum being present and a majority of those present voting in the affirmative, that such a facility or property is appropriate for development by the authority because the facility or property should be coordinated with, or developed in conjunction with, or as a part of, a project or undertaking which the authority is otherwise authorized to undertake. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, an industrial use is `incidental' to a project or undertaking if the total capital cost of the property or facility to be utilized for industrial purposes total capital cost does not exceed 25 percent of the total capital cost of the project or undertaking. Until amended or otherwise changed by the General Assembly, the provisions of an Act creating the Gainesville Redevelopment Authority, approved March 24, 1978 (Ga. Laws 1978, p. 4440), are hereby ratified and continued, except to the extent in conflict with the provisions of this paragraph and except that the General Assembly may not remove or reduce any power of the authority as specified in the Act."
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 2024, § 1)
Sec. 3.2.2. - Same—Continued.
That constitutional amendment authorizing the creation of a Gainesville Redevelopment Authority, providing for powers and limitations, and permitting the issuance of certain bonds (Resolution Act No. 155; Senate Resolution 248; Ga. L. 1980, p. 2024) shall not be repealed or deleted on July 1, 1987, as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia but is specifically continued in force and effect on and after that date as a part of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(1987 Ga. Laws, p. 3637, § 1)
Sec. 3.2.3. - Same—Authority for continuation.
This Act is passed pursuant to Article XI, Section I, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia which authorizes the continuation of certain amendments to the Constitution.
(1987 Ga. Laws, p. 3637, § 2)
Secs. 3.2.4—3.2.15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - ACT TO CREATE AUTHORITY, ETC.

Sec. 3.2.16. - Creation of authority.
There is hereby created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Gainesville Redevelopment Authority which shall be an instrumentality and a public corporation of the State of Georgia. By that name, style, and title said authority may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 1)
Sec. 3.2.17. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the meaning set forth hereinbelow:
(a)
The term "authority" means the authority created by this Act.
(b)
The term "member" means a member of the authority established by this Act.
(c)
The term "project" means any undertaking of the authority in connection with the redevelopment, revitalization or development of urban, central city or other areas within the project areas. "Project" shall also include the acquisition, leasing, maintenance, construction, improvement or modification of any property, real or personal, which is suitable for, used for, or in connection with the redevelopment, development or revitalization of the central business district of Gainesville, Georgia. The term "project" shall not be limited to the foregoing, but shall include those undertakings or combination thereof which are permitted by its purposes and powers as hereinafter set forth.
(d)
The term "undertaking" shall specifically include those revenue-producing undertakings or combination thereof contained in Georgia Code Annotated Section 87-802(a), as it now exists or is hereinafter amended; provided, however, at no time either by this Act or an amendment hereof shall the term "undertaking" include those undertakings or combinations thereof relating to the purchase or other acquisition of facilities for lease, sale or other conveyance to industries or as contained in subparagraph (11) of Georgia Code Annotated Section 87-802(a), which states:
"The purchase of land and the construction thereon of facilities for lease to industries so as to relieve abnormal unemployment conditions"
because the acquisition of lands, properties and improvements for development, expansion and promotion of industry is encompassed within the term "project" as it relates to legislation pertaining to the Gainesville and Hall County Development Authority, as it now exists or is hereinafter amended.
Projects of the authority requiring capital expenditures must have prior approval of a majority of the Gainesville City Council Members meeting at a regular or special meeting thereof.
(e)
The term "project areas" means those urban, central city, or other areas within the city limits of Gainesville, Georgia, selected by the authority for redevelopment, development or improvement pursuant to the authorization and provisions set forth in this Act.
(f)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the authority's title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of preparing the land, including the installation of storm and sanitary sewers and all utilities therefor, the cost of all machinery, equipment and furnishings related to the operation of any project or projects, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for six months after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses and other expenses necessary and incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized and the cost of placing any project in operation. Any expenses incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as part of the "cost of the project or projects" and may be paid or reimbursed out of funds of the authority, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under provisions of this Act for such project or projects.
(g)
The terms "revenue bonds" and "bonds" shall mean any bonds of the authority which are hereunder authorized to be issued, including refunding bonds, as though such revenue bonds had originally been authorized to be issued under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761, et seq.), as amended, and in addition shall also mean any obligations of the authority, the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for.
(h)
Any project or combination of projects shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority the revenues and earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom, including but not limited to, any revenues derived from Hall County, the United States of America, or the City of Gainesville, Georgia, under any contracts with the authority, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating and maintaining the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project, projects, or combination thereof.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 2)
Sec. 3.2.18. - Purposes of authority.
(a)
It is hereby determined, declared and established that the creation of the authority and the implementation of the corporate purposes set forth in this Act is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and that the authority is an institution of purely public charity and it is further declared that the revitalization and redevelopment of the project areas is a proper public purpose and this Act is adopted for the purpose of promoting and expanding for the public good and welfare the public facilities of said areas and any and all other facilities useful or desirable in connection therewith, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, with the right to contract for the use of or to lease or sell any or all of such facilities, including real property, and to do any and all things deemed by the authority necessary, convenient or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development, revitalization, modernization, and operation therefor.
(b)
It is further found, determined, and declared that all property of said authority is hereby declared and shall in all respects be considered to be public property and title to such property shall be held by the authority only for the benefit of the public, and the use of such property pursuant to the terms of this Act shall be and is hereby declared to be for public or governmental purposes, that is, for the promotion of the general public welfare in matters of cultural development, education, pleasure, convenience and recreation of the public at large, in an effort to better the general condition of society, or that considerable part of society residing in Gainesville, Georgia, which promotion is hereby declared to be a public benefit for the good of humanity and for the general improvement and happiness of society, and all the property, income, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the authority and the transfer thereof shall be and hereby are declared to be nontaxable for any and all purposes.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 3)
Sec. 3.2.19. - Composition and organization of authority.
modified
(a)
The authority shall consist of nine (9) members who shall be either residents of the City of Gainesville, operate, manage, or work for a business within the City of Gainesville, or own real property within the City of Gainesville. In making the appointments of members of the authority, not more than one (1) member should be selected from any one (1) family, partnership, or other business organization. Within thirty (30) days of the effective date of this Act, the city council of the City of Gainesville shall appoint eight (8) members. The eight (8) appointed members shall select a ninth member to serve a full term. For the initial appointments, the city shall appoint two (2) persons for one (1) year, two (2) for two (2) years, two (2) for (3) three years, and two (2) for four (4) years. The ninth member appointed by the initial eight (8) members shall serve for a term of four (4) years. Thereafter, all terms and appointments, except in case of a vacancy, shall be for four (4) years. In the event a vacancy occurs, the city shall fill by appointment such vacancy for the unexpired term. In making any appointment for a vacancy or after the expiration of a term, the city shall request two (2) nominations for each member to be appointed from the authority. The governing authority of the City of Gainesville may, in its discretion, request the authority to submit additional names before making any appointment to the membership of the Authority. If no nomination is made within fourteen (14) days after such request, the appointment shall be made without any nomination. A member who has served a full four-year term shall not be eligible for reappointment until the lapse of one (1) year after the expiration of his or her four-year term.
(b)
In addition, the Authority shall have one (1) ex officio member. The ex officio member shall be the mayor of the City of Gainesville or another council member designated by the mayor. The ex officio member shall serve in an advisory capacity only and shall have no voting authority.
(c)
The members of the Authority shall organize and enter upon the performance of their duties immediately after their appointment as provided in this section.
(d)
The authority shall elect one (1) of its members as chairman and one (1) as vice-chairman and shall elect a secretary-treasurer or a secretary and a treasurer, who may but need not necessarily hold membership on the authority.
(e)
Five (5) members of the authority shall constitute a quorum, and no vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority at every meeting, and in every instance a majority vote of a quorum shall authorize any legal act of the authority, including all things necessary to authorize and issue revenue bonds.
(f)
The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services, but may be reimbursed by the authority for their actual expenses properly incurred in the performance of their duties. Each member of the authority shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been appointed. The authority shall make rules, bylaws, and regulations for its own government and may retain, employ, and engage professional and technical supervisors, assistants, and experts and other agents and employees, temporary and permanent, as it may require. The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees, and the authority shall keep suitable books and records of all its obligations, contracts, transactions, and undertakings and of all income and receipts of every nature and all expenditures of every kind.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 4; HB 801, § 4, 5-11-09)
Sec. 3.2.20. - Powers of the authority.
The authority shall have all of the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions set forth in this Act including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power:
(a)
To sue and be sued;
(b)
To adopt and amend a corporate seal at pleasure;
(c)
To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to contract with any departments, institutions, agencies, counties, municipalities or political subdivisions of the State of Georgia, public corporations and with private legal entities and others upon such terms and for such purposes as may be deemed advisable for a term not exceeding fifty years; any such municipalities or political subdivision shall have and hereby is given the right and power to make such contracts, and all payments contracted to be paid by the municipalities or political subdivision to the authority under such contract or contracts entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall constitute general obligations of the municipality or political subdivision for the payment of which the full faith and credit of such municipality or political subdivision shall be and the same hereby is pledged to provide the funds required to fulfill all obligations arising under any such contract; and any such municipality or political subdivision which shall have entered into such a contract pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall annually in each and every fiscal year during the term of such contract include in a general revenue or appropriation measure, whether or not any other items are included, sums sufficient to satisfy the payments required to be made in each year by such contract until all payments required under such contract have been paid in full, and such revenues shall be and hereby are unconditionally obligated to the payment of such sums. In the event for any reason any such provision or appropriation is not made, then the fiscal officers of such municipality or political subdivision are hereby authorized and directed to set up as an appropriation on their accounts in each fiscal year the amounts required to pay the obligations called for under any such contract. The amount of the appropriation in each fiscal year to meet the obligations of such contract as authorized and required hereby shall be due and payable and shall be expended for the purpose of paying and meeting the obligations provided under the terms and conditions of such contract, and such appropriation shall have the same legal status as if the contracting municipality or political subdivision had included the amount of the appropriation in its general revenue or appropriation measure, and such fiscal officers shall make such payment to the authority if for any reason such appropriation is not otherwise made; and said political subdivision be and the same is hereby specifically authorized to levy taxes, without limitation as to rate or amount, and to expend tax monies of said municipality or political subdivision and any other available funds thereof, and to obligate said municipality or political subdivision to make payment thereof to the authority upon such terms as may be provided in any such contract entered into by and between the authority and said municipality or political subdivision, in order to enable the authority to pay the principal of and interest on any of its bonds as the same mature and to create and maintain a reserve for that purpose and also to enable the authority to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the property so furnished by said authority;
(d)
To acquire, construct, own, repair, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, maintain and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from such proceeds and any grant or contribution from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof or from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(e)
To accept loans and/or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or such agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision may require;
(f)
To receive and administer gifts, grants, and devises of any property and to administer trusts;
(g)
To acquire by purchase, gift or donation any real or personal property desired to be acquired as a part of any project or for the purpose of improving, extending, adding to, reconstructing, renovating or remodeling any project or part thereof already acquired, or for the purpose of demolition to make room for such project or any part thereof;
(h)
To sell, lease, exchange, transfer, assign, pledge, mortgage or dispose of, or grant options for any such purposes, any real or personal property or interest therein;
(i)
To mortgage, convey, pledge or assign any properties revenues, income, tolls, charges or fees owned or received by the authority;
(j)
To issue revenue obligations for the purpose of providing funds for carrying out the purpose of the authority, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(k)
To appoint officers and retain agents, engineers, attorneys, fiscal agents, accountants and employees and to provide their compensation and duties;
(l)
To acquire by purchase, gift or lease any property owned by a municipality or political subdivision which has been acquired or damaged through the exercise of the right of eminent domain by said municipality or political subdivision;
(m)
To construct, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, extend, improve and equip projects located on land owned or leased by the authority, and to pay all or part of the cost of any such project from the proceeds of revenue bonds of the authority or from any contribution or loans by persons, firms or corporations, or any other contribution, all of which the authority is hereby authorized to receive and accept and use;
(n)
To borrow money and to issue notes or revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or part of the cost of any project, including the cost of extending, adding to or improving such project, or for the purpose of refunding any such bonds of the authority theretofore issued. Such revenue bonds shall be issued and validated under and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1937, pp. 761, et seq.), as heretofore or hereafter amended. As security for the payment of any revenue bonds so authorized, any property, real or personal, of the authority may be pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered and said authority may execute any trust agreement or indenture containing any provisions not in conflict with law for the security of such bonds, which trust agreement or indenture may provide for foreclosure or forced sale of any property of the authority upon default on such bonds either in payment of principal or interest or upon default in the performance of any term or condition contained in such agreement or indenture. The State of Georgia on behalf of the state and each county, municipal corporation, political subdivision and taxing district therein hereby waives any right it or such county, municipal corporation, political subdivision or taxing district may have to prevent the forced sale or foreclosure of any property of the authority so mortgaged or encumbered and any such mortgage or encumbrance may be foreclosed in accordance with law and the terms thereof;
(o)
To make or cause to be made studies and analyses of economic changes taking place in project areas and of the impact of metropolitan growth upon those areas;
(p)
To prepare a plan or plans for the development and redevelopment of such project areas; such plan or plans shall be coordinated with governmental planning boards and agencies but the authority shall have the ultimate responsibility for preparation of such plan or plans;
(q)
To implement any general plan of development in the project areas which have been approved by the political subdivision in which said development is located;
(r)
To have and exercise any and all of the usual powers of private and public corporations which are not in conflict with the Constitution and the laws of the State of Georgia, including the power to adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the conduct and management of the authority;
(s)
To accumulate its funds from year to year and to invest accumulated funds in any manner that public funds of the State of Georgia or any of its political subdivisions may be invested;
(t)
To make loans of a temporary nature of surplus or accumulated funds;
(u)
To designate officers to sign and act for the authority generally or on any specific matter;
(v)
To do any and all acts and things necessary or convenient to accomplish or to complement the purpose and powers of the authority as herein stated;
(w)
Such additional powers as are set forth at Ga. Code Ann. Section 87-803 as it now exists or is hereafter amended, said powers being incorporated herein by reference.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 5)
Sec. 3.2.21. - Revenue bonds.
(a)
The authority, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the authority created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable and may be secured by a pledge of rents, fees, charges, and other revenues of, and by the mortgage of, all or any part of the project or projects financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds or with the proceeds of bonds called and refunded or to be called and refunded by such bond issue. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates per annum, payable at such time or times, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
(b)
The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of the principal thereof and the interest thereon, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest.
(c)
All such bonds shall be executed with the engraved, imprinted, stamped, or otherwise reproduced facsimile of the signature of the chairman of the authority and the corporate seal of the authority shall be thereunto impressed or a facsimile thereof imprinted or otherwise reproduced and attested by the manually executed signature of the secretary-treasurer of the authority and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signature of said secretary-treasurer. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on the bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until delivery, and such bonds may, nevertheless, be issued and delivered as though the person who signed or sealed such bonds had not ceased to be such officer, and any of such bonds may be executed and sealed on behalf of said authority by such officers who may, at the time of the execution of such bonds, hold the proper offices of said authority although on the date of such bonds or on the date of any lawful proceedings taken in connection therewith such persons may not have held such offices.
(d)
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to be negotiable under the laws of the State of Georgia, subject to provisions for registration.
(e)
The authority may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the authority and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(f)
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipt, interim certificates or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(g)
The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds and coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(h)
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things other than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required hereunder. Any resolution, providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions hereof shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the authority.
(i)
Revenue bonds issued by the authority hereunder shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of Gainesville, Georgia, Hall County, the State of Georgia or any political subdivision thereof which may contract with said authority. No contracts entered into by the authority with any such political subdivision shall create a debt of such political subdivision of the State of Georgia within the meaning of Article VII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, but any such political subdivision may obligate itself to pay the payments required under such contracts, as herein set out, from monies received from taxes and from any other source without creating a debt within the meaning of Article VII, Section VI, Paragraph I, of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(j)
In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or without the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues and earnings to be received by the authority. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair and insuring of the project, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the authority, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds; and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depositary of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other monies be satisfactory to such purchasers, and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state or of the United States to act as such depositary and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 6)
Sec. 3.2.22. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The authority shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or persons who, or any agency, bank or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such bonds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to each regulations as such resolutions or trust indentures may provide.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 7)
Sec. 3.2.23. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues are produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the authority to the payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the authority, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds, so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest and other investment charges, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as hereinabove provided. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds, or in the trust indenture, any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not again be issued.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 8)
Sec. 3.2.24. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the authority, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 9)
Sec. 3.2.25. - Funding and refunding bonds.
The authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the authority for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the authority in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 10)
Sec. 3.2.26. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such authority shall be brought in the Superior Court of Hall County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to the validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 11)
Sec. 3.2.27. - Validation.
Bonds of the authority shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law of the State of Georgia, as heretofore or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make a party defendant to such action any municipality or political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the authority for the services and facilities of the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and any such municipality, political subdivision or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any exist, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the contract or contracts adjudicated as security for the payment of any such bonds of the authority. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the authority issuing the same, and any municipality, political subdivision or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the said authority.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 12)
Sec. 3.2.28. - Interest of bondholders protected.
The authority shall have perpetual existence, and, while any of the bonds issued by the authority remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said authority or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 13)
Sec. 3.2.29. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The authority is hereby authorized to prescribe and fix rates and to revise same from time to time and to collect rent, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities and commodities furnished; and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension of its undertakings or projects; and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds, and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues of such undertaking or project, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 14)
Sec. 3.2.30. - Legal investments.
The bonds herein authorized are hereby made securities in which all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions, all insurance companies and associations, and other persons carrying on an insurance business, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks, and savings associations, including savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, investment companies, and other persons carrying on a banking business, all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees, and other fiduciaries and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also hereby made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all political subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 15)
Sec. 3.2.31. - Property not subject to levy and sale.
The property of the authority shall not be subject to levy and sale under legal process except such property, revenue, income or funds as may be pledged, assigned, mortgaged or conveyed to secure an obligation of the authority, and any such property, revenue, funds or income may be sold under legal process or under any power granted by the authority to enforce payment of the obligation.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 16)
Sec. 3.2.32. - Construction.
This Act and all provisions, rights, powers and authority granted hereunder, being for the welfare of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of its purposes.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 17)
Sec. 3.2.33. - Powers declared supplementary.
The provisions of this Act shall be regarded as supplementary and additional to powers conferred by other laws and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 18)
Sec. 3.2.34. - Severability.
The provisions of this Act are severable, and if any of its provisions shall be held unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the decision of such court shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions; and notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby. Insofar as the provisions of this Act are inconsistent with the provisions of any other law, the provisions of this Act shall be controlling.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4440, § 19)
CHAPTER 3. - NORTHEAST GEORGIA SURFACE AND AIR TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION

Sec. 3.3.1. - Short title.
This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Northeast Georgia Surface and Air Transportation Commission Act."
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 1)
Sec. 3.3.2. - Creation of commission.
(a)
There is created a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Northeast Georgia Surface and Air Transportation Commission, which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts. The commission shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(b)
The commission shall be composed of 33 members who shall be appointed as follows:
(1)
Two members shall be appointed by the governing authority of each member county. One of such members shall be appointed for an initial term of one year and one for an initial term of three years. Successors to such members shall serve for terms of three years;
(2)
One member shall be appointed by the governing authority of each member municipality for an initial term of two years. Successors to such members shall serve for terms of three years; and
(3)
One member shall be elected at large by a majority vote of the remaining members for an initial term of two years. Successors to such member shall serve for a term of three years.
All initial members of the commission shall be appointed within 30 days of the effective date of this Act; provided, however that any members added by any amendatory Act shall be appointed within 30 days of the effective date of such amendatory Act. All members shall be eligible for reappointment. Twenty-one members shall constitute a quorum. Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled by appointment by the governing body responsible for originally appointing such member or in the case of the at-large member, by vote of the remaining members. No vacancy on the commission shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the commission.
(c)
The members of the commission shall elect a chairman and vice chairman of the commission from among the members thereof and shall also elect a secretary-treasurer who need not be a member of the commission. The commission shall also elect an executive committee which shall be composed of the chairman and vice-chairman and three additional members elected by a majority of the members of the commission. The executive committee shall have such powers and authority as shall be provided by the bylaws of the commission. Persons elected to the executive committee shall serve on such committee for a term of one year. The members of the commission shall determine their compensation for serving in such capacities.
(d)
Any member may be removed from office for good cause affecting his ability to perform his duties as a member, for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office or for violating the conflict of interest provisions of this Act by vote of 22 of the other members, but only after a public hearing at which such member is given the right to present evidence in his own behalf and only upon a finding by 22 of the other members that good cause for removal affecting the member's ability to perform his duties as a member exists, that he was guilty of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office, or that he violated the conflict of interest provisions of this Act. Any member who fails to attend three consecutive regular meetings of the commission shall automatically by reason of such fact cease to be a member of the commission. However, such person shall be eligible for reappointment to the commission upon a showing of good cause for failure to attend such meetings.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 2; 1990 Ga. Laws, p. 5151. § 1)
Sec. 3.3.3. - Definitions.
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
Airport means:
a.
Any area of land or water or any structure which is or has been used, or which the commission may plan to use, for the landing and taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft, including helicopters; and all buildings, equipment, facilities, or other property and improvements of any kind or nature located within the bounds of any such land or water area or structure;
b.
Facilities of any type for the accommodation of passengers, maintenance, servicing, and operation of aircraft, business offices and facilities of private businesses and governmental agencies, parking of automobiles, and all other activities which are or have been carried on or which may be necessary or convenient in conjunction with the landing and taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft; and
c.
All buildings, equipment, facilities, and other property and improvements of any kind or nature located outside the bounds of any such land or water area or structure which is or has been used or which the commission plans to use for the landing and taking off of commercial, private, and military aircraft which are necessary for the safe operation of aircraft, including without limitation, aviation easements and other real or personal property.
(2)
Commission means the Northeast Georgia Surface and Air Transportation Commission created by Section 2 [3.3.2] of this Act.
(3)
Cost of the project means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges, interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal, and legal expenses, costs of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this Act, the construction of any project, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for such project.
(4)
Member county means Banks, Barrow, Clarke, Elbert, Greene, Hall, Jackson, Madison, Morgan, Oconee, Oglethorpe, Stephens and Walton counties unless the governing authority of any such county has adopted a resolution, at any time, declaring that such county shall not be a member county under this Act.
(5)
Member municipality means the Cities of Athens, Commerce, Elberton, Gainesville, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and Winder unless the governing authority of such municipality has adopted a resolution, at any time, declaring that such municipality shall not be a member municipality under this Act.
(6)
Project means and includes the leasing, acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance, improving, and operation of public airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft and surface transportation facilities and systems, related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings, and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property, both real and personal, and the lease and sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such airports and landing fields for the use of aircraft and such surface transportation facilities and systems, deemed by the commission to be necessary, convenient, or desirable for the operation of such airports, landing fields, and surface transportation facilities and systems.
(7)
Revenue bonds and bonds shall mean revenue bonds and certificates as defined and provided for in Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," and such type of obligations may be issued by the commission as authorized under said article. In addition, such terms shall also mean obligations of the commission the issuance of which are specifically provided for in this Act.
(b)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the commission, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the commission therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing, improving, and extending the project and to pay the principal and interest of the revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project or projects.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 3; 1990 Ga. Laws, p. 5151, § 2)
Sec. 3.3.4. - Powers.
(a)
The commission is authorized:
(1)
To have a seal and alter the seal at pleasure;
(2)
To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(3)
To acquire in its own name by purchase on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, or by condemnation in accordance with the provisions of any and all existing laws applicable to the condemnation of property for public use, real property, rights, or easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or to dispose of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the commission, the commission being under no obligation to accept and pay for any property condemned under this Act except from the funds provided under the authority of this Act; and in any proceedings to condemn, such orders may be made by the court having jurisdiction of the suit, action, or proceedings as may be just to the commission and to the owners of the property to be condemned; and no property shall be acquired under the provisions of this Act upon which any lien or other encumbrance exists, unless at the time such property is so acquired a sufficient sum of money is deposited in trust to pay and redeem the fair value of such lien or encumbrance;
(4)
To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys and fix their respective compensation;
(5)
To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, or agencies of the state are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the commission upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
(6)
To plan, acquire, establish, develop, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, and lease all airports which shall come under its control under the provisions of this Act or which it may acquire or plan to acquire; to regulate, protect, and police such airports and all related activities and facilities; to enter into any contracts, leases, or other agreements, promulgate any orders, set any tolls, fees, or other charges for the use of its property or services and collect and use same as necessary to operate the airports under its control and to accomplish any purposes of this Act; and to make any purchases or sales necessary for such purposes; provided, however, that airports owned or operated by a member county or municipality or any authority of a member county or municipality may not be acquired except with the consent of such owner or operator;
(7)
To contract with any persons, firms, or public or private corporations to supply goods, commodities, facilities, and services to the public, employees of the commission, and employees of air carriers and other commercial interests located at any airport under its control under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe including, if desirable, exclusive rights, franchises, or concessions;
(8)
To adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the orderly, safe, efficient, and sanitary operation of airports and related facilities under its control; to provide for its own security force and peace officers with powers of arrest or to arrange for such security force or peace officers in connection with the county in which a facility is located; and to prescribe reasonable penalties for the breach of any rule or regulation. All such rules, regulations, or orders shall become effective upon approval by the commission and after publication of a notice containing a substantive statement of the rules and regulations and the penalties for violation thereof in a newspaper of general circulation of all counties in which such rules and regulations are to be applied. The notice shall state that the breach of any such rule or regulation will subject the violator to a penalty, shall state the penalty, and shall state that the full text of all rules and regulations shall be maintained in the principal office of the commission where same will be open to public inspection and perusal. All rules and regulations shall in fact be so maintained. Said rules and regulations, when promulgated as provided herein shall be judicially recognized by and enforceable in the court having jurisdiction over the offense and located in the county in which the violation occurs;
(9)
To provide its own fire and emergency medical protection and crash and rescue services or to arrange for such services in connection with any federal, state, municipal, or county agency or any private firm in the business of providing such services;
(10)
To make application directly or indirectly to any federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or to any other source, public or private, for loans, grants, guarantees, or other financial assistance in aid of airports under its control and to accept and use same upon such terms and conditions as are prescribed by the federal, state, county, or municipal government or agency or other source;
(11)
To enter into agreements with the state, any subdivision thereof, or any county or municipality or the federal government or any agency thereof to use in the performance of its functions the facilities or the services of the state or such subdivision or such county or municipality or the federal government or any agency thereof in order to accomplish the purposes of this Act;
(12)
To enter into contracts, leases, or other agreements with federally certificated air carriers, other commercial air carriers, and other commercial users of its airports for the use of such airports under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate and for such charges, rentals, and fees as it deems appropriate;
(13)
To enter into such agreement with any municipality or any county presently operating airports of which the commission may subsequently assume control with respect to the manner of transfer of airport employees from any municipality or any county to the commission as the commission deems necessary and appropriate or to contract with such governmental agency for the continued services of such officers and employees on such terms as are deemed to be appropriate;
(14)
To establish a plan of civil service for officers and employees of the commission or to provide by resolution that such officers and employees of the commission shall be covered under any state, county, or municipal civil service plan which is available to such employees under the laws of the state or any county or municipality;
(15)
To establish a plan for retirement, disability, hospitalization, and death benefits for officers and employees of the commission or to provide by resolution that such officers and employees shall be covered under any state, county, or municipal plan available to them under the laws of the state or any county or municipality;
(16)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage projects as defined in paragraph (5) of Section 3 [3.3.3] of this Act, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds and revenue bonds of the commission or from such proceeds and any grant from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
(17)
To accept loans and grants of money, materials, or property of any kind from the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America, the State of Georgia, or such agency or instrumentality may impose;
(18)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes, to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(19)
To exercise any power which is usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions and which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state; and
(20)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act.
(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act to the contrary, the commission shall not:
(1)
Own or maintain aircraft or perform maintenance on aircraft owned by others;
(2)
Engage in flight instruction, flight charter, or other aircraft for hire business; or
(3)
Perform maintenance on radios, propellers, or other aircraft accessories.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 4)
Sec. 3.3.5. - Members of the commission not to be interested in contracts.
The commission is prohibited from entering into a contract for the purchase of goods, property, or service with any member of the commission or the employer, partner, principal, agent, servant, or employee of a commission member. The commission shall not enter into any contract in which any member of the commission is financially interested, directly or indirectly. Neither the chairman nor any member of the commission nor a partner, employer, principal, agent, servant, or employee of a commission member shall enter into any contract with the commission or sell to the commission any goods, property, or service; provided, however, this section shall not apply to goods or services purchased from any public utility. Any contract made in violation of this section shall be void.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 5)
Sec. 3.3.6. - Revenue bonds.
The commission, or any authority or body which had or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties, and liabilities vested in the commission created by this Act, is authorized at one time or from time to time to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds of the commission for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as defined in this Act of any one or more projects. The principal and interest of such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund provided in this Act for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding the interest allowed by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," shall be payable semiannually, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the commission, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the commission, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the commission in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 6)
Sec. 3.3.7. - Same; form; denominations; registration; place of payment.
The commission shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company inside or outside the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the commission may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone or also as to both the principal and interest.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 7)
Sec. 3.3.8. - Same; signatures; seal.
In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the commission and the official seal of the commission shall be fixed thereto and attested by the secretary of the commission, and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the signature or facsimile signature of the chairman of the commission. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signature of such person and any bond may be signed, sealed, and attested on behalf of the commission by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of such bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 8)
Sec. 3.3.9. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under this Act shall have and are declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the state. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 9)
Sec. 3.3.10. - Same; sale; price.
The commission may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the commission, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at a greater rate than the interest allowed by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law," computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding, however, from such computation the amount of any premium to be paid on redemption of any bond prior to maturity.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 10)
Sec. 3.3.11. - Same; proceeds of bonds.
The proceeds of such bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project or projects and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, additional bonds may be issued in like manner to provide the amount of such deficit, which, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture, shall be deemed to be of the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued for the same purpose. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed the amount required for the purpose for which such bonds are issued, the surplus shall be paid into the fund provided for in this Act for the payment of principal and interest of such bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 11)
Sec. 3.3.12. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the commission, under like restrictions, may issue interim receipts, interim certificates, or temporary bonds, with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 12)
Sec. 3.3.13. - Replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The commission may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 13)
Sec. 3.3.14. - Conditions precedent to issuance; object of issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified or required by this Act. In the discretion of the commission, revenue bonds of a single issue may be issued for the purpose of any particular project. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special or adjourned meeting of the commission by a majority of its members.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 14)
Sec. 3.3.15. - Bonds; trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the commission, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the commission and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company inside or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the commission. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the commission in relation to the acquisition of property; the construction of the project; the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project; and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the commission, and satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued therefor and may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the commission. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the commission may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 15)
Sec. 3.3.16. - Same; to whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
In the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, the commission shall provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who, or any agency, bank, or trust company which, shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes for which such bonds were issued, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 16)
Sec. 3.3.17. - Same; sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls, and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings, and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the commission to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the commission as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust instrument may provide; and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals, as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund, which sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payments of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) the necessary charges of paying agents for paying principal and interest, and (4) any premium upon bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in this Act. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust indenture, surplus moneys in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds. Any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be canceled and shall not again be issued.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 17)
Sec. 3.3.18. - Same; remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under this Act or any coupons appertaining thereto and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights given in this Act may be restricted by the resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted under this Act or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture to be performed by the commission or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 18)
Sec. 3.3.19. - Same; refunding bonds.
The commission is authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue refunding bonds of the commission for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds issued under this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon. The issuance of such revenue refunding bonds, the maturities, all other details thereof, and the duties of the commission in respect to the same shall be governed by the foregoing provision of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 19)
Sec. 3.3.20. - Same; venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under this Act or any suit or action against the commission shall be brought in the Superior Court of Hall County, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under this Act shall likewise be brought in said court, which shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such actions.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 20)
Sec. 3.3.21. - Same; validation.
Bonds of the commission shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedures of Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law." The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia which has contracted with the commission. The bonds, when validated, and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds against the commission issuing the same and any municipality, county, authority, subdivision, or instrumentality contracting with the commission.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 21)
Sec. 3.3.22. - Same; interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the commission remain outstanding, the powers, duties, or existence of the commission or of its officers, employees, or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency, or authority will be created which will compete with the commission to such an extent as to affect adversely the interests and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the commission. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the commission and the holders of any such bonds and, upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions of this Act, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 22)
Sec. 3.3.23. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of any member county or municipality or a pledge of the faith and credit of said county or municipality, but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund provided for in this Act; and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate any member county or municipality to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment of such bonds; and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 23)
Sec. 3.3.24. - Bonds as legal investments for trustees and as lawful deposits of securities with public officers.
Any bonds issued by the commission under the provisions of this Act are made securities in which public officers and bodies of this state; all municipalities; all municipal subdivisions; all insurance companies and associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business; all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks, savings associations, investment companies and other persons carrying on a banking business; all administrators, guardians, executors, trustees, and other fiduciaries; and all other persons who are now or may hereafter be authorized to invest in bonds or other obligations of the state may properly and legally invest funds including capital in their control or belonging to them. The bonds are also made securities which may be deposited with and shall be received by all public officers and bodies of this state and all municipalities and municipal subdivisions for any purpose for which the deposit of the bonds or other obligations of this state is now or may hereafter be authorized.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 24)
Sec. 3.3.25. - Property of commission deemed to be public property.
It is declared that all property of the commission held, pursuant to the terms of this Act, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, and of any kind or nature, and any income or revenue therefrom, is held for an essential public and governmental purpose, and all such property is deemed to be public property.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 25)
Sec. 3.3.26. - Taxation of the commission.
The property, obligations, and interest on the obligations of the commission shall have the same immunity from taxation as the property, obligations, and interest on the obligations of its member counties. The exemption from taxation herein provided shall not extend to tenants or lessees of the commission.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 26)
Sec. 3.3.27. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, fees, and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 27)
Sec. 3.3.28. - Determination of need for the commission.
(a)
It is determined and declared that the present and projected rapid growth in commercial and private air traffic in the northeast Georgia area, the need for adequate airports to serve safely and efficiently the air transportation needs of the state and the metropolitan areas of northeast Georgia, the need to eliminate airport hazards, the need to raise large amounts of capital for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of present and future airports, and the need to coordinate the operation of various airports within certain metropolitan areas of the state necessitates the creation of an air and surface transportation commission for the present and future operation of air and surface transportation facilities. It is further determined and declared that the establishment of such commission is necessary and essential to ensure the welfare, safety, and convenience of citizens of the entire state and to ensure the proper economic development of the entire state.
(b)
The purposes and objectives of this Act and the commission shall be to meet the needs and requirements recognized in subsection (a) of this section through the establishment, maintenance, and operation of unified and coordinated surface and air transportation systems in the northeast Georgia region; to ensure the orderly and proper use and growth of public airports; to ensure that the maximum public benefit is attained from any public airports in existence and from any future airports; to ensure proper planning and establishment of future airports; to ensure maximum participation in national and international air transportation programs; to promote public transportation and commerce; and to provide the effective and economical use of public airports for the public welfare, safety, and convenience. The primary purpose of this commission is to address the airline passenger service needs of the region and is not to supplant or replace the need for general aviation in the region.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 28)
Sec. 3.3.29. - Rates, charges, and revenues; use.
The commission is authorized to prescribe, fix, and collect rates, fees, tolls, or charges and to revise from time to time and collect such rates, fees, tolls, or charges for the services, facilities, or commodities furnished and, in anticipation of the collection of the revenues of such undertaking or project, to issue revenue bonds as provided in this Act to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of the public airport, landing fields, surface transportation systems, and related buildings and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon all or any part of the revenues of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments, or extensions thereto thereafter made.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 29)
Sec. 3.3.30. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the commission to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act. After the commission has selected a potential site or sites for the regional airport, notice of the site or sites so selected shall be delivered to the board of commissioners of the county wherein the site or sites are located, and the board of commissioners shall have 60 days to notify the commission of its decision to accept the airport or, in the alternative, submit the question of acceptance or rejection of the regional airport to a public referendum which shall be held within 90 days of the call.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 30)
Sec. 3.3.31. - Financial statements and audit reports.
(a)
The commission shall establish a fiscal year for its operation and, as soon after the end of each fiscal year as is feasible, the commission shall cause to be prepared and printed a report and financial statement of the commission's operations for the fiscal year just ended and of its assets and liabilities. A copy of such report shall be sent to the governing commission of each member county, and additional copies shall be made available for distribution to the general public on written requests therefor.
(b)
The commission shall appoint in due time each year a firm of independent certified public accountants as auditors who shall examine the books, records, and accounts of the commission for the purpose of auditing and reporting upon its financial statement for such year. The report of such auditors shall be appended to such financial statement.
(c)
Whenever the commission deems it necessary or advisable, it shall be authorized to employ a firm of qualified independent engineers to survey the condition of the commission's facilities and operations from an engineering standpoint and to make a report thereof together with its recommendations for improvement in its physical facilities and operating procedures. A copy of such report shall be sent to the governing commission of each member county and additional copies shall be made available for distribution to the general public on written request therefor.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 31)
Sec. 3.3.32. - Competitive bidding on contracts.
(a)
Except in the purchase of unique articles or articles which for any reason are unobtainable in the open market and except as provided in this Act, competitive bids shall be secured before any purchase or sale, by contract or otherwise, is made by the commission or before any contract is awarded for construction, alterations, supplies, equipment, repairs, or maintenance or for rendering any services to the commission other than professional services. The purchase shall be made from or the contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder or the sale shall be made to the highest responsible bidder. If the amount involved is $10,000.00 or more, no purchase of any unique article or other articles unobtainable in the open market shall be made unless a report detailing why such unique article or other articles are unobtainable in the open market is submitted to the chairman of the commission.
(b)
All purchases, contracts, and sales of $10,000.00 or more shall be awarded after advertising in the official organs of the member counties at least two weeks prior to the bid opening. Bids shall be publicly opened and read aloud at a date, time, and place designated in the invitation to bid. Invitations to bid shall be sent at least one week prior to the bid opening to at least three potential bidders who are qualified technically and financially to submit bids or, in lieu thereof, the commission shall keep on file a memorandum showing that less than three potential bidders so qualified exist in the market area within which it is practicable to obtain bids.
(c)
Written price quotations from at least three qualified and responsible vendors shall be obtained for all purchases and sales under $2,000.00 but more than $1,000.00 or, in lieu thereof, the commission shall keep on file a memorandum showing that less than three vendors so qualified exist in the market area within which it is practicable to obtain quotations, except as provided in this Act.
(d)
Purchases or sales under $1,000.00 may be negotiated with or without competitive bidding under sound procurement procedures as promulgated and established by the commission.
(e)
Competitive bidding requirements may be waived if it is determined by the commission that an emergency directly and immediately affecting customer service or public health, safety, or welfare requires immediate delivery of supplies, materials, equipment, or services; provided, however, that a statement explaining the emergency shall be entered in the permanent records of the commission.
(f)
The commission shall have the right to reject any or all bids or parts of any or all bids whenever in the opinion of the commission such rejection is necessary for the protection of the interests of the commission. In such cases, the commission shall readvertise for new bids on the same or different terms.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 32)
Sec. 3.3.33. - Contractors to give bond.
Contractors who are awarded contracts by the commission shall be required to give bond in an amount equal to the amount of the bid, with good security, for the faithful performance of the contract and to indemnify the commission for any damages occasioned by a failure to perform the same within the prescribed time. Such bond shall be approved by and filed with the commission or shall be approved by and filed with such other person as may be designated by the commission.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 33)
Sec. 3.3.34. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for doing the things authorized thereby, shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as being in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 34)
Sec. 3.3.35. - Liberal construction of Act.
This Act, being for the welfare of various political subdivisions of the state and its inhabitants, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 35)
Sec. 3.3.36. - Powers of counties and municipalities.
This Act does not in any way take from member counties or any municipality located therein or any adjoining county the authority to own, operate, and maintain public airports or landing fields or to issue revenue certificates as is provided by Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 of the O.C.G.A., known as the "Revenue Bond Law."
(1989 Ga. Laws, p. 4596, § 36)
Sec. 3.3.37. - [Severability.]
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
