CHAPTER 1-1. - GENERAL PROVISIONS[3]

Sec. 1-1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as The Code of Ordinances, City of Gainesville, Georgia, and may be so cited. It may also be cited as The Gainesville Municipal Code.
(Code 1958, § 1-1)
State Law reference— Exemplification of municipal minutes and other records, OCGA § 24-7-21.
Sec. 1-1-2. - Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
Chapter, article, division. References to a chapter, article or division of this Code also refer to any schedule of fees, rates, charges, etc., pertaining thereto.
Charter. The word "charter" means the charter of the City of Gainesville, approved on April 11, 1979, as now or hereafter amended or superseded by various acts of the General Assembly or home rule amendments adopted by the city council.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" are construed as if the words "of Gainesville" followed it and shall extend to and include its several officers, agents and employees.
City council. Whenever reference is made to the city council, it is construed to refer to the city council of the City of Gainesville.
City manager. Whenever reference is made to the city manager, it shall be construed to refer to the city manager of the City of Gainesville.
Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done, a certain length of time before any proceedings shall be had, the day on which such notice is given, or such act is done, is counted in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had is not to be counted.
Corporations. This Code imposes liability on a corporation, and an agent of the corporation performs the conduct which is an element of the offense while acting within the scope of his office or employment and in behalf of the corporation; this section is clearly intended to impose liability on a corporation, and an agent of the corporation. A corporation may be prosecuted for an act or omission constituting an offense if the commission of the offense is authorized, requested, commanded, performed, or recklessly tolerated by the board of directors or by a managerial official who is acting within the scope of his employment in behalf of the corporation. For the purposes of this section:
Agent means any director, officer, servant, employee, or other person who is authorized to act in behalf of the corporation;
Managerial official means an officer of the corporation or any other agent who has a position of comparable authority for the formulation of corporate policy or the supervision of subordinate employees.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" shall mean the County of Hall.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Health officer means the health officer of the joint city-county board of health, or by any duly authorized person who may represent him.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provisions imposed by the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Mayor. Whenever the word "mayor" is used, it shall be construed to mean the mayor of the City of Gainesville.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one (1) person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" includes "affirmation."
OCGA. The letters "OCGA" means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, boards, commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards and commissions by title only, i.e., "city clerk or secretary of the city council," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards and commissions of the City of Gainesville.
Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, co-partnerships of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, copartnerships, public and private institutions, bodies politic and corporate and other legal entities as well as to individuals, including the officers of such associations, corporations, etc.
Personal property includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall, may. The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Signature, subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes the mark of an illiterate or infirm person.
State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the State of Georgia.
Street means the entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
Tense. Words used in the present or past tense include the future as well as the present or past.
Time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this city.
Writing. The word "writing" includes printing and all numerals.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1958, §§ 1-2, 7-1, 10-21, 12-1, 23-104; Ord. No. 88-60, § I, 10-4-88)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, OCGA § 1-3-1 et seq.; computation of time under Civil Practice Act, OCGA § 9-11-6; "street" defined, OCGA § 40-1-1(58).
Sec. 1-1-3. - Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1958, § 1-3)
Charter reference— Section captions in charter, § 8.14.
Sec. 1-1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1958, § 1-4)
Charter reference— Existing ordinances, etc., § 8.12; specific repealer for charter, § 8.17; general repealer for charter, § 8.18.
Sec. 1-1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of the court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1958, § 1-5)
Charter reference— Severability of charter provisions, § 8.15.
Sec. 1-1-6. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(Code 1958, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-1-7. - General penalty; continuing violations; adjudging fines and imprisonments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision of this Code and where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any provision of this Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any violation of any provision of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Code 1958, § 1-8; Ord. No. 90-28, § 1, 6-19-90)
State Law reference— Confinement of violators of ordinances, OCGA § 36-30-8; sentences and fines, OCGA § 36-32-5.
Sec. 1-1-8. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
(3)
Any right or franchise granted by any ordinance of the council to any person;
(4)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(5)
The annual appropriation ordinance;
(6)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes;
(7)
Any ordinance providing for occupational licenses;
(8)
Any zoning ordinance or zoning map of the city;
(9)
Any ordinance establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the city;
(10)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(11)
Any ordinance accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
(12)
Any ordinance extending the boundaries of the city;
(13)
Any ordinance providing for the acquisition of lands for use as public parks;
(14)
Any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this Code;
(15)
Any temporary or special ordinance;
and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. of 5-29-58, § 3)
Sec. 1-1-9. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
modified
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion hereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages. Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated herein, so that a reference to the Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of The Code of Ordinances, City of Gainesville, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: …." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code, is to be added, the following language shall be used: "That The Code of Ordinances, City of Gainesville, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows: …." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1958, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-1-10. - Supplementation of Code.
modified
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive parts of permanent and general ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In the preparation of a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the ordinance sections inserted in the Code; but, in no case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
