Title 1 - GENERAL GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 2. - CHICOPEE WOODS AREA PARK COMMISSION

Sec. 1.2.1. - Short title.
This may be cited as the "Chicopee Woods Area Park Commission Act."
(1988 Ga. Laws, p. 3783, § 1)
Sec. 1.2.2. - Commission named and renamed.
(a)
There is hereby created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Gainesville Area Park Commission (hereinafter "commission"), which shall be deemed to be a political subdivision of the State of Georgia and a public corporation by that name, style and title and said body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, except that the commission or a trustee acting under a trust indenture shall in no event be liable for any torts committed by any of the officers, agents and employees thereof. The commission is hereby granted the same exemptions and exclusions from taxes as are now or hereafter may be granted to cities and counties for the construction, acquisition and operation of facilities similar to facilities to be operated by the commission as provided under the provisions of this Act.
(b)
The body corporate and politic created by subsection (a) of this section and known as the "Gainesville Area Park Commission" is hereby renamed as the "Chicopee Woods Area Park Commission." The change of name or of composition of the commission shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this Act or impair the obligations of any contracts under this Act.
(c)
The commission shall consist of 11 members, all of whom shall reside within the bounds of Hall County, Georgia. Four of such members shall be appointed by the council of the City of Gainesville (hereinafter the "city"), one of which shall be the mayor of the City of Gainesville, or his designee, who shall be a council member of the City of Gainesville, five members shall be appointed by the board of commissioners of Hall County (hereinafter the "county"), one of which shall be the chairman of the board of commissioners of Hall County, or his designee, who shall be a member of the board of commissioners of Hall County, and two members shall be appointed by the commission. The following named persons shall initially serve as members of the commission for the period of time indicated for each person respectively, to wit:
(1)
From the date of the approval of this Act until March 26, 1989, and until their successors are appointed and assume office, Ed Wayne, appointed by the city; Foster Watkins, appointed by the county; and Ray McRae, appointed by the commission;
(2)
From the date of the approval of this Act until March 26, 1990, and until their successors are appointed and assume their duties, Pierce Hancock, appointed by the city; Roger Bower, appointed by the county; and Jack Burd, appointed by the commission;
(3)
From the date of the approval of this Act until March 26, 1991, and until their successors are appointed and assume their duties, James E. Mathis, Sr., appointed by the county; Dr. John Davis, appointed by the city; and Eugene Mooney, appointed by the county;
(4)
The current chairman of the board of commissioners of Hall County, Jerry Nix, and the current mayor of the City of Gainesville, Ernest Moore, or their respective designees shall be members of the commission until their successors as chairman and mayor, respectively, have been selected and have assumed the duties of such offices.
Upon the expiration of the term of office of each of the above-named members, the vacancies created by the expiration of said terms, except for the position of chairman of the board of commissioners of Hall County and the mayor of the City of Gainesville, shall be filled by an appointment by the respective governing authority who appointed the member who last filled the office that is vacant. Each member so selected shall serve for a term of three years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of the term of office shall be filled in like manner for the balance of the term. The commission shall elect one of its members as chairman and another member as vice-chairman and it shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer. Neither the secretary nor the treasurer shall be required to be a member of the commission and, if not a member, he or she shall have no voting rights. A majority of the members of the commission shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action authorized and permitted by law. No vacancy shall impair the right of the quorum to transact any and all business in accordance with the foregoing procedure. The members of the commission shall serve without compensation except that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in performance of their duties. The commission shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 2; 1988 Ga. Laws, p. 3783, § 2)
Sec. 1.2.3. - Definitions.
As used in this Act, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
The word "commission" shall mean the [Chicopee Woods] Area Park Commission created in Section 2 [1.2.2] of this Act. The commission shall have all powers of an authority and everywhere the word "commission" is used it shall include the word "authority," as said term is used in the Constitution of the State of Georgia and the statutes relating thereto.
(b)
The word "project" shall be deemed to mean and include the acquisition, construction, equipping, maintenance and operation of a recreation center and area or centers and areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, hiking, camping and picnicking areas and facilities, swimming and wading pools, lakes, golf courses, tennis courts, stadiums, athletic fields and courts, clubhouses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, gymnatoriums and related buildings and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance and operation of such recreational facilities and areas, deemed by the commission to be necessary, convenient or desirable.
(c)
The term "cost of the project" shall embrace the cost of construction, the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements and franchises acquired and the cost of all conveyances in fee simple of the commission's title thereto and leases thereof, the cost of preparing the land, including the installation of storm and sanitary sewers, the cost of all machinery, equipment and furnishings related to the operation of any project, financing charges, interest prior to and during construction, and for six months after completion of construction, cost of engineering, architectural, fiscal and legal expenses, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project, administrative expenses and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing herein authorized, and the cost of placing any project in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the "cost of the project" and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of any funds of the commission, including the proceeds of any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act for any such project or projects.
(d)
The terms "revenue bonds," "bonds" and "obligations" as used in this Act, shall mean revenue bonds as defined and provided for in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. Laws 1957, p. 36 et seq.), as amended, amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. Laws 1937, p. 761 et seq.), as amended, and such type of obligations may be issued by the commission as authorized under said Revenue Bond Law and any amendments thereto and in addition, shall also mean obligations of the commission the issuance of which are hereinafter specifically provided for in this Act.
(e)
Any project shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the commission, the revenues and earnings to be derived by the commission therefrom and all properties used, leased and sold in connection therewith, together with grants which may be received for the benefit of the project from the United States of America or the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality of either of them, will be sufficient to pay the cost of operating, maintaining and repairing, improving and extending the project and to pay the principal of and interest on the revenue bonds which may be issued to finance, in whole or in part, the cost of such project or projects.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 3)
Sec. 1.2.4. - Powers.
The commission shall have powers:
(a)
To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
(b)
To acquire by purchase, lease or otherwise, and to hold, lease and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purposes;
(c)
To acquire in its own name by purchase or gift, or otherwise, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property or rights of easements therein or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purposes, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of or disposition of the same in any manner it deems to the best advantage of the commission; and if the commission shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands the title to which shall then be in the State of Georgia, the Governor is hereby authorized to convey for and in behalf of the state title to such lands to the commission upon payment to the director, Fiscal Division, Department of Administrative Services for the credit of the general fund of the state of the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the Governor and the chairman of the commission; and if the commission shall deem it expedient to construct any project on any lands the title to which shall then be in Hall County or in any municipality incorporated in said county, the governing authority or body of said county or of any of said municipalities, is hereby authorized to convey title to such lands to the commission if said property is unserviceable or cannot be advantageously or beneficially used by said county or municipalities upon payment for the credit of the general funds of said county or municipalities the reasonable value of such lands, such value to be determined by three appraisers to be agreed upon by the governing authority or body of said county or municipality and the chairman of the commission;
(d)
To appoint, select and employ, officers, agents and employees, including engineering, architectural and construction experts, fiscal agents and attorneys, and fix their respective compensations;
(e)
To make contracts, leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient, including contracts for construction of projects and leases of projects or contracts with respect to the use of projects which it causes to be erected or acquired, and to dispose by conveyance of its title in fee simple of real and personal property of every kind and character, and any and all persons, firms and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions or agencies of the state are hereby authorized to enter into contracts, leases or agreements with the commission upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
(f)
To construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate and manage projects, as hereinabove defined, the cost of any such project to be paid in whole or in part from the proceeds of revenue bonds or other funds of the commission or from such proceeds or other funds and any grant from the United States of America or the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality of either of them;
(g)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality, may impose;
(h)
To accept loans or grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any agency or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof, upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such agency or instrumentality or political subdivision, may impose;
(i)
To borrow money for any of its corporate purposes and to execute evidences of such indebtedness and to secure the same and to issue negotiable revenue bonds payable solely from funds pledged for that purpose, and to provide for the payment of the same and for the rights of the holders thereof;
(j)
To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, which is not in conflict with the Constitution and laws of this state;
(k)
The commission is specifically authorized from time to time to sell, lease, grant, exchange or otherwise dispose of any surplus property, both real or personal, or interest therein not required in the normal operation of and usable in the furtherance of the purpose for which the commission was created, except as such right and power may be limited as provided in Section 17 [1.2.17] hereof;
(l)
To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Act;
(m)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, the commission shall exercise its powers only over lands which have heretofore been donated and conveyed by Johnson and Johnson to the City of Gainesville, Georgia, which land the commission is hereby specifically authorized to receive and over lands contiguous thereto, which are donated to the commission at any time in the future by any person, firm, corporation, or governmental entity.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 4)
Sec. 1.2.5. - Revenue bonds.
The commission, or any authority or body which has or which may in the future succeed to the powers, duties and liabilities vested in the commission created hereby, shall have power and is hereby authorized at one time, or from time to time, to provide by resolution for the issuance of negotiable revenue bonds, for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost as herein defined of any one or more projects and to establish a reasonable debt service reserve in connection with any bond issue. The principal of and interest on such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the special fund herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each shall bear interest from the date of such bonds at such rate or rates as shall be determined by the commission without regard to any limit prescribed in the Revenue Bond Law or any amendment thereto, or any other law. Interest on any such bonds shall be payable semi-annually, principal shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, shall be payable in such medium of payment as to both principal and interest as may be determined by the commission, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the commission, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the commission in the resolution providing for the issuance of the bonds. Such revenue bonds or obligations shall be issued pursuant to and in conformity with the procedures set forth in the Revenue Bond Law (Ga. L. 1957, p. 36 et seq.), as amended, amending the law formerly known as the Revenue Certificate Law of 1937 (Ga. L. 1937, p. 761 et seq.), as amended, and all procedures pertaining to such issuance, including the issuance of bonds in exchange for outstanding bonds, the validation certificate of the Clerk of the Superior Court, and the execution of the same, shall be the same as those contained in said Revenue Bond Law as now or hereafter amended.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 5)
Sec. 1.2.6. - Same; form; denomination; registration; place of payment.
The commission shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the state. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, as the commission may determine and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both the principal and interest, and the commission may make such provisions for exchangeability, transfer and the like as the commission may deem proper.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 6)
Sec. 1.2.7. - Same; signatures; seal.
All such bonds shall be signed by the chairman of the commission and attested by the secretary and treasurer of the commission and the official seal of the commission shall be affixed thereto and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman and secretary and treasurer of the commission. Any coupon may bear the facsimile signatures of such persons and any bond may be signed, sealed and attested on behalf of the commission by such persons as at the actual time of the execution of the bonds shall be duly authorized or hold the proper office, although at the date of such bonds such persons may not have been so authorized or shall not have held such office. In case any officer whose signature shall appear on any bonds or whose facsimile signature shall appear on any coupon shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 7)
Sec. 1.2.8. - Same; negotiability; exemption from taxation.
All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall have and are hereby declared to have all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under laws of this state. Such bonds are declared to be issued for an essential public and governmental purpose and the said bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the state.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 8)
Sec. 1.2.9. - Same; sale; proceeds.
The commission may sell such bonds in such manner and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interest of the commission and the proceeds derived from the sale of such bonds shall be used solely for the purpose provided in the proceedings authorizing the issuance of such bonds.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 9)
Sec. 1.2.10. - Same; interim receipts and certificates or temporary bonds.
Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the commission may, under like restrictions[,] issue interim receipts, interim certificates or temporary bonds with or without coupons exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 10)
Sec. 1.2.11. - Same; replacement of lost or mutilated bonds.
The commission may also provide for the replacement of any bond or any coupons which shall become mutilated or be destroyed or lost.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 11)
Sec. 1.2.12. - Same; conditions precedent to issuance.
Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions and things which are specified or required by this Act. Any resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this Act shall become effective immediately upon its passage and need not be published or posted, and any such resolution may be passed at any regular or special meeting of the commission by a majority of its members.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 12)
Sec. 1.2.13. - Credit not pledged.
Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of [the] City of Gainesville, Hall County, or the State of Georgia, nor a pledge of the faith and credit of said city, county, or state but such bonds shall be payable solely from the fund hereinafter provided for and the issuance of such revenue bonds shall not directly, indirectly or contingently obligate the said city or said county to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment, and all such bonds shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this section.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 13)
Sec. 1.2.14. - Trust indenture as security.
In the discretion of the commission, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the commission and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign fees, tolls, revenues, earnings or grants to be received by the commission, including the proceeds derived from the sale from time to time of any surplus property of the commission, both real and personal. Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the commission in relation to the acquisition of property, the construction of projects, the maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of projects, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all monies, including the proceeds derived from the sale of property of the commission, both real and personal, and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision and approval of consulting engineers or architects employed or designated by the commission and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the commission. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the commission may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 14)
Sec. 1.2.15. - To whom proceeds of bonds shall be paid.
The commission shall, in the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds to any officer or person who or any agency, bank or trust company which shall act as trustee of such funds and shall hold and apply the same to the purposes hereof, subject to such regulations as this Act and such resolution or trust indenture may provide.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 15)
Sec. 1.2.16. - Sinking fund.
The revenues, fees, tolls and earnings derived from any particular project or projects, regardless of whether or not such fees, earnings and revenues were produced by a particular project for which bonds have been issued and any monies derived from the sale of any properties, both real and personal of the commission, and the proceeds of any grants, unless otherwise pledged and allocated, may be pledged and allocated by the commission to the payment of the principal and interest on revenue bonds of the commission as the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust instrument may provide, and such funds so pledged from whatever source received, which said pledge may include funds received from one or more or all sources, shall be set aside at regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust indenture, into a sinking fund which said sinking fund shall be pledged to and charged with the payment of (1) the interest upon such revenue bonds as such interest shall fall due, (2) the principal of the bonds as the same shall fall due, (3) any premium upon bonds acquired by redemption, payment or otherwise, (4) the necessary charges of the paying agent or agents for paying principal and interest, and (5) any investment fees or charges. The use and disposition of such sinking fund shall be subject to such regulations as may be provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the revenue bonds or in the trust indenture, but, except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be maintained as a trust account for the benefit of all revenue bonds without distinction or priority of one over another. Subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust indenture any surplus monies in the sinking fund may be applied to the purchase or redemption of bonds and any such bonds so purchased or redeemed shall forthwith be cancelled and shall not be reissued, printed and delivered.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 16)
Sec. 1.2.17. - Remedies of bondholders.
Any holder of revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act or any of the coupons appertaining thereto, and the trustee under the trust indenture, if any, except to the extent the rights herein given may be restricted by resolution passed before the issuance of the bonds or by the trust indenture, may, either at law or in equity, by suit action, mandamus, or other proceedings, protect and enforce any and all rights under the laws of the State of Georgia or granted hereunder or under such resolution or trust indenture, and may enforce and compel performance of all duties required by this Act or by such resolution or trust indenture, to be performed by the commission, or any officer thereof, including the fixing, charging, and collecting of revenues, fees, tolls, and other charges for the use of the facilities and services furnished.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 17)
Sec. 1.2.18. - Refunding bonds.
The commission is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the commission for the purpose of funding or refunding any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this Act and then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and premium, if any. The issuance of such funding or refunding bonds, the maturities and all other details thereof, the rights of the holders thereof, and the duties of the commission in respect to the same, shall be governed by the foregoing provisions of this Act insofar as the same may be applicable.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 18)
Sec. 1.2.19. - Venue and jurisdiction.
Any action to protect or enforce any rights under the provisions of this Act or any suit or action against such commission shall be brought in the Superior Court of Hall County, Georgia, and any action pertaining to validation of any bonds issued under the provisions of this Act shall likewise be brought in said court which shall have exclusive, original jurisdiction of such actions.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 19)
Sec. 1.2.20. - Validation.
Bonds of the commission shall be confirmed and validated in accordance with the procedure of the Revenue Bond Law, as now or hereafter amended. The petition for validation shall also make party defendant to such action the State of Georgia or any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or the United States Government or any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States Government, if subject to being sued and if consenting to same, which has contracted with the commission for the services and facilities of or with respect to the project for which bonds are to be issued and sought to be validated and the state or such municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, department, agency, or instrumentality shall be required to show cause, if any, why such contract or contracts and the terms and conditions thereof should not be inquired into by the court and the validity of the terms thereof be determined and the contract or contracts adjudicated as a part of the security for the payment of any such bonds of the commission. The bonds when validated and the judgment of validation shall be final and conclusive with respect to such bonds and the security for the payment thereof and interest thereon and against the commission issuing the same, the state and any municipality, county, authority, political subdivision, department, agency, or instrumentality, if a party to the validation proceedings, contracting with the commission.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 20)
Sec. 1.2.21. - Interest of bondholders protected.
While any of the bonds issued by the commission remain outstanding, the powers, duties or existence of said commission or of its officers, employees or agents shall not be diminished or impaired in any manner that will affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, and no other entity, department, agency or authority will be created which will compete with the commission to such an extent as to affect adversely the interest and rights of the holders of such bonds, nor will the state itself so compete with the commission. The provisions of this Act shall be for the benefit of the commission and the holders of any such bonds, and upon the issuance of bonds under the provisions hereof, shall constitute a contract with the holders of such bonds.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 21)
Sec. 1.2.22. - Moneys received considered trust funds.
All moneys received pursuant to the authority of this Act, whether as proceeds from the sale of revenue bonds, as grants or other contributions, or as revenues, income, fees and earnings, shall be deemed to be trust funds to be held and applied solely as provided in this Act.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 22)
Sec. 1.2.23. - Purpose of the commission.
Without limiting the generality of any provisions of this Act, the general purposes of the commission are declared to be: acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating a recreational center and area or centers and areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, parks, hiking, camping, and picnicking areas and facilities, stadiums, athletic fields and courts, clubhouses, gymnasiums, auditoriums, gymnatoriums, and related buildings, golf courses, pavilions, farmers' markets, nature study centers, and the usual and convenient facilities appertaining to such undertakings and extensions and improvements of such facilities, acquiring the necessary property therefor, both real and personal, and the lease or sale of any part or all of such facilities, including real and personal property, so as to assure the efficient and proper development, maintenance, and operation of such recreational facilities and areas; and doing any and all things deemed by the commission necessary, convenient, or desirable for and incident to the efficient and proper development and operation of such types of undertakings.
(1988 Ga. Laws, p. 3783, § 3)
Sec. 1.2.24. - Rates, charges and revenues; use.
The commission is hereby authorized to prescribe and revise from time to time rates, fees, tolls and charges, and to collect such rates, fees, tolls and charges for the services, facilities or commodities furnished, including leases, concessions or subleases of its lands or facilities, or contracts for the use of its land and facilities, and to determine the price and terms at and under which its lands or facilities may be sold and in anticipation of the collection of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, to issue revenue bonds as herein provided to finance in whole or in part the cost of the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipment, betterment or extension of its lands and facilities and to pledge to the punctual payment of said bonds and interest thereon, all or any part of the revenues and income of such undertakings or projects, including the revenues of improvements, betterments or extensions thereto thereafter made or the sale of any of its land and facilities.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 24)
Sec. 1.2.25. - Rules and regulations for operation of projects.
It shall be the duty of the commission to prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the project or projects constructed under the provisions of this Act, including the basis on which recreational facilities shall be furnished.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 25)
Sec. 1.2.26. - Properties exempt from taxation.
The properties of the commission, both real and personal, are declared to be public properties used for the benefit and welfare of the people of the State of Georgia, and not for purposes of private or corporate benefit and income, and such properties and the commission shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of any city, county, or the state or any political subdivision thereof; provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not prohibit or inhibit the lease or use of commission properties for private purposes which in the sole judgment of the commission support the general purposes of the commission.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 26)
Sec. 1.2.27. - [Annual audit.]
(a)
At the conclusion of each fiscal year of the commission, the affairs of the commission shall be audited by a certified public accounting firm. A synopsis of the audit shall be published in the official organ of Hall County as soon as the report of the auditors is submitted to the commission.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 27)
Editor's note— Subsection (a) is the only subsection in the above section.
Sec. 1.2.28. - Powers declared supplemental and additional.
The foregoing sections of this Act shall be deemed to provide an additional and alternative method for the doing of the things authorized thereby and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to powers conferred by other laws, and shall not be regarded as in derogation of any powers now existing.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 28)
Sec. 1.2.29. - Liberal construction of act.
This Act being for the purpose of promoting the health, morals and general welfare of the citizens of the United States, of the State of Georgia, of Hall County, and of the City of Gainesville, shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 29)
Sec. 1.2.30. - Effect of partial invalidity of act.
Should any sentence, clause, phrase, or part of this Act be declared for any reason to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same shall not affect such remainder of this Act or any part hereof, other than the part so held to be invalid, but the remaining provisions of this Act shall remain in full force and effect, and it is the express intention of this Act to enact each provision of this Act independently of any other provision hereof.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 30)
Sec. 1.2.31. - Repeal.
This Act does not in any way take from the City of Gainesville, Hall County or any municipality located therein, the authority to own, develop, operate and maintain public parks and recreational facilities, or to issue revenue bonds as is provided by the Revenue Bond Law of Georgia.
(1980 Ga. Laws, p. 4054, § 31)
CHAPTER 3. - DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
ARTICLE 1. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 1.3.1. - Land conveyance of property to City of Gainesville authorized.
WHEREAS, the City of Gainesville made a gift of certain property to the State Department of Transportation for use as a right-of-way; and
WHEREAS, a portion of the property is not required for such purposes and is, therefore, surplus property to the State of Georgia; and
WHEREAS, the said portion of property is more particularly described as follows:
"All that tract or parcel of land lying and being in the 9th Land District, Georgia Militia District 411 of Hall County, being more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at a point one hundred twenty-five (125) feet right of center line Station 64 + 50, Department of Transportation Project F-013-1 (19) Loop, Hall County (Queen City Parkway); thence along a bearing of North twenty (20) degrees twenty-one (21) minutes West for a distance of five hundred fourteen point seventy-two (514.72) feet more or less to a point; thence, along a bearing of South twenty-six (26) degrees and forty-eight (48) minutes East for a distance of two hundred fourteen point zero two (214.02) feet more or less to a point; thence, along a bearing of South fifteen (15) degrees and forty (40) minutes East for a distance of three hundred point fifty-five (300.55) feet more or less to the point of beginning.
The above portion of land containing 6,434 Square Feet as shown on plat attached as Exhibit `A.' ";
and
WHEREAS, the City of Gainesville is desirous of obtaining said tract of property for the purpose of constructing a building.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA that the State Department of Transportation is hereby authorized and directed to convey to the City of Gainesville, Georgia, the hereinabove described tract of property for and in consideration of the sum of $10.00.
(1979 Ga. Laws, p. 138)
Editor's note— A photograph of the plat has been omitted.
Secs. 1.3.2—1.3.15. - Reserved.
ARTICLE 2. - STATE OWNED REAL PROPERTIES IN CERTAIN CITIES

Sec. 1.3.16. - Preamble.
The State of Georgia is the owner of certain improved real properties located in the cities of Albany, Dougherty County, Georgia; Augusta, Richmond County, Georgia; Brunswick, Glynn County, Georgia; Carrollton, Carroll County, Georgia; Columbus, Muscogee County, Georgia; Dalton, Whitfield County, Georgia; Gainesville, Hall County, Georgia; Griffin, Spalding County, Georgia; Rome, Floyd County, Georgia; Savannah, Chatham County, Georgia; Statesboro, Bulloch County, Georgia; Valdosta, Lowndes County, Georgia; and Waycross, Ware County, Georgia; and
Such improved real properties are under the custody of the Department of Labor and the physical facilities located thereon are either presently being, or were formerly, used as local offices of the Department of Labor; and
The Department of Labor has determined that such improved real properties and the physical facilities located thereon cannot any longer fulfill its needs and that replacement physical facilities to be situated on real properties at other locations in the same cities or above-referenced counties are necessary.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571)
Sec. 1.3.17. - Property described.
That the above-referenced improved real properties are located in and are more specifically described and referred to as:
(1)
929 West Broad Avenue, Albany, Dougherty County, Georgia;
(2)
425 Ninth Street, Augusta, Richmond County, Georgia;
(3)
1321 Union Street, Brunswick, Glynn County, Georgia;
(4)
1327 Union Street, Brunswick, Glynn County, Georgia;
(5)
705 Maple Street, Carrollton, Carroll County, Georgia;
(6)
1328 Second Avenue, Columbus, Muscogee County, Georgia;
(7)
1327 Third Avenue, Columbus, Muscogee County, Georgia;
(8)
417 West Crawford Street, Dalton, Whitfield County, Georgia;
(9)
410 Bradford Street, N.W., Gainesville, Hall County, Georgia;
(10)
122 East Poplar Street, Griffin, Spalding County, Georgia;
(11)
710 East First Street, Rome, Floyd County, Georgia;
(12)
214 Drayton Street, Savannah, Chatham County, Georgia;
(13)
117 Savannah Avenue, Statesboro, Bulloch County, Georgia;
(14)
809 North Patterson Street, Valdosta, Lowndes County, Georgia; and
(15)
809 Elizabeth Street, Waycross, Ware County, Georgia.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571, § 1)
Sec. 1.3.18. - General authority of state.
That the State of Georgia is the owner of the above-described improved real properties and that, in all matters relating to the disposition by sale, lease, or exchange of said improved real properties, the State of Georgia is acting by and through its State Properties Commission. In its handling of said dispositions by sale, lease, or exchange, the State Properties Commission shall act for the benefit of the Department of Labor in fulfilling the department's above-referenced improved real property replacement needs. Without limiting the foregoing, but by way of illustration, the State Properties Commission may sell, lease, or exchange the above-described real properties for considerations which enable the Department of Labor to acquire other real property, construct and equip replacement facilities, and undertake related activities necessary or convenient thereto. By way of further illustration and notwithstanding Code Section 45-12-92 or any other provision of law, the State Properties Commission may permit any cash consideration received from said dispositions to be retained by the Department of Labor and applied by it to the acquisition, construction, and equipping of such replacement facilities; and, similarly, any in-kind considerations, including, for example, exchanged real property or construction services, may be applied by the department to its replacement needs.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571, § 2)
Sec. 1.3.19. - Disposal of property—Generally.
That the State of Georgia, acting by and through its State Properties Commission, is authorized and empowered, for the benefit of the Department of Labor, to dispose of by sale, lease, or exchange, during the present and following years, the record title of the State of Georgia in and to any or all of the above-described improved real properties for a monetary or in-kind consideration of not less than the fair market value of each parcel of said improved real properties and upon such other terms and conditions as the State Properties Commission shall determine to be in the best interest of and most advantageous to the State of Georgia and to its Department of Labor. If any such disposition of said above-described improved real properties is by sale or exchange the conveyance by the State of Georgia shall be by quitclaim deed.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571, § 3)
Sec. 1.3.20. - Same—Authority of State Properties Commission.
That the State Properties Commission is authorized and empowered to do all acts and to impose all requirements it deems necessary and proper to effect a disposition by sale, lease, or exchange of each respective parcel of said above-described improved real properties. As an indispensable part of the grant of authority contained in this Act, it is further provided that before any transaction authorized hereby may be consummated or closed that 30 days in advance thereof the State Properties Commission shall report the full terms and conditions of such transaction to the chairmen of the House Committee on State Institutions and Property and the Senate Committee on Public Utilities.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571, § 4)
Sec. 1.3.21. - Plat of survey.
That, for purposes of compliance with the provisions of paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-16-122, requiring that a conveyance of real property by the State of Georgia be filed with the Secretary of State and accompanied by a plat of survey of the property conveyed, the plat of survey of each of the parcels of the above-described improved real properties, the dispositions of which by sale, lease, or exchange are authorized by this resolution, approved by the State Properties Commission shall constitute an acceptable plat of survey of that particular parcel for filing with the Secretary of State.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 571, § 5)
