Chapter 50 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— The ordinance passed on December 14, 1988, by the Carroll County board of health entitled "Carroll County Rules and Regulations for On-site Sewage Management Systems" is on file for review in the office of the clerk of the board of commissioners.
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; animals, ch. 14; buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 38; natural resources, ch. 62; offenses, ch. 66; solid waste, ch. 82.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 50-1—50-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - TOBACCO SMOKING

Sec. 50-26. - Designation of smoking and nonsmoking areas; signs.
All county-owned, county-operated, or county-leased office space, buildings and facilities in the county shall be designated either "smoking" or "nonsmoking" in accordance with the provisions in this section:
(1)
The county board of commissioners or its designee shall place signs in all open office areas, employee work areas, restrooms, reception areas, lobbies, conference rooms, elevators, stairwells, and any indoor area accessible to the general public designating whether smoking is or is not permitted.
(2)
Any area outlined in subsection (1) of this section not explicitly designated and signed in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be a nonsmoking area.
(3)
All outdoor areas shall be designated smoking areas unless safety regulations require otherwise.
(4)
It shall be a violation of this article to smoke in any area designated a "nonsmoking area" under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 3-8-90, § I)
Sec. 50-27. - Citations for failure to comply; penalty for violation of article.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in violation of this article. The county board of commissioners or its designee has the power to issue citations for failure to comply with this article. Jurisdiction shall lie in the county magistrate's court. Violators of this article shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
(Ord. of 3-8-90, § II)
