Chapter 94 - TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 6; civil emergencies, ch. 30; law enforcement, ch. 54; offenses, ch. 66; roads and bridges, ch. 74.
State Law reference— Deposit of driver's license for violations of laws pertaining to traffic and motor vehicles, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-11; prosecution of traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-1 et seq.; alteration of speed limits by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-183; uniform Rules of the Road, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-1 et seq.; power of local authorities generally, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371; adoption of uniform rules of the road by local authorities, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-372; authority to provide devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const., art. 9, sec. 2, par. 3(a)(4).

Sec. 94-1. - Uniform rules of the road adopted.
(a)
O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-372—40-6-376, O.C.G.A. §§ 40-6-2—40-6-395, known as the uniform rules of the road, and the definitions contained in O.C.G.A. § 40-1-1 are hereby adopted as the traffic regulations of the county with the same effect as if recited in this section.
(b)
Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state law, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section shall be punished in accordance with section 1-13.
Sec. 94-2. - Entering or staying upon restricted intersections; exceptions; enforcement.
(a)
Intent and purpose. The county is dedicated to preserving and protecting the health, safety, and welfare of all pedestrians, motor vehicle drivers, motor vehicle passengers and other individuals who utilize the public rights-of-way in the county. Pedestrians are increasingly using highways in ways for which the roads were not designed. These uses include approaching vehicles when in use or staying upon medians for purposes other than crossing the highway. These activities create safety hazards for pedestrians and distract drivers, making automobile crashes more likely. This section is designed to decrease the safety hazards by restricting such activity. These safety concerns are most acute at the intersections on the busiest roads within the county. This section applies to those "restricted intersections" identified in subsection (b) below.
(b)
Definitions. As used in this section,
Intersection shall mean the area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two roads or highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roads or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
Restricted intersection shall mean the first 200 feet of each highway or road of the following Intersections:
• US Highway 27 intersection with Columbia Drive/Linda Lane
• US Highway 27 intersection with Bowdon Junction Road
• US Highway 27 intersection with Stripling Chapel Road
• GA Highway 113 intersection with Linda Lane/Northside Drive
• GA Highway 166 Bypass and GA Highway 166 (aka Maple Street)
• GA Highway 61 (aka Carrollton Villa Rica Highway) and GA Highway 166
• GA Highway 61 (aka Carrollton Villa Rica Highway) and Old Airport Road
• GA Highway 61 (aka Carrollton Villa Rica Highway) and Old Highway 61
• GA Highway 61 (aka Carrollton Villa Rica Highway) and Midway Church Drive
• South Van Wert Road and NE Hickory Level Road
Median shall mean a paved or unpaved area dividing a roadway or highway that separates lanes of traffic traveling in opposite directions, or in the case of left or right hand turn lanes, vehicles traveling in the same direction.
(c)
Restricted activities.
(1)
No pedestrian who is in a vehicle travel lane, median, sidewalk or other area adjoining a vehicle travel lane of a restricted intersection may approach any vehicle in operation.
(2)
No pedestrian shall be within a restricted intersection and approach any vehicle in operation, except a vehicle that is legally parked at the curb or the shoulder.
(3)
No person shall be upon a median of a restricted intersection unless that person is in the process of crossing the road in a safety zone or crosswalk or other legal manner.
(d)
Exceptions. This section does not apply to (i) persons using the safety zone or crosswalk to cross the road, (ii) persons engaged in law enforcement or rescue activities, including providing assistance to an injured or disabled vehicle or person, (iii) persons entering a vehicle as an invited passenger where it is lawful to do so, (iv) persons engaged in repair or maintenance activities on the road or highway under the direction or authority of the county or the State of Georgia; or (v) roads or portions thereof that have been closed pursuant to permit or other express authorization from the county.
(e)
Enforcement. This section may be enforced by the county sheriff, any law enforcement official (including without limitation Georgia State Patrol), the county code and ordinance enforcement officer, or their deputies or designees.
(f)
Penalty. Any person violating this section may be required to forfeit not less than $25.00 nor more than $300.00 for each violation.
(Ord. of 10-2-18(1))
