ARTICLE VIII. - MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE BY THE DRINK

Sec. 6-121. - Type of retail establishment where permitted.
No beer or wine shall be sold for consumption on the premises where sold except in sites in areas zoned commercial, industrial and planned unit development and which are being used as one of the following:
(1)
Eating establishments regularly serving prepared food with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department. Such restaurant will regularly serve food every hour the Restaurant is open and shall derive at least 50 percent of the establishment's total annual gross sales from food;
(2)
Indoor commercial recreation establishments regularly serving prepared food with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department. Such establishment will regularly serve food every hour the restaurant is open and shall derive at least 50 percent of its total annual gross revenue from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities;
(3)
Indoor publicly owned civic and cultural centers capable of serving prepared food, with a full service kitchen. A full service kitchen will consist of a three-compartment pot sink, a stove or grill permanently installed, and a refrigerator, all of which must be approved by the environmental health department; prepared to serve food every hour they are open and deriving at least 50 percent of its total annual gross sales from the sale of prepared meals or foods and recreation activities. When eating establishments are located in hotels or motels, every entrance to the establishment shall be from a public lobby, hallway, mall or other publicly used interior portion of the primary use structure; or
(4)
At a golf course that derives at least 50 percent of its annual gross revenue from the sale of prepared meals or food and recreation activities, i.e. golf. These eating establishments must be located in a zoning district which permits restaurants and drive-in restaurants as conforming uses or where these eating establishments are incidental to a hotel or motel.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-122. - Hours and days of sale.
EXPAND
(a) Monday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(b) Tuesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(c) Wednesday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(d) Thursday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(e) Friday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(f) Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
(g) Sunday No sales.
(h) No beer and/or wine shall be sold for consumption at any time in violation of any local ordinance or regulation or of any special order of the board of commissioners.
  (Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Secs. 6-123—6-130. - Reserved.
