ARTICLE V. - MOTOR VEHICLE POLICY

Sec. 2-126. - Generally.
County employees will be provided vehicles to the extent feasible where needed to conduct county business. Vehicles may be assigned to a department for collective use or to an individual. Because an assignment to an individual employee for his or her exclusive use means that the county will incur both operating expense and depreciation of the value of the vehicle when it is driven for personal use (such as commuting), as well as for approved business use, such assignments will be avoided wherever possible.
Where vehicles are used in a shared environment, vehicles will be assigned to a particular department. Criteria will be provided below to determine authorization for a vehicle assigned to an individual. Requirements for documenting each vehicle assignment, both for work day use and commuting use, are also specified.
This policy will specifically not apply to vehicles routinely used by sworn P.O.S.T. certified/registered law enforcement officers in a secured environment for surveillance and/or undercover investigative work where knowledge of the identity of a vehicle or officer is potentially life-threatening.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Sec. 2-127. - Assignment of vehicles for work day use.
Vehicles will be assigned to an individual employee only where it is necessary to conduct county business and where such assignment results in less cost to the county than reimbursing employees for the expenses they incur in the use of their private vehicle for county business.
In addition, the following conditions must be met:
(1)
For each year an employee is assigned a vehicle, the employee must drive at least 10,000+ county business miles [10]. If after any one year of assignment, an employee does not drive 10,000 county miles, and the employee fails to drive 1500 miles the following quarter, the vehicle may no longer be assigned to the employee.
(2)
If the total county business miles driven by an employee assigned a vehicle fails to exceed 10,000 business miles in a year, for the employee to continue being assigned a vehicle, the vehicle must:
a.
Have special equipment or be used to transport equipment which is too large or heavy or has special features which make it impractical to be transferred between vehicles or between a vehicle and a fixed location;
b.
Have a two-way radio which is used at least once per week to either give directions or receive directions which are a necessity to the ongoing operations of a particular department; or
c.
Be required to drive to sites or under conditions which would endanger privately owned vehicles.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Footnotes:
--- (10) ---
The 10,000 minimum number of miles specified refer solely to those miles driven exclusively for county business. Miles driven between employees' residences and their work stations are not county business miles.

Sec. 2-128. - Authorization for vehicles to be driven home overnight and on-call duty.
(a)
Employees are not authorized to drive county vehicles to and from their residences on a routine basis except:
(1)
A vehicle is for emergency use or is specially equipped and used for a related purpose; or
(2)
There is evidence of vandalism at the employee's work site and security cannot be obtained for a modest cost nearby.
(b)
On-call. An employee who is on-call after normal work hours is authorized to drive a vehicle home only if the employee does not anticipate reporting to his "normal" work-site when called to duty and if the vehicle:
(1)
Has special equipment, is used to transport equipment which is too large or heavy, or has special features which make it impractical to be transferred between vehicles or between a vehicle and a fixed location; or
(2)
Is required to be driven in sites or under conditions which would endanger a privately-owned vehicle.
In addition, the number of employees in a department who are assigned to have on-call responsibilities each evening or weekend and are required to drive vehicles home will be kept to a minimum. Where employees can be used interchangeably for assigned functions and no clear-cut geographical assignments are necessary for the on-call work, such assignments should be rotated among the unit's employees so that only one or a few employees will be designated as on-call each evening. Only those employees actually on-call are authorized to drive county vehicles to and from their residence.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Sec. 2-129. - Documentation of vehicle assignments.
The justification for each vehicle assignment, including those vehicles presently assigned by departments must be documented on Form MV-1. Justification for an employee to drive a vehicle home on a routine basis must also file Form MV-1. This form is to be resubmitted annually by each employee or the department head. The form is due to the office of the commission chairman by January 31 of the following year.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Sec. 2-130. - Marking of vehicles.
All vehicles, unless otherwise authorized, will be marked, by having the county seal and some departmental designation placed on their front doors. The only vehicle which shall be exempt from having the county seal placed on it is the vehicle assigned to the chairman of the county commission. All vehicles will have affixed county government tags.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Sec. 2-131. - Record keeping and reporting.
Each department will utilize the vehicle identification number unique to each vehicle and will maintain a file which will identify each vehicle it owns, contain proof of insurance, match each vehicle assigned to an employee with the assigned employee, provide initial and annual justification for the assignment in conformity with sections 2-127 and 2-128, provide initial and ongoing justification for any exceptions to the marking and tagging provisions of this policy memorandum, identify all county business miles driven and all personal miles driven, identify all commuting use, all maintenance records. Departments have the option of keeping all information in a file either in a central site or at the operating units.
This section will apply to all vehicles covered by the policy with the exception that no information on vehicles used by sworn, POST-certified/registered law enforcement officers, performing undercover law enforcement activities such that knowledge of the identities of the officers or their vehicles could potentially be life-threatening, will be shared or maintained in an environment where access by another agency is possible.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Sec. 2-132. - Accounting for commuting use of vehicles for federal reporting.
With the exception of certified law enforcement officers who carry firearms and use vehicles for bona fide arrests, all employees who drive vehicles to and from their residences, including agency heads, are considered by the Internal Revenue Code to have derived gross income from such use of their vehicles. The Internal Revenue Code permits most employees to value commuting use at $1.50 per one-way trip. Each employee is also permitted to value such use as a prorated portion of the lease value of his or her vehicle based on the ratio of personal miles driven to total miles driven. The Internal Revenue Code requires that such income be reported with other gross income on individuals' income tax returns, and that taxes and FICA be paid on such income.
The Internal Revenue Code also requires that employees report the number of commuting trips they make to their employers, that the employers withhold associated taxes and FICA, that the employers report such income and withholdings on individual employees' W-2 forms, and that the employers remit to the Internal Revenue Service the employers' share of any owed FICA.
Generally, trips between one's home and office are considered to be commuting. Exceptions are limited to those noted for employees maintaining their principal offices in their homes and for sworn law enforcement officers going officially on patrol when they leave their homes.
Form MV-2 is intended to be used for employees' reporting; however, other methods can be used instead. An approved simplified method of compliance is for an agency to withhold taxes and FICA at a rate of $3.00 per day for a specific number of days per pay period for each employee who regularly commutes (for example, $24.00 per pay period assuming average commuting use of eight days per period). At the end of each calendar year, agencies should adjust their employer shares of FICA payments based on employees' reported actual commuting trips. Similarly, employees should report their actual number of commuting trips on their tax forms and either remit additional payments or claim refunds accordingly.
(Ord. of 5-13-97)
Secs. 2-133—2-140. - Reserved.
