ARTICLE I. - TITLE, DEFINITIONS

Sec. 6-1. - Title.
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Carroll County Alcohol Ordinance."
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Sec. 6-2. - Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless context otherwise requires, the following terms are hereby defined:
Alcohol means ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverage, wine or fortified wine.
Alcohol treatment facility means any facility in which treatment, counseling and other services are rendered for alcohol dependency.
Beer or malt beverage means any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other product, or any combination of such products in water containing not more than 14 percent alcohol by volume and including ale, porter, brown, stout, lager beer, small beer, and strong beer. Also included are beverages known as "non-alcoholic" beer, which is made by fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley, malt, hops or other products, and containing less than three percent, but more than 0.1 percent alcohol by volume. The term "malt beverage" does not include sake, known as Japanese rice wine.
Board of commissioners means the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County, Georgia, also known as the board.
County means Carroll County, Georgia.
Day care facility means the use of a building or premises for the care and supervision of children or adults, who do not reside on the property, for periods of less than 24 hours. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "day care center (19+)," "day care home," "family (6 or fewer)," and "day care home, group (7—18)," shall carry the state definitions for such operations.
Distilled spirits or spirituous liquor means any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation or containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume including, but not limited to, all fortified wines.
Drug store means any store which sells primarily health care products and which has a pharmacy that supplies prescription medications.
Employee permit means an authorization granted by the county to employees of a licensed retail consumption dealer to dispense, sell, serve, take orders, or mix alcoholic beverages in establishments licensed as a retail consumption dealer. Additionally this permit authorizes employees of a retail dealer (liquor store, package store) to sell alcoholic beverages in that establishment.
Fortified wine means any alcoholic beverage containing more than 21 percent alcohol by volume made from fruits, berries, or grapes, either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. "Fortified wine" includes, but is not limited to, brandy.
Grocery store means a store which sells primarily food, and which has a produce department and a meat department.
Hotel means a building(s) in which overnight accommodations, without separate cooking facilities are provided to the public. The term "hotel" includes the terms "motel" and "tourist court."
Housing authority means any property containing 300 housing units or fewer owned or operated by a housing authority created under the State Housing Authorities Law.
Indoor recreation facility (private) means an indoor area or establishment that offers various recreation or amusement.
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any holder of a license issued under this chapter for the retail sale of beer, wine, and/or distilled spirits by the drink, who is a licensed caterer, who is otherwise qualified under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 3-11-1 et seq., and who obtains a license to sell alcoholic beverages at authorized special events.
Licensee means the individual to whom a license for the sale or distribution of distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine is issued under this chapter. In the case of a partnership or corporation, all partners, officers, and directors of the partnership or corporation are licensees.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, cooperative, nonprofit membership corporation, joint venture, association, company, corporation, agency, syndicate, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, fiduciary, or other group or combination acting as a unit, body politic, or political subdivision, whether public, private, or quasi-public.
Place of worship means a building or structure, or groups of buildings or structures, primarily intended for conducting organized religious services. Associated accessory uses include, but are not limited to: schools, meeting halls, indoor and outdoor recreational facilities, day care counseling, kitchens and outdoor meetings (including tent meetings).
Restaurant means an establishment where meals or refreshments may be purchased by the general public for consumption on, or off its premises.
Retail dealer means persons other than brewers, distillers or wholesale dealers who sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wines irrespective of the quantities sold.
School means a facility used for education or instruction in any branch or knowledge.
Wholesale dealer means persons other than brewers who sell malt beverages, wines or distilled spirits to retail dealers for purposes of resale only.
Wine means any alcoholic beverage containing not more than 21 percent alcohol made from fruits, berries, or grapes either by natural fermentation or by natural fermentation with brandy added. "Wine" includes, but is not limited to, all sparkling wines, champagnes, combinations of such beverages, vermouths, special natural wines, rectified wines, and like products. The term "wine" does not include cooking wine mixed with salt or other ingredients so as to render it unfit for human consumption as a beverage. A liquid shall first be deemed to be a wine at the point in the manufacturing process when it conforms to the definition of wine contained in this section.
(Ord. of 8-6-13, § 1)
Secs. 6-3—6-20. - Reserved.
