Chapter 98 - UTILITIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; utility easements in subdivisions, § 86-32.
State Law reference— Authority to provide stormwater, sewerage, sewage collection and disposal systems, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(6); authority to provide for the development, storage and distribution of water, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(7); water resources, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-1 et seq.; waterwell standards, O.C.G.A. § 12-5-120 et seq.; dumping certain wastes in storm or sanitary sewers prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-2; adoption of ordinances, rules and regulations relating to payment for street improvements and construction of water, gas and sewer connections; payment of costs of connections, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-7.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 98-1. - Penalty for violation of chapter.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may, upon conviction, be punished as provided in section 1-13.
Secs. 98-2—98-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 98-31. - Removal or relocation of facilities.
Whenever necessary for the construction, repair, improvement, maintenance, safe and effective operation, alteration or relocation of all or any portion of a road upon which a utility facility has been placed, as determined by the county, any or all of such facilities and appurtenances authorized pursuant to this chapter shall be immediately removed from the right-of-way, or reset or relocated thereon as required by the county, and at the sole expense of the permittee unless reimbursement is authorized by separate agreement. Should the permittee fail to remove or relocate its facilities upon reasonable notice from the county, the permittee shall be liable for any costs or damages incurred by the county as a result thereof.
Sec. 98-32. - Indemnification of county.
Any person granted a permit pursuant to this article shall indemnify and hold harmless the county and all officers, employees, or agents of the county against any and all claims, damages, actions, causes of action, costs and expenses of whatsoever nature, which may result from any injury to, or the death of, any persons or from the loss of, or damage to, property of any kind or nature, when such injury, death, loss or damages arises out of the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, removal or relocation of the facilities covered by the permit.
Sec. 98-33. - Limit of county's obligations.
The county, its engineers, officers, employees or contractors, shall not be held responsible or liable for injury or damage that may occur to facilities covered by any permit granted pursuant to this article, or to any connection or connections thereto, by reason of road maintenance and construction activities or highway contract or operations. The permit holder shall be notified of a construction conflict and given a reasonable time to mark or relocate its facilities.
Sec. 98-34. - Schedule.
If the county undertakes to improve the road upon which a utility facility has been placed, it shall be the responsibility of the permittee pursuant to this article to plan with the county and its contractor a schedule which will clearly set forth at which stage of operations the permittee will be required to perform any adjustment to its facilities necessary to accommodate the road improvements.
Sec. 98-35. - Safety features.
During the initial installation or construction of facilities authorized by any permit granted pursuant to this article, or during any future repair, removal or relocation thereof, the permittee shall at all times maintain flagmen, signs, lights, flares, barricades and any other safety devices in accordance with the state department of transportation's Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and as may be necessary to properly protect traffic upon the road and to warn and safeguard the public against injury or damage. Any ditching or trenching shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal regulations.
Sec. 98-36. - Verification of limits of right-of-way.
It shall be the permittee's sole responsibility to verify the limits of the public right-of-way for location of the utility facilities authorized by any permit granted pursuant to this article.
Sec. 98-37. - Abutting landowners.
No inherent or retained right or privilege of any abutting property owner is affected by any permit granted pursuant to this article, nor is the county to be held responsible for any claim which may develop between the permittee and any property owner concerning use of the right-of-way. The permittee is solely responsible for maintaining reasonable access to private driveways during installation of its facilities and for restoration of driveways after completion of the installation to the owner's satisfaction.
Sec. 98-38. - Use of explosives.
Use of explosives within the roadbed or beneath the pavement is prohibited unless approved by separate permit.
Sec. 98-39. - Notice of beginning work.
The permittee shall give the county a minimum of 24 hours' notice prior to beginning any work under any permit granted pursuant to this article.
Secs. 98-40—98-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - PERMIT

Sec. 98-51. - Required; application.
Any person seeking permission to construct, operate and/or maintain any utility within the public right-of-way of any county road of the county shall apply for a permit to the department of roads and bridges, upon an application form provided by such department.
Sec. 98-52. - Time limit.
Any permit granted pursuant to this article shall be void unless work thereunder is begun within 12 months of the date of approval.
Sec. 98-53. - Transferability.
The provisions of any permit granted pursuant to this article are regulatory and not contractual. No interest or right of an applicant granted a permit may be transferred to another except by written consent of the county.
Sec. 98-54. - Revocation.
Any permit granted pursuant to this article may be revoked at the pleasure of the county upon 30 days' written notice to the permittee.
Sec. 98-55. - Special provisions.
The county may impose any special provisions upon the granting of a permit pursuant to this article that it deems in the best interest and welfare of the public.
Sec. 98-56. - Limitations.
(a)
No property right generated by permit. Any permit granted pursuant to this article is permissive only, and the placing of any facilities upon public property pursuant to any permit granted pursuant to this article shall not operate to create or vest any property right in the holder thereof.
(b)
Design or construction details. Approval of any permit granted pursuant to this article does not constitute approval of design or construction details for the proposed facilities. The permittee is solely responsible for compliance with all applicable governmental codes and regulations.
Secs. 98-57—98-70. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL

Sec. 98-71. - Purpose of article.
The county board of commissioners adopts the cross connection control provisions as set forth in section 98-72 in order to avoid liabilities and possible contamination of the water supply of the county and any of its municipalities with private well supplies at cross connections.
Sec. 98-72. - Policies.
The following policies will be enacted:
(1)
The interior use of combined well and county/city water for residential customers is not authorized under any conditions or circumstances.
(2)
Water pipes from wells to the interior of residences are to be stubbed off at residential customers' expense, and then inspected by a county/city water department official to ensure compliance before county/city water is authorized for use.
(3)
Wells may continue in use for any outside watering purposes around the homes of residential customers who elect to request county/city water service.
(4)
Backflow preventors are not authorized for use by residential customers in conjunction with their wells under any conditions or circumstances. This will preclude possible contamination of the county/city water supply due to any future malfunction of the backflow preventor, and any future inspection requirements on the part of county/city employees.
