ARTICLE XI. - BOARD OF ELECTIONS[11]

Footnotes:
--- (11) ---
Editor's note— Printed herein is 1997 Ga. Laws, page 4592 which recreated the board of elections. Amendments to the act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.

Section 1. - Created.
There is created in and for Carroll County the Carroll County Board of Elections which shall succeed to all the powers and duties of that board of elections established in and for counties having a population of not less than 45,000 and not more than 50,000, according to the 1970 United States decennial census or any future such census pursuant to an Act approved March 28, 1974 (Ga. L. 1974, p. 3556), as amended. The Carroll County Board of Elections so created, sometimes referred to in this Act as the "board," is empowered with the powers and duties of the election superintendent relating to the conduct of primaries and elections and, upon the date this section becomes effective in 2004, shall be designated as the Carroll County Board of Elections and Registration and also be empowered with the powers and duties of the Carroll County Board of Registrars relating to the registration of voters and absentee ballot procedures.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 2, 5-17-04)
Section 2. - Composition; appointment.
(a)
The terms of office of members of the board serving as such on June 30, 2004, shall expire on July 1, 2004, or the date the third member of the newly constituted three-person board is appointed and takes office pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, whichever date is later. If the three members of the newly constituted board have not been appointed and taken office by July 1, 2004, the holdover members of the five-person board shall exercise the powers of the board until the three members of the newly constituted board have taken office.
(b)
Except as provided in subsection (a) of this section, the board shall be composed of three members, each of whom shall be an elector and a resident of Carroll County. All members of the board shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County.
(c)
The initial term of office of one member of the newly constituted board, as designated in that person's appointment, shall expire December 31, 2005; the initial term of one member of the newly constituted board, as designated in that person's appointment, shall expire December 31, 2006; and the initial term of one member of the newly constituted board, as designated in that person's appointment, shall expire December 31, 2007. Successors to members whose terms of office expire shall be appointed as provided in subsection (b) of this section to serve for terms of office of three years each. Members shall serve the designated terms of office and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(d)
Each board member shall be eligible to succeed himself or herself and shall have the right to resign at any time by giving notice of his or her resignation to the appointing body. Each member shall be subject to removal from the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing by the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 2, 5-17-04)
Section 3. - Election supervisor.
The Board of Commissioners of Carroll County shall appoint a person to serve as the election supervisor of Carroll County. Such position shall be full time and such person shall be paid a salary to be set by that board of commissioners and payable from county funds. The election supervisor shall generally direct and control the administration of elections and voter registration in Carroll County. The election supervisor shall be supervised by the board and shall be subject to removal by the board at any time for cause, after notice and hearing. Said removal shall be subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners of Carroll County. The election supervisor shall not be a member of the board or an elected official.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 2, 5-17-04)
Section 4. - Election of chairperson.
The board shall elect one of its members to serve as chairperson for a term of two years.
Section 5. - Compensation.
Compensation for the chairperson and members of the board shall be such as may be fixed by the governing authority of Carroll County.
Section 6. - Powers and duties.
The board shall have the following powers and duties:
(1)
It shall succeed to and exercise all of the duties granted to and incumbent upon the election superintendent of Carroll County pursuant to the provisions of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., as now or hereafter amended, and any other provision of law;
(1.1)
It is empowered with all the powers and duties relating to the registration of voters and absentee balloting procedures as boards of registrars pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2 of Title 21 of the O.C.G.A., the "Georgia Election Code."
(2)
It shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations consistent with law and with the rules and regulations of the state executive committee of each political party governing the conduct of primaries to the end that, insofar as practicable, all primaries shall be uniformly conducted by the board, poll workers shall be properly trained, and voters shall be adequately informed and instructed. Any rule or regulation promulgated by a county executive committee under the provisions of Code Section 21-2-111 of the O.C.G.A., relating to the conduct of primaries, shall be null and void if in conflict with a valid rule or regulation of the board; and
(3)
It shall be responsible for the selection, appointment, and training of poll workers in elections, and such workers shall be appointed, insofar as practicable, from lists provided to the board by the county executive committee of each political party.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 3, 5-17-04)
Section 7. - Organization; rules and regulations.
The board shall be authorized and empowered to organize itself, determine its procedural rules and regulations, adopt bylaws, specify the functions and duties of its employees, and otherwise take such action as is appropriate to the management of the affairs committed to its supervision; provided, however, that no such action shall be in conflict with any other provision of law.
Section 7.1. - Relief of the board of registrars.
Effective on the date this section becomes effective in 2004, the Board of Registrars of Carroll County shall be relieved from all powers and duties to which the board of elections and registration succeeds by the provisions of this Act and shall deliver thereafter to the chairperson of the board, upon the chairperson's written request, the custody of all equipment, supplies, materials, books, papers, records, and facilities of every kind pertaining to such powers and duties.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 4, 5-17-04)
Section 7.2. - Authorization for employees for the board of elections.
The board shall be authorized to employ such full-time and part-time employees, including a full-time chief clerk, with the consent of the governing authority of Carroll County.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 4, 5-17-04)
Section 7.3. - Provision for offices and equipment.
The governing authority of Carroll County shall provide the board and the election supervisor with proper and suitable offices and equipment.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 4, 5-17-04)
Section 7.4. - Authority to provide services for county municipalities.
The board is authorized to perform for any municipality located wholly or partially within Carroll County any functions and duties which election superintendents and board of registrars are authorized by general law to perform on behalf of municipalities under such conditions as provided by general law.
(2004 Ga. Laws, Act. 618, § 4, 5-17-04)
Section 8. - Authorization to expend public funds.
With the consent of the governing authority of Carroll County, the board shall be authorized to expend public funds for the purpose of distributing sample ballots, voter information booklets, and other material designed to inform and instruct adequately electors of the county with regard to elections.
Section 9. - Offices; assistants and other employees.
The governing authority of Carroll County shall provide the board with such proper and suitable offices and with such clerical assistants and other employees as the governing authority shall deem appropriate.
Section 10. - Enactment authority.
This Act is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Code Section 21-2-40 of the O.C.G.A. to create boards of election and registration by local Act.
Section 11. - Submission of Act to U.S. Attorney General.
It shall be the duty of the governing authority of Carroll County to require the attorney therefor to submit this Act, pursuant to Section 5 of the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, to the United States Attorney General for approval.
