Chapter 54 - TAXATION[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— County ad valorem taxation, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-220 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 54-1—54-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - JOINT SALES AND USE TAX[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Joint county and municipal sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-80 et seq.

Sec. 54-19. - Imposed.
There is imposed a joint sales and use tax of one percent in the county, as authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-8-82; and the ordinance from which this section is derived is adopted pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 48-8-86, requiring the board of commissioners to adopt a resolution imposing the tax authorized by O.C.G.A. § 48-8-82.
(Code 2000, § 54-31; Res. of 3-23-1981)
Editor's note— Pursuant to an election held March 17, 1981, county voters approved imposition of the joint sales and use tax.
Secs. 54-20—54-41. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SPECIAL COUNTY ONE PERCENT SALES AND USE TAX[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
State Law reference— Special county one percent sales and use tax, O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.

Sec. 54-42. - Authorized; use of proceeds.
(a)
There is authorized to be levied and collected within the county an additional sales and use tax in the amount of one percent on all sales and uses within the county as provided in O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq., for the following purposes:
(1)
Acquiring, constructing, installing and equipping detention facilities, together with law enforcement facilities and offices and administrative offices, and public parking areas and other structures or facilities useful or desirable in connection with such facilities, acquiring all necessary property for such facilities, both real and personal, to pay expenses necessary to accomplish the foregoing;
(2)
Retiring previously incurred general obligation debt, the proceeds of which were used for the construction of a multipurpose recreational facility of the county;
(3)
Retiring previously incurred general obligation debt, the proceeds of which were used for the renovation and expansion of the county's jail;
(4)
Retiring previously incurred general obligation debt, the proceeds of which were used for the acquisition of land for the expansion of the county's solid waste disposal facility;
(5)
Acquiring, constructing, installing and equipping capital outlay projects to be operated by the Fitzgerald and Ben Hill County Development Authority for the use and benefit of the citizens of the entire county for the purpose of developing and promoting trade, commerce, employment, cultural and agricultural opportunities, including the acquisition, renovation and improvement of industrial, commercial, recreational and cultural facilities and other projects that will promote the economic and public welfare in the county; and to pay expenses incident to accomplishing these purposes.
(b)
As required by O.C.G.A. § 48-8-111(a):
(1)
The proceeds of such special-purpose sales and use tax are to be used to finance the projects set forth in subsection (a) of this section, each of which is for the use and benefit of the citizens of the entire county;
(2)
Such sales and use tax is authorized to be imposed for a period of time not to exceed 20 consecutive calendar quarters (five years), beginning July 1, 1995, and continuing until June 30, 2000, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 48-8-110 et seq.;
(3)
The maximum cost of the capital outlay projects other than for road, street and bridge purposes to be funded from the proceeds of such sales and use tax is $9,200,000.00; and
(4)
The maximum cost of the projects to be financed with general obligation bonds is $6,000,000.00.
(Code 2000, § 54-61; Res. of 1-13-1995)
Editor's note— Pursuant to an election held March 21, 1995, county voters approved imposition of the special county one-percent sales and use tax.
Secs. 54-43—54-72. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - FREEPORT EXEMPTION[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
State Law reference— Freeport exemption, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-48.2.

Sec. 54-73. - Granted.
Pursuant to Ga. Const. art. VII, § I, ¶ I, 100 percent of the value of the following classes of tangible personal property are exempted from ad valorem taxation effective January 1, 1980:
(1)
Inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production, which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use for consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the state. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall apply only to tangible personal property which is substantially modified, altered, or changed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing, processing, or production operations in the state. For purposes of this subsection, the following activities shall constitute substantial modification in the ordinary course of manufacturing, processing, or production operations:
a.
The cleaning, drying, pest control treatment, or segregation by grade of grain, peanuts or other oil seeds, or cotton;
b.
The remanufacture of aircraft engines or aircraft engine parts or components, meaning the substantial overhauling or rebuilding of aircraft engines or aircraft engine parts or components; and
c.
The blending of fertilizer bulk materials into a custom mixture, whether performed at a commercial fertilizer blending plant, retail outlet, or any application site;
(2)
Inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced in the state in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is produced or manufactured; or
(3)
Inventory of finished goods that on January 1 are stored in a warehouse, dock or wharf, whether public or private, and that are destined for shipment to a final destination outside the state and inventory of finished goods shipped into the state from outside the state and stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state, including foreign merchandise in transit. The exemption provided for in this subsection shall be for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date such property is stored in the state. Such period shall be determined based on application of a first-in, first-out method of accounting for the inventory. The official books and records of the warehouse, dock, or wharf where such property is being stored shall contain a full, true, and accurate inventory of all such property, including the date of the receipt of the property, the date of the withdrawal of the property, the point of origin of the property, and the point of final destination of the same, if known. The official books and records of any such warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, pertaining to any such property for which a freeport exemption has been claimed shall be at all times open to the inspection of all taxing authorities of the state and of any political subdivision of the state.
(Code 2000, § 54-96)
