Chapter 32 - MANUFACTURED HOMES

Sec. 32-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Building permit means a duly authorized form, signed by the city council, authorizing the location of a mobile home or the construction of an accessory structure, cabana or other improvement.
Cabana means a semipermanent addition to a mobile home measuring no greater than 900 square feet.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term "manufactured home" shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq.
Mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on-site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. The unit must bear a HUD certificate. A mobile home is constructed in accordance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards and bears an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
Mobile home pad means the paved portion of a mobile home stand equal to the length and width of the mobile home placed on the stand.
Mobile home park means any park, court, camp, site, lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying a location of accommodations for mobile homes and upon which any mobile homes are parked, and shall include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof whether a charge is made for the use of the mobile home park and its facilities or not. The term "mobile home park" shall not include automobile or mobile home sales lots on which unoccupied mobile homes are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
Mobile home stand means the improved site designed for the placement of a mobile home and its accessory structures, utility connections and off-street parking facilities.
Modular home means an industrialized single-family dwelling which is manufactured in accordance with the applicable state law. Each unit must bear a seal of approval issued by the commissioner of the state department of community affairs (DCA).
Recreational vehicle means a boat trailer and any type of portable structure without permanent foundations, which can be towed, hauled or driven and may be designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use, and includes travel trailers, truck campers on or off the truck, camping trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
Trailer means any vehicle or structure constructed so as to permit occupancy thereof as sleeping or living quarters, or the conduct of any business, trade or occupation, or use as a selling or advertising device, or use for storage or conveyance for chattel, tools, equipment or machinery, and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and streets propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power. The term "trailer" shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, motorcycles, boat utility trailers, trailer coaches and mobile homes.
Trailer, camping, means any portable structure or vehicle designed for highway travel at legal speed limits without a special permit which is intended for temporary living.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-1; Code 1996, § 58-1)
Sec. 32-2. - General requirements.
(a)
Zoning compliance. All mobile homes, as well as mobile home parks within the city limits, shall comply with the city's comprehensive zoning requirements for location. Mobile home subdivisions will meet the minimum lot development standards for the zoning district in which the subdivision is to be located.
(b)
Building and construction codes compliance. Any mobile home placed within the municipal limits of the city for a period exceeding 48 hours must bear an insignia issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
(c)
Health; water and sewer system regulations. Prior to the allowance of permanent occupancy of a mobile home within the city, the mobile home shall be connected with an approved water source, and an approved sewage disposal system in such a manner as to comply with the state department of public health and state water quality control board regulations and the state health code, which codes are, as insofar as applicable, hereby made a part of this chapter.
(d)
Requirements for safety tie-downs. All mobile homes shall be provided with safety tie-downs in compliance with state laws and regulations.
(e)
Frontage. All mobile homes, except in mobile home parks, shall generally face the street in which they are located. However, variations from this subsection may be allowed by the planning commission/city council if special lot considerations warrant a different street orientation.
(f)
Skirting to enclose undercarriage. Within 30 days of installation, all mobile homes within the city must have a permanent skirt which completely encloses the undercarriage. Acceptable materials include masonry or stone and may include metal or other materials compatible with the siding of the particular mobile home unit. The mayor and council may specify the skirting material required for any particular permit application or for any skirting replacement at an existing home location.
(g)
Permits required for accessory structures. Cabanas and other accessory structures shall require a building permit.
(h)
Nonconforming mobile home. If a mobile home is removed from a nonconforming location or if it is destroyed beyond 50 percent of its fair market value, it shall not be replaced by another mobile home.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-2; Code 1996, § 58-2)
Sec. 32-3. - Use of trailer for permanent occupancy.
Camping trailers shall not be used as a permanent place of abode or as a permanent dwelling or for indefinite periods of time; provided, however, that any camping trailer may be occupied and permitted in established mobile home parks for periods not exceeding 30 days.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-3; Code 1996, § 58-3)
Sec. 32-4. - Parking and location of trailers regulated.
(a)
It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any person to park any trailer on any street, alley or highway, or other public place, or on any tract of land owned by any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city except as provided in this chapter.
(b)
One recreational vehicle may be parked or stored in an approved enclosed garage or in the rear yard of any lot on which an occupied dwelling is located, provided that no living quarters shall be maintained or business practiced in such recreational vehicle while it is so parked or stored.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-4; Code 1996, § 58-4)
Sec. 32-5. - Emergency and temporary stopping or parking.
Emergency or temporary stopping or parking of trailers is permitted on any street, alley or highway for not longer than one hour, subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-5; Code 1996, § 58-5)
Sec. 32-6. - Location of mobile homes outside mobile home parks prohibited; exceptions.
As specified in section 32-2, no person shall park or occupy any mobile home on the premises of any occupied dwelling or on any lot, except in compliance with the city's zoning ordinance or as provided by a permit approved by the mayor and council; provided, however, that mobile homes currently occupied as dwellings in the city outside established mobile home parks on the effective date of the ordinance from which this section was derived may continue to be occupied, but no such mobile home may be replaced by another mobile home without making application for a permit for the location of the new or replacement mobile home.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-6; Code 1996, § 58-6)
Sec. 32-7. - Location of accessory buildings or uses on residential lots.
(a)
Accessory buildings may be erected in any required yard except a front yard. In no instance shall such a building be nearer than the required side yard for the principal building for the district in which it is located.
(b)
In the case of double frontage lots, accessory buildings shall observe front yard requirements on both street frontages wherever there are any principal buildings fronting on such streets in the same block or adjacent blocks.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-7; Code 1996, § 58-7)
Sec. 32-8. - Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots.
Accessory buildings or uses on nonresidential lots shall comply with front, side and rear yard requirements established for the zoning district in which such accessory buildings or uses are located.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-8; Code 1996, § 58-8)
Sec. 32-9. - Mobile office.
A mobile home may be converted and used as an office upon permission therefor duly issued by the building official, provided that no portion is used as a residential dwelling. Such permission shall contain such terms and conditions as deemed necessary by the building official.
(Code 1984, § 8-3-9; Code 1996, § 58-9)
