DIVISION 2. - LOADING AND UNLOADING

Sec. 150-111. - Pass required for parking of certain commercial vehicles in truck loading zones and without charge at metered parking spaces.
(a)
As used in this section, the term "commercial vehicles other than commercial trucks," as defined by the state, means vehicles that are used primarily in the transportation of property used in the normal course of business, including but not limited to station wagons and vans used for commercial purposes, but shall not include vehicles used primarily for the transportation of passengers.
(b)
Commercial vehicles other than trucks are authorized to park in areas of the city designated as truck loading zones and without charge at all metered parking spaces so long as a truck loading zone/parking meter pass first obtained from the bureau of traffic and transportation as prescribed in this section.
(c)
The pass, valid for 12 months, shall be issued upon payment of a yearly pass fee of $300.00.
(d)
Every person desiring to obtain a pass required under this section shall make written application to the bureau of traffic and transportation upon forms to be prepared and approved by the bureau. Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the nature of the vehicle, the nature and character of the business conducted by the applicant and the location of the commercial uses of the vehicle in the city. Such application shall be sworn to and subscribed to by the applicant before a notary public. Upon submission of the application and upon payment of a yearly fee of $300.00 as required in subsection (g) below, the pass shall be issued. Prior revocation of a pass under this section shall be grounds for not issuing pass under this section.
(e)
Any passholder while parked in a truck loading zone or in a space where a parking meter is installed shall have placed in the windshield on the driver's side of the vehicle a 12-inch by 12-inch sign with letters not less than one inch high indicating the name of company and city permit number granted for use of the vehicle.
(f)
Any material omission, untrue or misleading information contained in or left out of an original or renewal application for a pass under this section shall be cause for the denial of the pass. If any pass has been granted under these circumstances, such shall constitute cause for the revocation of the pass.
(g)
Every pass issued under this section shall be renewed annually on or before the anniversary of the date of issuance of the pass on forms prescribed by the bureau of traffic and transportation and upon payment of a renewal fee of $300.00.
(h)
A pass issued pursuant to this section may be revoked or suspended upon the failure of any commercial vehicle permitted under this section to comply with this section.
(i)
The bureau of traffic and transportation may revoke or suspend, for a definite or an indefinite period, any pass granted under this section whenever it shall be made to appear that the holder of such pass has violated this section or has made any false statement upon any application for a pass under this section.
(j)
Prior to any suspension or revocation as set forth in subsection (f) of this section, it shall be the duty of the bureau of traffic and transportation to notify in writing any person holding the pass that the bureau of traffic and transportation has grounds for the revocation or suspension of such pass and further notifying such passholder that the passholder may, within a period of five days, appear to present any defense that the passholder may have to the proposed revocation of such pass. The notice shall further advise the holder of such pass that failure to appear shall result in the revocation or suspension of the pass. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the holder of such pass as the address appears from the files of the department of police. Such notice shall set forth the grounds upon which the proposed revocation or suspension is predicated.
No passholder under this section shall be authorized to stand in an area designated as a truck loading zone or freight loading zone for any time beyond that authorized in section 150-114.
(Code 1977, §§ 13-2240—13-2240.4; Ord. No. 2008-48(08-O-1002), § 1, 6-24-08)
Sec. 150-112. - Designation of curb loading zones.
The location of a passenger and freight curb loading zone shall be designated by appropriate signs indicating the zone and stating the hours during which this division is applicable.
(Code 1977, § 13-2241)
Sec. 150-113. - Stopping, standing or parking in passenger curb loading zone.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time, other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers, or passengers and drivers for the provision of off-street attendant parking services as defined and regulated by sections 150-120 through 150-131 in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations applicable to that curb loading zone are effective.
(Code 1977, § 13-2242; Ord. No. 1997-22, § 1, 5-13-97; Ord. No. 2008-63(08-O-2418), § 1, 7-30-08)
Sec. 150-114. - Stopping, standing or parking in freight curb loading zone.
(a)
No person shall stop, stand or park a truck or a vehicle properly licensed as a commercial vehicle for any purpose or length of time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials, in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zone are in effect or stop, stand or park any other vehicle except for such unloading or loading of materials.
(b)
The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place marked as a freight curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when that stopping does not interfere with any motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Code 1977, § 13-2243)
Sec. 150-115. - Designation of bus stops, taxicab stands and public carrier stands.
All bus stops, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier motor vehicles located on public streets shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Code 1977, § 13-2244)
Sec. 150-116. - Identification of bus stops.
(a)
Length. A nonparking zone of 80 feet shall be created at all bus stops for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers.
(b)
Marking. The nonparking zones shall be marked by signs and, in addition, the zones in all congested areas shall have the curbs painted yellow. This proper marking of zones shall be maintained by the companies operating buses in and out of these zones.
(c)
Use. Buses or any vehicles parked in these zones to load or unload passengers shall pull as close to the curb as possible.
(d)
Effect of section. This section does not prohibit buses from loading and unloading at platforms at loading zones where they are provided for that purpose in the street.
(Code 1977, § 13-2245)
Sec. 150-117. - Parking of buses, taxicabs.
The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not park upon any street in any business district at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this section shall not prevent the driver of the vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers and except for making emergency repairs. This section shall not apply to common carriers stopping at regular designated passenger or layover locations.
(Code 1977, § 13-2246)
Sec. 150-118. - Use of bus and taxicab stands restricted.
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, other than a bus in a bus stop or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when the stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed. However, the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when this stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter that zone.
(Code 1977, § 13-2247)
Sec. 150-119. - Discharging passengers on a controlled access highway.
(a)
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to discharge passengers from that vehicle while the vehicle is on any part of a controlled access highway.
(b)
Violation by passenger. It shall be unlawful for any passenger in a motor vehicle to disembark from the vehicle while the vehicle is on any portion of a controlled access highway.
(c)
Applicability of section. This section shall not apply to a person whose automobile for any reason becomes inoperative while on a controlled access highway.
(Code 1977, § 13-2248)
