CHAPTER 20D. - WASHINGTON PARK LANDMARK DISTRICT

Sec. 16-20D.001. - Statement of intent.
The intent of establishing Washington Park Landmark District zoning regulations shall be the following:
(1)
To recognize the importance of Washington Park in the development of one of Atlanta's earliest black suburban communities, and to recognize and preserve the park as a recreation center important to the development of renowned Atlanta citizens and athletes such as Althea Gibson.
(2)
To ensure that future development plans are sensitive to and seek to preserve the historic character of Washington Park, the landscape, the park buildings, and the spatial relationships that create the aesthetic environment enjoyed by past and present residents of the area.
(Code 1977, § 16-20D.001)
Sec. 16-20D.002. - General regulations.
All proposals for renovation or addition to existing buildings or new construction in this Landmark District shall require a certificate of appropriateness issued by the Atlanta Urban Design Commission (AUDC) and shall conform to the following regulations:
(1)
Regulations shall be minimum standards which must be followed and shall be applied by the AUDC (section 16-20.008).
(2)
Upon a determination by the AUDC that an application for renovation or new construction is at broad variance with the intent of these regulations, the AUDC shall institute procedures for public notification and public hearing as are specified similarly for the board of zoning adjustment. Notification shall include any government or nonprofit community institution that has legitimate interest in the historic integrity of this Landmark District.
(3)
Landscaping criteria:
a.
A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for any alteration to existing sidewalks, removal of all trees with a caliper of four (4) inches or greater, or the removal of all shrub massings or hedges over three (3) feet in height.
b.
Major site renovation or major alteration or existing planting shall be subject to design review by AUDC.
c.
All trees with a caliper of four (4) inches or greater as measured four (4) feet above the ground, outside of the building side, which are cleared for any reason shall be replaced with trees having a minimum caliper of one and one-half (1½) inches.
(4)
It shall be mandatory procedure for all parks and recreation personnel charged with maintenance and upkeep of Washington Park to be made aware of the intent and specific content of these regulations. A copy of these regulations shall be maintained on the site with the supervisory staff responsible for maintenance of Washington Park.
City personnel anticipating any activity to change the physical appearance or functional character of the landscape, walks, walls and fences, planting or buildings of Washington Park shall initiate such activity only upon approval of the AUDC as specified in this part.
(Code 1977, § 16-20D.002)
