Chapter 20 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— City court, O.C.G.A. § 15-8-1 et seq.; bond and recognizance, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 20-1—20-18. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - MUNICIPAL COURT

Sec. 20-19. - Court sessions; docket; content.
It shall be the duty of the municipal court judge to hold court as often as may be necessary for the prompt dispatch of such business as may be brought before him, and for the control of persons charged with the violation of laws or ordinances of the city. He shall keep a record book or docket in which he shall enter in a plain and legible manner all court business transacted. The docket shall be full and explicit, and shall be kept in the style and form usual in municipal courts, giving the names, sex and color of all persons tried, and the final disposition of each case.
(Code 1941, § 114; Code 1966, § 19-1)
Sec. 20-20. - Fees and costs; deposit in city treasury.
(a)
In accordance with O.C.G.A. § 36-35-3, it shall be lawful for the city to collect an administrative processing fee on all citations written and process in the city's municipal court. This fee shall be established by resolution of the city council and shall be collected in addition to fines and fees collected and forwarded to the various funds for Georgia Superior Courts Clerks' Cooperative Authority (GSCCA), in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 15-21-179(a).
(b)
The administrative processing fee shall be for, without limitation:
(1)
All computer general histories of the offender.
(2)
Documentation of all citations written.
(3)
Court documents compiled for the judge's review at the time of arraignment or trial.
(4)
Electronic submissions to various law enforcement agencies entitled to information for documentation of defendants' histories.
(5)
Sorting and storing citations for audit or review purposes within retention guidelines.
(Code 1941, § 1242; Code 1966, § 19-2; Ord No. 2006-4, § 1, 2-13-2006)
Sec. 20-21. - Authority to take appearance bonds.
The marshal, any police officer, mayor, any councilmember, or city clerk, may take bond with security or bond without security at discretion, payable to the mayor, for the appearance of any party accused or suspected of being guilty of a violation of any ordinance of the city to stand to and abide his trial before the municipal court, and also of witnesses to testify in any case pending or about to be commenced in the court; provided that all such appearance bonds shall be in one amount for each offense based upon a scale promulgated by the mayor.
(Code 1941, § 1236; Code 1966, § 19-3)
Sec. 20-22. - Failure to make bond; confinement.
If any party or witness shall fail or refuse to give bond and security as required of him, such person so failing or refusing may be confined in the city jail or be kept under guard so as to be present to abide the trial or to testify, as the case may be.
(Code 1941, § 1237; Code 1966, § 19-4)
Sec. 20-23. - Failure to appear; notice; rule to show cause.
All bond taken under section 20-21 shall be special bond, and the power of the security over the principal shall be the same as in special bond. Upon the failure to appear of any principal in any bond or recognizance given by a person charged with violation of any ordinance of the city or by a witness to appear and testify, the municipal judge presiding shall pass a rule requiring the principal and sureties on such bonds to show cause on any day therein named, not to be less than 30 days from the passage of such rule, why they should not be required to pay the amount of such bond.
(Code 1941, § 1238; Code 1966, § 19-5)
Sec. 20-24. - Service of rule.
A copy of the rule in section 20-23 shall be served upon the principal and security by any officer or member of police force, if to be found in the city, at least 30 days before the time set therein for hearing the same.
(Code 1941, § 1239; Code 1966, § 19-6)
Sec. 20-25. - Judgment; execution; levy and sale.
If no sufficient cause is shown, the municipal judge shall proceed to enter judgment against such principal and securities for the amount of the bond, and the city clerk shall issue execution for the amount of such judgment and place the same in the hands of the sheriff or the city marshal, who shall proceed to collect the same by levy and sale as in the case of tax executions.
(Code 1941, § 1240; Code 1966, § 19-7)
Sec. 20-26. - Surrender of principal; release.
(a)
Any surety upon any bail bond of any person charged with the violation of a city ordinance may surrender his principal at any time to the marshal or police officer on duty at the time who shall confine such principal until discharged by order of the court or by giving other and good security.
(b)
The delivering of the principal as aforesaid shall discharge the surety of all further liability upon such bond, provided that such delivery shall be before any judgment or forfeiture upon the bond shall have been entered.
(Code 1941, § 1241; Code 1966, § 19-8)
Sec. 20-27. - Chief judge of the municipal court.
(a)
Judges. The municipal court shall be presided over by a chief judge. The city council shall provide by resolution for the appointment of such assistant judges as shall be deemed necessary to provide for the efficient operation of the court.
(b)
Qualifications. To qualify for appointment as chief judge of the municipal court, a person shall be at least 25 years of age, a member of the State Bar of Georgia in good standing, a practicing attorney with a minimum of ten years' experience, and a resident of Fulton County at the time of and during his or her appointment. To continue to hold office as a chief judge after appointment, a person shall continue to possess all of the foregoing qualifications.
(c)
Oath. Before discharging his or her duties, the chief judge shall take the same oath as judges of the superior courts of the state.
(d)
Term. The chief judge shall be appointed by majority vote of the city council for a term of four years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified; provided, nothing contained herein shall affect the term of the present incumbent(s). The chief judge may be reappointed without limit to the number of terms.
(e)
Removal. The chief judge may be removed from office during a four-year term of office by a two-thirds' vote of the city council for the following reasons:
(1)
Willful misconduct in office;
(2)
Willful and persistent failure to perform duties;
(3)
Habitual intemperance;
(4)
Conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice which brings the judicial office into disrepute; or
(5)
Disability seriously interfering with the performance of duties, which is, or is likely to become, of a permanent character.
(f)
Salary of chief judge. The chief judge of the municipal court shall receive an annual salary and benefits fixed by the city council in the city's classification plan, which shall be paid in the same manner and at the same interval as other municipal employees. Any assistant judge shall be paid on a basis for services actually rendered in an amount and manner determined from time to time by the city council by resolution and shall be memorialized in a duly authorized and executed contract for professional services.
(Ord. No. 2022-228 , § 1, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 20-28. - Court administrator; chief clerk and deputy clerks; other court personnel.
(a)
Court administrator. The office of the court administrator is hereby created. The court administrator shall be appointed by, report to, and be directly supervised by, the chief judge of the municipal court.
(1)
Qualifications. To qualify for appointment as court administrator, a candidate must possess a high school diploma, have five consecutive years of progressively responsible experience in a municipal court system, including three years as a deputy municipal court clerk, chief clerk and/or court administrator, be GCIC ("Georgia Crime Information Center"), CJIS Network Operator ("Criminal Justice Information Services") and CCHS ("Computerized Criminal History System") certified. Prior to application for appointment, the candidate must have satisfactorily completed a minimum of 16 hours of training related to the operation of municipal court[s] as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council. Each year thereafter during his or her tenure, the court administrator shall complete a minimum of eight hours of training related to the operation of municipal court[s] as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council on an annual basis. All reasonable costs and expenses of attending mandatory training shall be paid by the city.
(2)
Duties. The duties of the court administrator shall consist of submitting to the chief judge recommendations for improving the efficiency and operation of the court; being the official custodian of records of the court; assisting the chief judge in the preparation of the budgeting and fiscal reports and documents as may be necessary and proper for the operation and maintenance of the court; and such other duties as assigned by the chief judge.
(b)
Chief clerk and deputy clerks. The office of the clerk of court shall consist of a chief clerk and up to two deputy clerks. The chief clerk shall be appointed by the chief judge of the municipal court, and shall report to, and be directly supervised by, the court administrator.
(1)
Qualifications. The chief clerk and all deputy clerks shall satisfactorily complete a minimum of 16 hours of training related to the operation of municipal court[s] as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council within his or her first year of service as chief clerk or deputy clerk. Each year thereafter during his or her tenure, the chief clerk or deputy clerk shall complete a minimum of eight hours of training related to the operation of municipal court[s] as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council on an annual basis. All reasonable costs and expenses of attending mandatory training shall be paid by the city.
(2)
Duties. The duties of the chief clerk shall consist of being the official custodian of records of the court; collecting and compiling data, including cases filed and disposed of, and information on the expenditures and receipts of the court; maintaining the docket of cases in such form and manner as required by law; supervising the work of all deputy clerks; such other duties as assigned by the chief judge. The chief judge may appoint two deputy clerks, who shall be directly supervised by the chief clerk.
(c)
Other court personnel. The court administrator shall employ, subject to the city's personnel policy, such employees and staff of the court as shall be authorized by the council by resolution.
(d)
Prohibition. Unless provided otherwise in this Code, personnel of the municipal court shall not be employed by, members of, or under the jurisdiction of the city's police department or be actively engaged in the practice of law before the court except in the actual discharge of their official duties.
(Ord. No. 2022-228 , § 2, 2-28-2022)
Sec. 20-29. - Bailiffs.
There shall be at least one bailiff for the municipal court, who may be an employee of the city's police department. The bailiff shall be appointed by and serve at the discretion of the chief judge, shall attend all sittings of the court, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the chief judge.
(Ord. No. 2022-228 , § 3, 2-28-2022)
