ARTICLE VII. - BEAR CREEK WATERSHED

Sec. 65-298. - Intent and purpose.
The intent of this article is to establish regulations and procedures that govern land use and development within the Bear Creek public water supply watershed protection area of the city. The purpose of this article is to establish measures to protect the quality of the Bear Creek water supply watershed in the city; to minimize the transport of pollutants and sediment to the water supply; and to maintain the yield of the Bear Creek water supply watershed.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 2, 4-13-2004)
Sec. 65-299. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Buffer means a natural or enhanced vegetated area with no or limited minor land disturbances, such as trails and picnic areas, located adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Corridor means all land within the buffer areas established adjacent to reservoirs or perennial streams within a water supply watershed.
Impervious surface means a manmade structure or surface that prevents the infiltration of stormwater into the ground below the structure or surface. Examples of impervious surfaces are buildings, roads, driveways, parking lots, decks, swimming pools, or patios.
Perennial stream means a stream or a river that flows throughout the year, except during droughts.
Reservoir boundary means the edge of a water supply reservoir defined by its normal pool level.
Septic tank means a county health department approved watertight structure installed underground to receive sewage from a building, effecting separation and organic decomposition of sewage solids, and discharging effluent to an absorption field or another element of an on-site sewage management system.
Small water supply watershed means a watershed that contains less than 100 square miles of land within the drainage basin upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake.
Utility means a public or private water or sewer piping system, water or sewer pumping station, electric power lines, fuel pipelines, telephone lines, roads, driveways, bridges, river/lake access facilities, stormwater systems and railroads or other utilities identified by a local government.
Water supply reservoir means a governmentally owned impoundment of water for the primary purpose of providing water to one or more governmentally owned public drinking water systems.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 3, 4-13-2004)
Sec. 65-300. - Establishment of water supply watershed district.
The Bear Creek public water supply watershed district is hereby designated and shall comprise the land in the city that drains to the public water supply intake of the South Fulton Municipal Regional Water and Sewer Authority (Exhibit A, which is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this article by reference). The boundaries of this overlay are defined by the ridgelines of the watershed and upstream of the Bear Creek Dam of the South Fulton Regional Water and Sewer Authority.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 4, 4-13-2004)
Sec. 65-301. - Protection criteria.
(a)
The corridors of all perennial streams within a seven-mile radius upstream of governmentally owned public drinking water supply intakes and reservoirs and within the city shall be protected by the following criteria:
(1)
Buffers shall be maintained for a distance of 100 feet on both sides of the stream as measured horizontally from a point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the stream banks within the watershed.
(2)
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 150-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
(3)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited within the 150-foot setback area described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
(b)
The corridors of all perennial streams outside a seven-mile radius upstream of a governmentally owned public drinking water supply intake and within the city must be protected by the following criteria:
(1)
A buffer shall be maintained for a distance of 50 feet on both sides of the stream as measured horizontally from a point where vegetation has been wrested by normal stream flow or wave action, along the stream banks within the watershed.
(2)
No impervious surface shall be constructed within a 75-foot setback area on both sides of the stream as measured from the stream banks.
(3)
Septic tanks and septic tank drainfields are prohibited in the 75-foot setback area as described in subsection (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
The impervious surface area, including all public and private structures, utilities, or facilities, of the entire water supply watershed shall be limited to 25 percent, or existing use, whichever is greater, unless other best management practices, as approved by the state department of natural resources have been implemented.
(d)
Within these watersheds, new facilities which handle hazardous materials of the types listed in section 312 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (excluding underground storage tanks) and in amounts determined by the state department of natural resources of 10,000 pounds or more on any one day shall perform their operations on impervious surfaces and in conformance with any applicable local, state and federal spill prevention requirements and fire code requirements.
(e)
New hazardous waste treatment or disposal facilities are prohibited.
(f)
New sanitary landfills are allowed only if they have synthetic liners and leachate collection systems.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 5, 4-13-2004)
Sec. 65-302. - Exemptions.
The following uses shall be exempted:
(1)
Land uses existing prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived or projects that have applied for land disturbance permits prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived (provided the application is ultimately approved).
(2)
Mining activities permitted by the department of natural resources under the Surface Mining Act.
(3)
Utilities that cannot be located outside of the buffer and setback areas of the corridor shall meet the following criteria:
a.
The utilities shall be located as far from the stream bank as possible.
b.
The installation and maintenance of the utilities shall be such to protect the integrity of the buffer setback areas.
c.
The utilities shall not impair the in-stream water quality.
(4)
Forestry and agricultural activities in the buffer setback areas of the corridor shall adhere to the following conditions:
a.
The activity shall be consistent with the best management practices established by the state forestry commission or the state department of agriculture.
b.
The activity shall not impair the quality of the drinking water stream.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 6, 4-13-2004)
Sec. 65-303. - Violations and penalties.
(a)
Any person in violation of any provision of this article shall be served written notice by the city stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. Such person shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, take all necessary action to correct the violation and shall permanently cease such violation.
(b)
When a building or other structure has been constructed in violation of this article, the violator may be required to remove the structure and be fined $1,000.00 per violation for each day that the violation exists.
(c)
When removal of vegetative cover, excavation, or fill has taken place in violation of this article, the violator may be required to restore the affected land to its original contours and to restore vegetation and be fined $250.00 per violation for each day that the violation exists.
(d)
The city may suspend or revoke a permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit or has exceeded the scope of the work set forth in the permit.
(Ord. No. 2004-6, § 7, 4-13-2004)
Secs. 65-304—65-324. - Reserved.
