ARTICLE II. - TECHNICAL CODES
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Secs. 5-26—5-35. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BUILDING CODE

Sec. 5-36. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every building and structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures in the city, there is hereby adopted as the building code for the city the International Building Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Building Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The building code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Code 1985, §§ 7-4-1, 7-4-2; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-37. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the building code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-38. - Amendments.
The building code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-3; Ord. No. 88-016, § 1, 6-20-88)
Secs. 5-39—5-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - ELECTRICAL CODE

Sec. 5-51. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of electrical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenants thereto in the city, there is hereby adopted as the electrical code for the city the National Electrical Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the National Fire Protection Association, a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The electrical code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-21; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
The schedule of permit fees for the electrical code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-53. - Amendments.
The electrical code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-22; Ord. No. 88-017, § 1, 6-20-88)
Secs. 5-54—5-65. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - GAS CODE

Sec. 5-66. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of consumer's gas piping, gas appliances and related accessories as installed, replaced, maintained or repaired within the city or connected to the city gas system, there is hereby adopted as the gas code for the city the International Fuel Gas Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The gas code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-33; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-67. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the gas code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-40)
Sec. 5-68. - Amendments.
The gas code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Secs. 5-69—5-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 5. - PLUMBING CODE[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Water, § 23-56 et seq.

Sec. 5-86. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for every plumbing installation, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures and appurtenances within the city or connected to the city water and wastewater system, there is hereby adopted as the plumbing code for the city the International Plumbing Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., as amended by the Georgia Department of Community Affairs, a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The plumbing code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-51; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-87. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the plumbing code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-88. - Amendments.
The plumbing code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-52; Ord. No. 88-019, § 1, 6-20-88)
Secs. 5-89—5-100. - Reserved.
DIVISION 6. - RESERVED[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of Nov. 25, 2019 , repealed former Div. 6, §§ 5-101—5-103, in its entirety which pertained to the housing code and derived from the Code of 1985, § 7-4-61.

Secs. 5-101—5-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 7. - ENERGY CODE

Sec. 5-111. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the design of building envelopes for adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage, and the design and selection of mechanical, electrical, water heating and illumination systems and equipment which will enable the effective use of energy in new building construction in the city, there is hereby adopted as the energy code for the city the International Energy Conservation Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The energy code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Code 1985, § 7-4-71; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-112. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the energy code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-113. - Amendments.
The energy code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Secs. 5-114—5-120. - Reserved.
DIVISION 8. - MECHANICAL CODE

Sec. 5-121. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the installation of mechanical systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, incinerators and other energy-related systems in the city, there is hereby adopted as the mechanical code for the city the International Mechanical Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The mechanical code is hereby adopted by incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-122. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the mechanical code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-123. - Amendments.
The mechanical code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Secs. 5-124—5-130. - Reserved.
DIVISION 9. - DWELLING CODE

Sec. 5-131. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations to further standardize nationally recognized model codes to provide minimum requirements to safeguard life, health and public welfare and the protection of property by regulating and controlling the design, construction, prefabrication, equipment or appliance installation, quality of materials, use and occupancy location and repair of detached one- and two-family dwellings, excluding their plumbing provision, in the city, there is hereby adopted as the dwelling code for the city the International Residential Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The dwelling code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-132. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the dwelling code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-133. - Amendments.
The dwelling code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Secs. 5-134—5-140. - Reserved.
DIVISION 10. - RESERVED[4]

Footnotes:
--- (4) ---
Editor's note— Ord. of Nov. 25, 2019 , repealed former Div. 10, §§ 5-141—5-143, in its entirety which pertained to the former grading code and derived from this 1992 codification.

Secs. 5-141—5-150. - Reserved.
DIVISION 11. - EXISTING BUILDINGS CODE

Sec. 5-151. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations to preserve existing buildings that might otherwise be destroyed, and at the same time satisfy basic structural and fire safety needs of the public while achieving a minimum level of occupancy safety in the city, there is hereby adopted as the existing buildings code for the city the International Existing Building Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The existing buildings code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
( Ord. of 11-25-19
Sec. 5-152. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the existing buildings code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-153. - Amendments.
The existing buildings code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Secs. 5-154—5-160. - Reserved.
DIVISION 12. - SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE

Sec. 5-161. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations to protect the public health, safety and welfare by prescribing minimum standards for the design, construction or installation, repair or alterations of swimming pools, spas and equipment thereto in the city, there is hereby adopted as the swimming pool and spa code for the city the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The swimming pool and spa code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-162. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the swimming pool and spa code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-163. - Amendments.
The swimming pool and spa code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Secs. 5-164—5-170. - Reserved.
DIVISION 13. - FIRE PREVENTION CODE[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 8.

Sec. 5-171. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the construction, repair, equipment, use and occupancy and maintenance of every building or structure and appurtenances thereto, and to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof through safety of life and property from fire, explosion and other hazard incident to the use and occupancy of buildings, structures or premises in the city, there is hereby adopted as the fire prevention code for the city the International Fire Prevention Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The fire prevention code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as fully as if set out herein.
(Ord. No. 97-020, 12-22-97; Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-172. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the fire prevention code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-173. - Amendments.
The fire prevention code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
Sec. 5-174. - Reserved.
DIVISION 14. - PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE[6]

Footnotes:
--- (6) ---
Cross reference— Property maintenance provisions to eliminate nuisances, § 13-51 et seq.

Sec. 5-175. - Adopted; scope.
For the purpose of rules and regulations to protect the health, safety and welfare by providing standards for maintenance of all existing residential and nonresidential structures and all premises, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the elements and life safety in the city, there is adopted as the property maintenance code of the city the International Property Maintenance Code and all Georgia amendments, latest edition, as amended, which is published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of the planning department. The property maintenance code is hereby adopted and incorporated and made a part of this Code, except where amended specifically herein, as full as if set out herein.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-176. - Permit fees.
The schedule of permit fees for the property maintenance code shall be set from time to time by the city commission and a schedule of such costs is on file in the planning department, and shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
Sec. 5-177. - Amendments.
The property maintenance code adopted in this article shall be amended from time to time by the city commission and such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this Code.
( Ord. of 11-25-19 )
