Chapter 20 - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5; motor vehicles and traffic, ch. 11; planning and development, ch. 16; subdivisions, ch. 21; zoning, ch. 24.
State Law reference— Authority to construct and maintain streets and roads, Ga. Const. art. 9, sec. 2, para. 3; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; power of city to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; executions for collection of assessments for paving streets and laying sewers, O.C.G.A. § 48-5-358.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 20-1. - Obstructions, offensive deposits or discharges prohibited; enforcement.
(a)
No person shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed the streets, alleys, sidewalks, culverts or drainage ways except in cases of necessity of which the city manager shall be the judge, nor shall any person throw or discharge anything upon them so as to render such streets or sidewalks offensive, or hazardous.
(b)
In case any person is erecting or has erected any obstruction prohibited by subsection (a) of this section, he shall be notified by the city to remove the obstruction. Upon failure to comply with the request of the city within 24 hours after the notice, the city shall have the obstruction removed, and the city shall issue an execution against the person so refusing or failing to remove the obstruction for the expense incurred in having the obstruction removed if the expense is not promptly paid. The remedy provided by this subsection shall not be exclusive.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-11)
Sec. 20-2. - Displays of merchandise prohibited; costs.
(a)
No person shall obstruct any street, sidewalk, alley, municipal parking lot or other public place by exposing, exhibiting or storing of any goods, commodities, merchandise or other articles on the streets, sidewalks, alleys, municipal parking lots or any other public place without the approval of the city. Any such approval may be granted by the city manager or designee of the city manager on a nonpermanent basis for special promotions for no more than 30 days per calendar year.
(b)
Any obstruction prohibited by subsection (a) of this section shall be removed by the city, and if the removal is attended with any expense, the expense shall be defrayed by the person so obstructing the same. Any person placing obstructions or hindering or preventing the city in the execution of any duty under this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-12; Ord. No. 90-006, § 1, 2-26-90)
Cross reference— Licenses and business regulations, ch. 10.
Sec. 20-3. - Damaging street markers.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hack, cut, saw, mark, disfigure, or interfere in any manner with any street markers or notices erected within the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-13)
Sec. 20-4. - Utility work on public streets or rights-of-way.
(a)
All public utilities or agents thereof operating in the city shall obtain a permit from the city prior to the commencement of any new encroachments or ground openings or ground cuts which will obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along any public street or thoroughfare. For the purpose of this section a permit shall not be required for normal maintenance. This permit shall be obtained notwithstanding any franchise agreement the public utility may have with the city.
(b)
In order to obtain a permit from the city, the public utility shall inform the city of the time and place for the work project and shall outline the effect that such work product shall have on the flow of traffic along the affected street or thoroughfare.
(c)
There shall be no fee charge for the issuance of the permit.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-14)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 23.
Secs. 20-5—20-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 20-31. - Penalty for violation.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished as provided in section 1-12 and, in addition thereto, shall have his license to do business in the city revoked, and shall not make application for a new license until six months after the date of the revocation thereof.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-25)
Sec. 20-32. - Base and base materials standards adopted.
Every street, road in the city, before being paved, shall conform to the minimum specifications as to base and base materials in the following provisions of the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications Volume I, Construction of Roads and Bridges, and Volume II, Materials for Roads and Bridges, as approved by the State Highway Board, as amended.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-21)
Sec. 20-33. - Paving standards adopted.
The paving of every street, road, or way in the city shall conform to the minimum specifications as to paving adopted by reference in this section as contained in the Georgia Department of Transportation Standard Specifications, Volume I, Construction of Roads and Bridges, and Volume II, Materials for Roads and Bridges, as amended.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-22)
Sec. 20-34. - Submission and approval of plans prior to paving.
Prior to commencing work on any street or road in the city, the contractor shall submit to the city manager, or the city manager's authorized representative, the plans and specifications
for the paving for approval by the city manager. Approval shall be given if the contractor complies with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-23)
Sec. 20-35. - Inspection of base prior to paving; notice to city manager; pavement not to be laid until base approved.
Before any street, road or way is paved, and after the base has been prepared, the contractor shall notify the city manager, or the city manager's authorized representative, that the base has been prepared and the city manager, or the city manager's authorized representative, shall make an inspection thereof to determine whether the base has been prepared to meet the minimum specifications established in this division. If, in the opinion of the city manager, the base does not meet the minimum specifications, the contractor shall not pave the street, road, or way until, in the opinion of the city manager, the base meets the minimum specifications.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-24)
Secs. 20-36—20-55. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 20-56. - Approval of city required.
No person shall repair, improve or in any way affect any existing city-owned sidewalks in the city without first securing approval from the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-31)
Secs. 20-57—20-75. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 20-76. - Approval of city required.
No person shall repair, improve or any way affect any existing city drainage system without first securing approval from the city. No building permit shall be issued unless the applicant can demonstrate that all improvements will comply with the drainage specifications in the community design ordinance for subdivisions, chapter 21, and for soil erosion, chapter 18.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-41)
Sec. 20-77. - Supervision by city required.
All repair work or improvements of any existing city drainage system shall be done under the supervision of the city.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-42)
Sec. 20-78. - Responsibility of property owner.
The city shall not maintain drainage culverts, ditches, pipes or catch basins on private property. The property owner shall be responsible for drainage systems on private property.
(Code 1985, § 5-1-43)
Secs. 20-79—20-100. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - HOUSE NUMBERING[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 5.

Sec. 20-101. - Penalties.
If the owner or occupant or person in charge of any house or building refuses to comply with the terms of this article by failing to affix the number assigned within 60 days after notification, or by failing within such 60-day period to remove any old numbers affixed to such house, or house entrance, or elsewhere, which may be confused with the number assigned thereto, he shall be punished as provided for in section 1-12.
(Code 1985, § 4-5-4)
Sec. 20-102. - Designation of street numbers.
Street numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all public and private streets within the corporate limits of the City of Toccoa shall be in conformity with numbers issued by Stephens County and the Stephens County Emergency Communications Department.
(Code 1985, § 4-5-1; Ord. No. 6-2005, § I.1, 5-9-05)
Sec. 20-103. - Posting of designated street address.
(a)
The owner or occupant or person in charge of any house or building in which a number has been assigned will be notified in writing by Stephens County of the number assigned.
(b)
Within 60 days after the receipt of such written notification from the city, the owner or occupant or person in charge of a house or building to which a number has been assigned shall affix the number in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place.
(c)
It shall be the duty of such owner or occupant or person in charge thereof upon affixing a number to remove any number which might be mistaken for, or confused with, the number assigned to such structure by Stephens County.
(d)
Mobile home parks, apartments, houses converted to apartments or houses containing apartments, and duplexes, triplexes and quadraplexes. Each principal building shall display the number assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance may display a separate number.
(e)
Numerals indicating the official numbers for which principal building or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner and to be legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located. Each number shall be at least three inches high, shall be reflective, and shall be placed on a contrasting background.
(Code 1985, § 4-5-2; Ord. No. 6-2005, §§ I.2—I.5, 5-9-05)
Sec. 20-104. - New structures.
No building permit shall be issued for any principal building until the owner or developer has procured from Stephens County the official number of the premises. Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal building erected or repaired after the effective date of the ordinance from which this article derives shall be withheld until permanent and proper numbers have been displayed in accordance with the requirements of section 20-103.
(Code 1985, § 4-5-3; Ord. No. 6-2005, § I.6, 5-9-05)
Secs. 20-105—20-200. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - PARKING LOTS

Sec. 20-201. - Description.
The parking lots described herein and as described in Exhibit A attached hereto (at the end of this section) are parking lots owned and maintained by the city for the use and convenience of patrons and customers of businesses and other entities or agencies located adjacent or near said parking lots.
City-Owned Public Areas and Parking Lots
Toccoa City Hall
Toccoa Fire Station
Railroad Depot/Amtrak Station
Whitman Street Community Center
Henderson Falls Park
Toccoa Animal Shelter
Lake Yonah Pumping Station (outside city)
Davidson Creek Pumping Station (outside city)
Toccoa Reservoir and Fishing Area
Toccoa Water Treatment Facility
Braswell Street Public Works Facility
Recycling Center
Toccoa Natural Gas Facility and Peak Shaving Plant
Camp Toccoa Water Treatment Facility (out)
Camp Toccoa Pumping Station (out)
Toccoa Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant
WABCO Oxidation Pond (out)
Eastanollee Creek Wastewater Treatment Facility
Broad Street Off-Street Parking Lot
Doyle Street Park
Emory Johnson Park
Alewine Park
Henderson Falls Park
Toccoa Municipal Golf Course
Downtown Mall Off-Street Parking Lots (3)
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Sec. 20-202. - Intent.
It is the intent of the city that said parking lots shall be maintained and operated for the use and convenience of the customers and patrons and are parking lots for the express purpose of maintaining and encouraging economic growth and development in the city.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Sec. 20-203. - Hours of operation.
All parking lots shall be opened as of 5:00 a.m. All parking lots shall be closed within 30 minutes of the close of businesses and facilities adjacent to said parking lots. Under all circumstances, all parking lots enumerated in this article shall be closed to public traffic and parking no later than 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Sec. 20-204. - Use by owners of adjacent property and employees of adjacent businesses.
Nothing contained within this article prohibits the owner of property located adjacent to said parking lots or employees of businesses located adjacent to said parking lots to use said parking lots at any time.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Sec. 20-205. - Extending hours of operation.
Recognizing that, from time to time, there may be some necessity to extend the operation of the time for said parking lots to be open, the city commission does hereby delegate to the city manager, the right to extend the hours of operation of said parking lots. In all such cases, the city manager's extension of operating hours shall only be temporary and must be extended by written confirmation from the city manager. In no event shall the parking lot hours described herein be extended more than three times per year per parking lot without the express authorization of the city commission.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Sec. 20-206. - Violation.
This article shall become effective immediately. Any violation of this article shall be treated as a violation of the Code of Ordinances of the city and shall be punished as provided herein and as is authorized pursuant to section 1-12 of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
For the first violation there shall be imposed a fine of no less than $50.00. For the second violation there shall be imposed a fine of no less than $100.00. For the third violation, there shall be imposed a fine of no less than $150.00. Nothing contained herein will prevent the judge of the municipal court from imposing more severe fines and penalties as authorized by law and by the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 96-014, 7-22-96)
Secs. 20-207—20-220. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. - HISTORIC COMMERCIAL DISTRICT

Sec. 20-221. - Prohibited activities as defined.
(a)
No person shall operate or cause to be operated a skateboard, roller skates, other skates, bicycle or any wheeled vehicle which is intended and designed to be propelled by a foot on the vehicle at the time of the wheeled vehicle's propulsion on the sidewalks, ramps, parking lots and medians within the downtown historic district. The downtown historic district is defined in Exhibit "A" attached hereto. This section is not intended to prohibit the parking of wheeled vehicles described herein within or on the sidewalk, ramps, parking lots and medians.
(b)
Any violation of this section shall be treated as a violation of the Code of Ordinances and shall be punished as authorized in section 1-12 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Toccoa.
Exhibit A
Historic Commercial District
(Ord. No. 7-2003, § I, 8-25-03; Ord. of 8-10-09, § I)
