Chapter 58 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 10; drunkenness, drinking in open public places, § 10-3; general liquor regulations, ch. 10-121; pouring outlet regulations, § 10-154; animals, ch. 18; cruelty to animals, § 18-101 et seq.; civil emergencies, ch. 30; false fire alarms, § 42-1.

Sec. 58-1. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-01-20, § 1, adopted April 2, 2001, repealed § 58-1 in its entirety. Formerly said section pertained to interference with officers. See the Code Comparative Table.
Sec. 58-2. - Attempting or assisting escape.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to escape or to assist in any way the escape of any person in the custody of any officer, or from any jail when confined therein, or from the custody of any guard or superintendent of the work detail, or from any place of confinement.
(Code 1977, § 17-3)
Sec. 58-3. - Missiles and firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any firearms or to throw or shoot, either by hand or with any bow, sling, flip or other instrument, any arrow, shot, bullet, stone or other missile at any location within the city except:
(1)
By any law enforcement officer or animal control officer when acting within the scope of his duties; or
(2)
By any patron at a licensed private shooting range; or
(3)
By any participant in an authorized recreational event or practice held at a city park; or
(4)
By any person on property for which a current hunting permit has been issued by the city as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1977, § 17-5; Ord. No. O-98-79, § 1, 11-16-98)
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.
Sec. 58-4. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-2013-8, § 1, adopted Feb. 4, 2013, repealed § 58-4, which pertained to hunting and derived from Ord. No. O-98-79, § 2, adopted Nov. 16, 1998.
Sec. 58-5. - Camping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp anywhere in the city except at such places as may be designated by the mayor and council for that purpose.
(Code 1977, § 17-9)
Cross reference— Camping in parks, § 62-42.
Sec. 58-6. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to do or commit any of the following:
(1)
Be and appear in an intoxicated condition in any public place or within the curtilage of any private residence not his own other than by invitation of the owner or lawful occupant, which condition is made manifest by boisterousness, by indecent condition or act, or by vulgar, profane, loud, or unbecoming language;
(2)
Without provocation, use to or of another person in such other person's presence, opprobrious or abusive words which by their very utterance tend to incite to an immediate breach of the peace, that is to say, words which as a matter of common knowledge and under ordinary circumstances will, when used to or of another person in such other person's presence, naturally tend to provoke violent resentment, that is, words commonly called "fighting words";
(3)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby such person is placed in reasonable fear of the safety of such person's life, limb, or health;
(4)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another person whereby the property of such person is placed in danger of being damaged or destroyed;
(5)
Create loud noises which disrupt, disturb or otherwise interfere with the peace and tranquility of the public;
(6)
Disrupt by actions which tend to cause an immediate breach of the peace the undisturbed activities of any house of worship, hospital, or home for the elderly;
(7)
Be in possession of less than one ounce of marijuana without a medical prescription for it; or
(8)
Remain, loiter or prowl in a place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(Code 1977, § 17-11; Ord. No. O-2020-12 , § 1, 3-16-20)
Cross reference— Prohibited conduct in parks, § 62-38.
State Law reference— Offenses against public order, O.C.G.A. § 16-11-30 et seq.
Sec. 58-7. - Possession of marijuana unlawful; penalty.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess one ounce or less of marijuana within the corporate limits of the city.
(b)
A person guilty of violating this section shall be punished in accordance with the city charter.
(c)
The recorder shall exercise such jurisdiction and authority as provided by O.C.G.A. § 36-32-6.
(Code 1977, § 17-14)
State Law reference— Conditional discharge for possession of controlled substances as first offense, O.C.G.A. § 16-13-2.
Sec. 58-8. - Entry on city reservoir property.
It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to enter upon the city water reservoir or the surrounding property of the city for any purpose. City employees, officers and agents may enter upon the property to perform the duties of their employment. Other government officials may enter upon the property in carrying out their official duties.
(Code 1977, § 17-15)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 86.
Sec. 58-9. - Deposits on city reservoir property.
It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to put, place or locate, or cause to be put, placed or located, any material of whatever kind or nature on the water reservoir property, either directly or indirectly, without the express permission of the city.
(Code 1977, § 17-16)
Sec. 58-10. - Pollution prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to discharge, or cause to be discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the water impounded in the city reservoir any waste matter, polluted materials or substances likely to cause pollution to such water, or any material likely to cause a degradation of the quality of the water in the reservoir.
(Code 1977, § 17-17)
Sec. 58-11. - Safety of public areas; loitering.
(a)
No person shall remain or loiter upon any premises to which the public has access, including but not limited to such places as shopping center parking lots, where the person's presence upon such premises is unrelated to the normal activity, use or business for which such premises are made available to the public.
(b)
No person shall consume alcoholic beverages, beer or wine upon any premises to which the public has access, including but not limited to such places as shopping center parking lots, where the person's presence upon such premises is unrelated to the normal activity, use or business for which such premises are made available to the public.
(c)
No person shall deposit any garbage, refuse, rubbish, or litter which would constitute a danger to a pedestrian or a motor vehicle upon any premises to which the public has access, including but not limited to such places as shopping center parking lots, where the person's presence upon such premises is unrelated to the normal activity, use or business for which such premises are made available to the public.
(d)
No person shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby any other person is placed in fear for the safety of his life, limb or health, or whereby the property of another is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
(e)
No person shall endanger the lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry threats or abusive conduct.
(f)
No person shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of another.
(g)
No person shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl.
(h)
No person shall jostle, roughly crowd or push any person in any public place.
(i)
No person shall use fighting words or loud and boisterous language directed towards another so as to create a breach of the peace potentially dangerous to the safety of person or property.
(j)
No person shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way or place so as to halt or impede the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic after having been directed to clear such public way or place when ordered by the city police.
(k)
For the purpose of this section, private parking facilities and associated walkways shall be considered a public way or place if such facilities are intended for use by the general public.
(Code 1977, § 17-18)
Cross reference— Alcoholic beverages, ch. 10; entertainment at pouring outlets, § 10-155; solid waste, ch. 70.
Sec. 58-12. - Criminal trespass by motor vehicle.
(a)
The city, pursuant to the authority of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252(c), hereby adopts by reference the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 40-6-252(a), defining the offense of parking, standing or driving a vehicle in a private parking area after a request not to do so.
(b)
Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to a monetary fine:
(1)
Not to exceed $50.00 for the first such violation;
(2)
Not to exceed $100.00 for the second such violation; and
(3)
Not to exceed $150.00 for the third or subsequent such violation.
(Code 1977, § 17-19)
Cross reference— Traffic and vehicles, ch. 82.
Sec. 58-13. - Limitations on discharge of phosphates.
(a)
Declaration of policy. O.C.G.A. § 12-5-27.1 provides that whenever a local governmental entity is required by the environmental protection division to reduce phosphorus in its wastewater being discharged into the waters of the state, such local governmental entity shall pass an ordinance and/or resolution mandating the retail sale of low-phosphorus household laundry detergent as part of its phosphorus-reduction process. It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the authority, the city and the county to encourage the use of clean, phosphate-free household laundry detergents and to prohibit the sale of household laundry detergents which contain more than one-half percent phosphorus by weight. The authority, the city and the county find that such use and sale will be a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of phosphorus in wastewater discharge so as to protect the state's rivers and lakes downstream and promote the health, safety and welfare and to prevent injury to human health, plant and animal life and property. It is vital to the health, well-being and welfare of present and future inhabitants of the city and the county that these sources be protected against contamination and pollution.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Authority means the Douglasville-Douglas County water and Sewer Authority.
City means the City of Douglasville, Georgia.
County means Douglas County, Georgia.
Household laundry detergent means a laundering cleaning compound in liquid, bar, spray, tablet, flake, powder or other form used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes. The term household laundry detergent shall not mean:
(1)
A dishwashing compound, household cleaner, metal cleaner, degreasing compound, commercial cleaner, industrial cleaner or other substance that is intended to be used for nonlaundry cleaning purposes;
(2)
A detergent used in dairy, beverage or food-processing cleaning equipment;
(3)
A phosphorus-acid product, including a sanitizer, brightener, acid cleaner or metal conditioner;
(4)
A detergent used in hospitals, veterinary hospitals or clinics or health-care facilities or in agricultural production;
(5)
A detergent used by industry for metal cleaning or conditioning;
(6)
A detergent manufactured, stored or distributed for use or sale outside of the state;
(7)
A detergent used in any laboratory, including a biological laboratory, research facility, chemical laboratory and engineering laboratory; or
(8)
A detergent used in a commercial laundry that provides laundry service for hospitals, health-care facilities or veterinary hospitals.
Person means any person, firm, partnership or corporation.
Phosphorus means elemental phosphorus.
(c)
Restricted use. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at the retail level a household laundry detergent which contains greater than one-half percent phosphorus by weight and is intended to be used for domestic clothes-cleaning purposes.
(d)
Penalties for violation. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each such violation.
(e)
Compliance. In addition to the penalty provided in subsection (d) of this section, the authority, the city and the county may maintain an action or proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain any violation of this section.
(f)
Right to damages. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abridge, limit or otherwise impair the right of any person to damages or other relief on account of injuries to persons or property arising out of a violation of this section and to maintain any action or other appropriate proceeding therefor.
(g)
Severability. Should any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this section be declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of this section in its entirety or any part hereof other than that so declared to be invalid.
(Code 1977, § 17-20)
Cross reference— Utilities, ch. 86; sewers, § 86-71 et seq.
Sec. 58-14. - Drug related objects.
Except as authorized by state law, it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to possess with intent to distribute, sell, advertise for sale, lend, rent, lease, give, exchange, or otherwise distribute to any person any drug related object, as contemplated or described in O.C.G.A. § 16-13-32.
(Ord. No. O-2019-38 , § 1, 8-5-19)
