ARTICLE VI. - FIRE, BANKRUPT, GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS, ETC., SALES[5]

Footnotes:
--- (5) ---
Editor's note— Ord. No. O-97-28, § 2, adopted March 17, 1997, renumbered Art. V as Art. VI. See the Code Comparative Table for a detailed analysis of inclusion of said ordinance O-97-28.
Cross reference— Fire prevention and protection, ch. 42.

Sec. 26-216. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Fire and other altered goods sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water or other means.
Going-out-of-business sale means a sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand the business will cease and be discontinued, including but not limited to the following sales: adjuster's, adjustment, alteration, assignee's bankrupt, benefit of administrator's, benefit of creditor's, benefit of trustee's, building coming down, closing, creditor's committee, creditor's end, executor's final days, forced out, forced out of business, insolvent's last days, lease expires, liquidation, loss of lease, mortgage sale, receiver's, trustee's quitting business, and other like sales.
Goods means and includes any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of being the object of a sale regulated under this article.
Removal of business sale means a sale held out in such manner as to reasonably cause the public to believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then move to and resume business at a new location in the city or will then continue business from other existing locations in the city.
(Code 1977, § 16-66)
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 26-217. - Penalties for violation of article.
Violations of this article are declared to be unlawful and violations shall be subject to punishment as provided by section 1-3 of the Code of the City of Douglasville.
(Code 1977, § 16-81)
Sec. 26-218. - General provisions.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person advertising by newspaper, radio, posters or otherwise to represent that he is operating, offering or maintaining fire sales, wreck sales, bankrupt sales, or going-out-of-business sales and similar businesses whereby the public is led to believe that they are being offered merchandise at reduced rates on account of fires, wrecks, bankruptcies, closing-out or discontinuance of business when, in fact, such sales are not bona fide.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person conducting any sale, except judicial sales, whether the same is by auction or otherwise, of any goods, wares or merchandise which are claimed to be or have been in or damaged by fire, or which are claimed to be or have been sold or purchased on account of any fire, or which are or have been, or which are claimed to be the property of any bankrupt person who has failed in business or has made a general assignment or is or has made a general assignment, or is or has been in voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, or which are being sold or offered for sale in any other way than through the usual channels of trade, to sell or offer for sale in such sale any goods, wares, or merchandise not so affected or damaged or to add to or to permit to be added to, or to bring into or permit to be brought into any store, warehouse or any building in the city, for the purpose of adding to such goods, wares, or merchandise so circumstanced or affected and which are on hand in any such store, warehouse or other building for the purpose of being sold at such sale.
(Code 1977, § 16-65)
Sec. 26-219. - License—Required.
All persons shall secure a license from the city before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale advertised or held out by any means to be one of the following kinds:
(1)
Going-out-of-business sale;
(2)
Removal of business sale; or
(3)
Fire and other altered stock sale.
(Code 1977, § 16-67)
Sec. 26-220. - Same—Application.
A person desiring to conduct a sale regulated by this article shall make a written application to the city, setting forth and containing the following information:
(1)
The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the object of the sale;
(2)
The true name and address of the person from whom he purchased the goods to be sold, the price therefor, and, if not purchased, the manner of such acquisition;
(3)
A description of the place where such sale is to be held;
(4)
The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the effective date of termination of such occupancy;
(5)
The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be conducted;
(6)
A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale, including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby and the manner in which the sale will be conducted;
(7)
The means to be employed in advertising such sale together with the proposed content by any advertisement; and
(8)
A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such sale as disclosed by the applicant's records. Such inventory shall be attached to and become part of the required application.
a.
All goods included in such inventory shall have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without cancellation privileges and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
b.
Such inventory shall not include goods ordered in contemplation of conducting a sale regulated under this article. Any unusual purchase or additions to the stock of goods of the business hereby affected within ten days before the filing of an application under this section shall be deemed to be of such character.
(Code 1977, § 16-68)
Sec. 26-221. - Same—Fee.
Any applicant for a license under this article shall submit to the city a license fee of $100.00 with his application.
(Code 1977, § 16-69)
Sec. 26-222. - Same—Established business prerequisite.
Any person who has not been the owner of the business advertised or described in the application for a license under this article for a period of at least 12 months prior to the date of the proposed sale shall not be granted a license, except upon the approval of the mayor and council of the city; provided, that upon the death of a person doing business in this city, his heirs, devisees or legatees shall have the right to apply at any time for a license under this article.
(Code 1977, § 16-70)
Sec. 26-223. - Same—Restricted to one place of business.
Where a person applying for a license under this article operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only to the one store or branch specified in the application. No other store or branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with it or in any way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
(Code 1977, § 16-71)
Sec. 26-224. - Same—Term.
A license issued under this article shall authorize the sale described in the application for a period of not more than 30 consecutive days, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof; provided, that a longer period may be designated by the mayor and council of the city upon good cause shown.
(Code 1977, § 16-72)
Sec. 26-225. - Same—Limitation as to type of sale.
A license issued under this article shall authorize only the one type of sale described in the application at the location named therein.
(Code 1977, § 16-73)
Sec. 26-226. - Same—Nontransferable.
Any license provided for by this article shall not be assignable or transferable.
(Code 1977, § 16-74)
Sec. 26-227. - Surrender of other licenses for going-out-of-business sale.
Upon being issued a license under this article for a going-out-of-business sale, the licensee shall surrender to the city all other business licenses he may hold at that time applicable to the location and goods covered by the application for a license under this article.
(Code 1977, § 16-75)
Sec. 26-228. - Interval between sales.
Any person who has held a sale, as regulated under this article, at the location stated in the application, within one year past from the date of such application, shall not be granted a license, except upon the approval of the mayor and council of the city.
(Code 1977, § 16-76)
Sec. 26-229. - Limitation on goods to be sold.
A license issued under this article shall authorize only the sale of goods described in the inventory attached to the application.
(Code 1977, § 16-77)
Sec. 26-230. - Duties of licensees.
A licensee under this article shall:
(1)
Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever, during the period of the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to the application for license;
(2)
Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or misleading advertising;
(3)
Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity with any advertising or holding out incident thereto;
(4)
Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application and shall present such duplicate to inspecting officials upon request; and
(5)
Segregate noninventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and apart from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale and shall make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all inventoried goods in and about the place of sale apprising the public of the status of all such goods.
(Code 1977, § 16-78)
Sec. 26-231. - Effect of article.
The provisions of this article are intended to augment and be in addition to the provisions of article II of this chapter. Where this article imposes a greater restriction upon persons, premises, businesses or practices than is imposed by article II, the provisions of this article shall control.
(Code 1977, § 16-79)
Sec. 26-232. - Applicability of article.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following persons:
(1)
Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2)
Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(3)
Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at auction.
(4)
Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication who publishes in good faith, any advertisement, without knowledge of its false, deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of this article have not been complied with.
(Code 1977, § 16-80)
Secs. 26-233—26-255. - Reserved.
