ARTICLE II. - TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Signs, ch. 66.

Sec. 82-51. - Authority to install generally.
The chief of police shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required under this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city to make effective the provisions of this chapter and such ordinances; and may cause to be placed and maintained such additional traffic control devices as they shall deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1977, § 24-32)
Sec. 82-52. - Manual and specifications or traffic control devices.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform as nearly as practicable to specifications in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices developed jointly by the American Association of State Highway Officials, the Institute of Traffic Engineers and the National Conference on Street and Highway Safety. All signals and signs required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official traffic control devices.
(Code 1977, § 24-33)
Sec. 82-53. - When required for enforcement.
No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not so located and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Code 1977, § 24-34)
Sec. 82-54. - Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
(a)
No person shall paint, place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing on the face thereof any commercial advertising. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to the highway of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
(b)
Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the chief of police is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without any notice whatsoever.
(Code 1977, § 24-35)
Sec. 82-55. - Crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark traffic lanes.
The chief of police is hereby authorized:
(1)
To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections and at such other places where in his opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and shall abolish those he deems to be unnecessary.
(2)
To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(3)
To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he may deem advisable, consistent with this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city.
(Code 1977, § 24-37)
Sec. 82-56. - School crossings.
The chief of police is authorized to mark with paint or other devices any crosswalks in the vicinity of any school, where the crossing of such roadway by schoolchildren is deemed dangerous. "School Zone" signs may be placed 100 feet from such crosswalks, on the right-hand side of the street.
(Code 1977, § 24-38)
Sec. 82-57. - Restricted turn signs.
The chief of police is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
(Code 1977, § 24-39)
Sec. 82-58. - Stop signs.
(a)
Whenever any ordinance of the city designates and describes a boulevard street it shall be the duty of the chief of police to place and maintain a stop sign of each and every street intersecting such boulevard street or intersecting that portion thereof described and designated as such by any ordinance of the city.
(b)
The chief of police is hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular hazards exist upon other than boulevard streets and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required.
(c)
Every sign erected pursuant to this section shall bear the word "STOP" in letters not less than six inches in height. Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in conformity with the recommendations of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Code 1977, § 24-40)
Sec. 82-59. - Signs.
The chief of police shall place and maintain suitable signs giving notice of all one-way streets, and no regulation as to one-way streets shall be maintained until such signs are so erected and in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Code 1977, § 24-41)
Sec. 82-60. - Parking control signs.
(a)
Whenever it is necessary under this chapter or any other ordinance of the city to erect signs or other devices regulating, limiting, or prohibiting parking, standing or stopping of a vehicle in any area, the chief of police shall have the authority to erect such signs or devices as he deems necessary, or that are required under this Code.
(b)
The chief of police shall further have the authority to erect a no parking sign and to prohibit the parking, standing or stopping of a vehicle in any area where a hazard exists.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey any limitation, prohibition or instruction contained in any sign erected under provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
(Code 1977, § 24-42)
Sec. 82-61. - Taxi stands.
The chief of police shall have the authority to establish and create or to abolish any taxi stands that he deems to be necessary and proper. Such stands shall be marked by appropriate signs, and it shall be unlawful for any other vehicle, other than a duly licensed taxi, to park therein.
(Code 1977, § 24-43)
Secs. 82-62—82-85. - Reserved.
