Chapter 10 - AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Businesses, ch. 18.
State Law reference— Exchange of free replay for anything of value unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 16-12-35(c); Amusement Ride Safety Act, O.C.G.A. § 34-12-1 et seq.; authority to license, tax and regulate billiard rooms, O.C.G.A. § 43-8-2; state licensing of coin-operated amusement machines, O.C.G.A. § 48-17-1 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 10-1—10-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Res. of 5-21-99, §§ 2—5, 8—11, 28—35, contained provisions that did not specifically amend the Code, and at the editor's discretion, the provisions were codified as §§ 10-51—10-66. For classification purposes, said sections were designated as Div. 2, Adult Entertainment Establishments, and existing §§ 10-31, 10-32, were designated as Div. 1, Generally. Any conflict shall be resolved in favor of the more stringent regulations.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-31. - Preamble and purpose.
(a)
Based upon the experiences of other urban counties and municipalities, and based upon the community concerns of the county, the county commissioner takes note of the notorious and self-evident conditions attendant to the commercial exploitation of human sexuality, which do not vary greatly among generally comparable communities within our country.
(b)
It is the finding of the county commissioner that public nudity and seminudity, under certain circumstances, particularly circumstances relating to the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in so-called "nude bars" or establishments offering so-called "nude entertainment," "adult entertainment," or "erotic entertainment," begets criminal behavior and tends to create undesirable community conditions. Among the acts of criminal behavior identified with nudity and alcohol are disorderly conduct, prostitution, and drug trafficking and use. Among the undesirable community conditions identified with nudity and alcohol are depression of property values in the surrounding neighborhoods, increased expenditure for and allocation of law enforcement personnel to preserve law and order, increased burden on the judicial system as a consequence of the criminal behavior described in this section, and acceleration of community blight by the concentration of such establishments in particular areas.
(c)
The limitation of nude or seminude conduct in establishments licensed to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises is in the public welfare and is a matter of governmental interest and concern to prevent the occurrence of criminal behavior and undesirable community conditions normally associated with establishments which serve alcohol and also allow and/or encourage nudity and seminudity.
(Ord. of 8-12-1991, § 1)
Sec. 10-32. - Enactment.
The following types of entertainment, attire, and conduct are not permitted upon premises licensed to sell, serve or dispense alcoholic beverages or upon premises licensed under the business and occupational ordinances of the county and in which alcoholic beverages are consumed, allowed or dispensed on the premises:
(1)
The employment or use of any person, in any capacity, in the sale or service of alcoholic beverages while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola or of any portion of the pubic hair, anus, cleft of the buttocks, vulva or genitals; or
(2)
Live entertainment in business establishments which provides or features nude or seminude or erotic dancing, or the performance of obscene acts or acts which simulate:
a.
Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law; or
b.
The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttock, anus or genitals; or
c.
The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals; or
(3)
The showing of any film, still pictures, electronic reproduction of other visual reproductions depicting any of the acts described in subsection (2) of this section which are obscene under state law; or its examining boards division and 38 boards within the division, is responsible for licensing a wide variety of professions; and,
(4)
The holding, promotion or allowance of any contest, promotion, special night or any other activity where patrons of the licensed establishment are encouraged or allowed to engage in any of the prohibited conduct listed in this section;
(5)
Notwithstanding the prohibitions in subsections (1) through (4) of this section, nothing in this article shall, or is intended to apply to theatrical or motion picture performance houses, museums, or the like where the consumption or service of alcohol is not a primary purpose or mainstream activity of such establishment.
(Ord. of 8-12-1991, § 2)
Secs. 10-33—10-50. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS

Sec. 10-51. - Purpose.
The purpose of this division is to regulate certain types of businesses, including but not limited to, adult entertainment establishments to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses will be curtailed; however, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dance establishments, this division represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods through the regulation of adult entertainment establishments and patrons.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 2)
Sec. 10-52. - Definitions.
The following terms used in this chapter defining adult entertainment establishments shall have the meanings indicated below:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade in books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material, or five percent of its net sales consisting of printed material which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult business means either (1) any business which is conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either by law or by the operators of such business; or (2) any business other than those expressly specified in this article, where employees or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage in specified sexual activities; or (3) any other business or establishment which offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features dancers displaying or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of fifty or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult mini-motion picture theater an enclosed building with a capacity of fifty or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult mini-motion picture theater an enclosed building with a capacity for less than fifty persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Massage parlor means an establishment in which services offered include some form of physical contact between employee and patron and in which services offered are characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade in video tapes or movies or other reproductions, for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Erotic dance establishment means a nightclub, theater or other establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Encounter center or rap establishment means any business, agency or person who, for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where two or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the primary purpose of engaging in, describing, or discussing specified sexual activities, or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau; introduction services means any business, agency or persons who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit furnishes or offers to furnish names of persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainment or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Lingerie modeling studio means an establishment whose primary business activity consists of persons exhibiting or modeling lingerie or similar undergarments and characterized or distinguished by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Good moral character. A person is of good moral character according to this chapter if that person has not been convicted of a felony or any crime not a felony if it involves moral turpitude in the past five years. The governing authority may also take into account such other factors as are necessary to determine the good moral character of the applicant or employee. Conviction shall include pleas of nolo contendere or bond forfeiture when charged with such crime.
Minor for the purposes of this division shall mean any person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
Specified sexual activities shall include any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piguerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
(2)
Clearly depicted human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
(3)
Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or masturbation; or
(4)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast; or
(5)
Torture;
(6)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being; or
(7)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented beating or the infliction of pain; or
(8)
Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
Specified anatomical areas shall include the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region; buttock; or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernible turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Sec. 10-53. - Erotic dance establishment regulations.
(a)
An erotic dance establishment shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses, and ages of all persons employed as dancers and all other employees of the establishment.
(b)
No adult entertainment establishment shall employ or contract as a dancer with a person under the age of 21 years.
(c)
No person under the age of 21 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
(d)
An erotic dance establishment shall be closed between 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., on Monday through Saturday, on Sunday and on December 25th of each year.
(e)
No erotic dance establishment shall serve, sell, distribute, or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating liquor or controlled substance upon the premises.
(f)
All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the first floor.
(g)
No dancing shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
(h)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer.
(i)
No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer.
(j)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(k)
All areas of an adult entertainment establishment hereunder shall be fully lighted at all times that patrons are present. Full lighting shall mean illumination equal to 3.5 foot candles per square foot.
(l)
If any portion, or subparagraph, of this section of this division, or its application to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder or application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 4)
Sec. 10-54. - Certain activities prohibited.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall publicly display or expose or suffer the public display or exposure, with less than a full opaque covering, of any portion of a person's genitals, pubic area or buttocks in a lewd and obscene fashion.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 5)
Sec. 10-55. - Admission of minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for an "adult entertainment business" to admit a minor within the premises.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 8)
Sec. 10-56. - Sales to minors unlawful.
It shall be unlawful for any person (absent parental supervision or supervision of a duly appointed guardian) to sell, barter or give, or to offer to sell, barter or give, to any minor any service, material, device or thing sold or offered for sale by an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult massage parlor or adult dancing establishment or other adult entertainment facility. Nothing herein is intended to authorize any parent or guardian to do any act or permit a minor possession of any good or service that is unlawful under any law of the State of Georgia or of the United States.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 9)
Sec. 10-57. - Location.
No adult entertainment establishment or use restricted hereunder shall be located:
(a)
Within 1000 feet of any parcel of land which is used for residential purposes;
(b)
Within 1000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, public park, hospital, nursing home or playground is located;
(c)
Within 2000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated or defined hereunder is located;
(d)
On a tract of land containing less than 200 feet of road frontage.
For the purposes of this section, distance shall be by airline measurement from property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land capable of being described by location and boundary, designated and used or to be used as a unit.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 10)
Sec. 10-58. - Adult entertainment establishment employees.
Qualifications. Employees of an adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 21 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character as defined in this division. Any employee who is convicted of a crime constituting a felony or a crime not a felony involving moral turpitude while employed as an adult entertainment establishment employee shall not thereafter work on any adult entertainment establishment premises for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" shall include an adjudication of guilt, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or the forfeiture of a bond when charged with a crime, and the terms "employed on the premises" and "work on any licensed premises" shall include as well, work done or services performed while in the scope of employment elsewhere than on the premises.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 11)
Sec. 10-59. - Violation; penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this division shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 28)
Sec. 10-60. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this division shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The governing authority may, in addition to, or in lieu of prosecuting a quasi-criminal action hereunder, commence an action or actions, proceeding or proceedings for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court or courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this division.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 29)
Sec. 10-61. - Cleaning of premises.
Each premise shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be cleaned at least once daily and more frequently when necessary. This activity shall be supervised by the person in charge of the premises. There shall be provided adequate facilities, equipment and supplies on the premises to meet this requirement, and adequate ventilation and illumination shall be provided to permit thorough, complete cleaning of the entire premises. Trash and garbage shall not be permitted to accumulate or to become a nuisance on or in the immediate vicinity of the premises but shall be disposed of daily or as often as collections permit.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 30)
Sec. 10-62. - Self-inspection of premises.
The business owner, or his designated representative shall make sanitary inspections of the premises at least once a month and shall record his findings on a form supplied by the governing authority. Each premises shall post and maintain in a readily accessible place a schedule for maintaining the sanitation of the premises.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 31)
Sec. 10-63. - Sealing for unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
The business, or any part thereof, may be sealed by order of the governing authority on his finding of a violation of this division resulting in an unsanitary or unsafe condition. Prior to sealing, the governing authority shall serve on the business, by personal service on him or by posting in a conspicuous place on the premises, a notice of the violation and an order to correct it within 24 hours after service. If the violation is not so corrected, the governing authority may physically seal that portion of the premises causing the violation and order the discontinuance of use thereof until the violation has been corrected and the seal removed by the governing authority. The governing authority shall affix to the sealed premises a conspicuous sign labeled "Unclean" or "unsafe", as the case may be.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 32)
Sec. 10-64. - Abatement as sanitary nuisance.
A business, or any part thereof, may be abated as a sanitary nuisance.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 33)
Sec. 10-65. - Severability.
If any portion or section of this division or its application to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder or application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 34)
Sec. 10-66. - Effective date.
This division shall be of full force and effect at the earliest date after passage the public health, safety and welfare demanding it.
(Res. of 5-21-99, § 35)
