PART I - CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS
Subpart A - CHARTER
H.B. No. 1904
AN ACT
To create a charter for the City of Bloomingdale in the County of Chatham; to provide for definitions; to provide for the corporate limits; to provide for corporate powers; to provide for the election of the mayor and councilmen; to provide for a city council; to provide for certain powers and duties of the mayor; to provide for a vice mayor; to provide for the filling of vacancies in the offices of mayor and councilmen; to provide for certain restrictions on councilmen; to provide for a city clerk and for an official city newspaper; to provide for city legislation; to provide for certain rules and regulations; to provide for the organization and personnel of the city government; to provide for the administrative duties of the mayor; to provide for a city attorney; to provide for a city court, city court judge and clerk; to provide for certain other officers and employees; to provide for the appointment, suspension and removal of employees; to provide for an oath of office; to provide for official bonds; to provide that officers and employees shall not profit from connection with the city; to provide for the fiscal administration of the city government; to provide for city purchasing; to provide for the sale of city property; to provide for annual audits; to provide for property taxes; to provide for a tax levy; to provide tax due dates and tax bills; to provide for collection of delinquent taxes; to provide for certain special assessments; to provide for disbursements; to provide for an official depository; to provide for certain restrictions on actions for damages against the city; to provide that general laws may be used; to provide for certain penalties; to provide for all procedures, requirements and other matters in connection with the foregoing; to provide for severability; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other purposes.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF GEORGIA:
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 1974 Georgia Laws, page 3439, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
ARTICLE I - CHARTER, DEFINITIONS, CORPORATE LIMITS AND CORPORATE POWERS

Sec. 1.01. - Charter.
This Act shall constitute the whole charter of the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia. The City of Bloomingdale, Georgia, in the County of Chatham, and the inhabitants thereof, are hereby constituted and declared a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the "City of Bloomingdale," and by that name shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, in all the courts of law and equity, and in all actions whatsoever, and may have and use a common seal and change it at pleasure.
Sec. 1.02. - Definitions.
As used in this Act the following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
(a)
"City" shall mean the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia.
(b)
"Councilman" shall mean a person elected to the city council as provided in this Act.
(c)
"Member of the council" shall mean the mayor and each councilman.
(d)
"Nonpartisan" shall mean without any designation of candidates and members or candidates of any state or national political party or organization.
(e)
"At large" shall mean the entire city, as distinguished from representation by wards or other districts.
(f)
"Public way" shall mean any land used by the public as a passageway including, but not limited to, streets, roads, highways, expressways, freeways, boulevards, avenues, parkways, alleys, lanes, sidewalks, walks, bridges, viaducts, subways, underpasses, tunnels, and other thoroughfares, and including the rights-of-way of such public ways.
(g)
"Agency" shall mean any office, court, utility, board, commission, institution, or other organization in charge of or administering any public function or municipal affair of the city.
(h)
"Officer" shall mean and include the mayor, councilman, city judge, member of boards and commissions, and any other persons classified as public officers by the laws or judicial decisions of this state. An "officer" as herein defined shall fill an "office," and an "employee" shall fill a "position of employment."
(i)
"Elector" shall mean a person residing within the city who is qualified to vote therein.
(j)
The masculine shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
(k)
The word "shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
Sec. 1.03. - Corporate limits.
The corporate limits of the city shall be described as follows:
(a)
Beginning at the intersection of the Pipe Maker Canal and Triplicate #3 of Pipe Maker Canal, then south along the eastern right-of-way line of Triplicate #3 of Pipe Maker Canal to the intersection of Triplicate #3 with the southern right-of-way line of the Central of Georgia Railroad property (old railroad bed), then in an easterly direction along the southern right-of-way line to the intersection with the eastern right-of-way line of the Osteen Road, then in a southwesterly direction along said right-of-way line to the intersection of said Osteen Road, with the Little Ogeechee River (known locally as Creek), then in a southeasterly direction along the channel of the Little Ogeechee to the point where said creek or river intersects with the northern right-of-way line of Interstate 16, then in an easterly direction along the northern right-of-way line of said I-16 to the point of intersection with the northern right-of-way line of the Old Pine Barren Road, then in an easterly direction along the northern right-of-way line of the Old Pine Barren Road, to the point where the Old Pine Barren Road becomes the New Pine Barren Road (paved road), then continue in an easterly direction along the northern right-of-way line of the New Pine Barren Road to the point of intersection with the western right-of-way line of the Wild Cat Dam Road, then in a northerly direction along said right-of-way to the point of intersection with U.S. Highway 80, then in a westerly direction along the northern right-of-way of U.S. Highway 80 to the intersection of said Highway 80 with Triplicate #2 of Pipe Maker Canal, then in a northeasterly direction along the western right-of-way line of Triplicate #2 of Pipe Maker Canal until said canal intersects with the Pipe Maker Canal, then in a westerly direction along the southern right-of-way line of Pipe Maker Canal to the point of beginning. The above described area is entirely within the 8th G.M. District, Chatham County.
(b)
The corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale shall also include the territory described as follows:
Begin at the intersection of the easterly right-of-way line of Osteen Road with the northerly right-of-way line of Central of Georgia Railroad's former main line; extend thence westwardly along said northerly right-of-way line for a distance of 7,450 feet, more or less, to a point on the County line for Effingham and Chatham Counties; extend thence southwestwardly along said County line for a distance of 4,300 feet, more or less, to a point on the northerly side of a road owned by Union Camp Corporation; extend thence generally eastwardly along said Union Camp Corporation road for a distance of 1,900 feet, more or less, to the westerly side of another Union Camp Corporation road; extend thence generally in an eastwardly direction along the westerly and northerly side of said Union Camp Corporation road for a distance of 4,550 feet, more or less, to the easterly right-of-way of Osteen Road, said right-of-way is also the existing corporate limit line; extend thence northeastwardly along said easterly right-of-way line and existing corporate limit line for a distance of 5,000 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning.
(c)
The corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale shall also include the territory described as follows:
Commence at the intersection of the centerline of Sangrena Drive with the northerly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 80; extend thence westwardly along said northerly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 80 for a distance of 300 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning lying on a property line which runs northeast; extend thence along said northerly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 80 for a distance of 1,000 feet, more or less, to a point lying on a property line running north; extend thence N 20°02′ E along said property line running north for a distance of 850 feet, more or less, to a point on a property line running southeast; extend thence S 41°21′ E along said property line running southeast for a distance of 1,288 feet, more or less, to a point; extend thence S 47°23′ W along a property line for a distance of 264.75 feet to the point of beginning.
(d)
The corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale shall also include the territory described as follows:
TRACT I
Point of Beginning: The present intersection of the northern boundary line of the Bloomingdale City limits and the Chatham/Effingham County line; thence in a northerly direction along the said Chatham/Effingham County line to the intersection of said county line with the northern right-of-way line of Highway 80; thence in an easterly direction along the northern right-of-way line of Highway 80 to the intersection of the present western city limits of the City of Bloomingdale and the northern right-of-way line of Highway 80; thence in a southern direction along the western city limits of the City of Bloomingdale to a certain point where the City limits turns in a westerly direction and becomes the northern boundary line of the City of Bloomingdale; thence along this boundary line in a westerly direction to the point where this above mentioned northern boundary line intersects the Chatham/Effingham County line (by point of beginning).
TRACT II
Beginning at the intersection of the Little Ogeechee River (the present corporate limits) and the northern right-of-way line of the Savannah Electric and Power Company's high voltage transmission line (erected in the fall of 1941) and in a westerly direction along said right-of-way line for a distance of 3,000 feet to a point on said right-of-way line, then in a southwesterly direction in a straight line a distance of 2,000 feet to a point on the eastern right-of-way line of the eastern fork of the Osteen Road (also known as the Lightsey Road), then in a southerly direction along said eastern right-of-way line to a point where said road intersects the northern right-of-way of Interstate 16. Then in a southerly direction across Interstate 16 to the southern right-of-way line of Interstate 16, then in a easterly direction along said right-of-way to the point of the beginning of the southern right-of-way line of the southwestern ramp of Interstate 16 leading to Ga. 17, then along said right-of-way line to the end of Ga. 17, then across the end of Ga. 17 to the eastern right-of-way line of the New Little Neck Road, then in a southerly direction a distance of 4,100 feet to the northern right-of-way line of the Red Hill Road. Then in an easterly direction along the northern right-of-way line of the Red Hill Road for a distance of 2,000 feet to a point where said Red Hill Road intersects the Old Little Neck Road. Then in a continuing easterly direction for a distance of 1,400 feet to the channel of the Little Ogeechee River, then in a northerly direction along the channel of the Little Ogeechee River a distance of 2,400 feet to a point where the said Little Ogeechee River intersects the southern right-of-way line of Interstate 16, then in an easterly direction along the southern right-of-way line of Interstate 16 for a distance of 1,250 feet to the corporate limits of the City of Pooler. Then in a northerly direction a distance of 300 feet to the northern right-of-way line of Interstate 16, then in a westerly direction along the northern right-of-way line of Interstate 16 for a distance of 1,000 feet to the channel of the Little Ogeechee River, then in a northerly and westerly direction along said channel to the existing corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale. Then in a continuing westerly direction a distance of 2,500 feet along said channel of the Little Ogeechee River to a point. Then at this point at a 90 degree angle in a southerly direction a distance of 250 feet to a point on the northern right-of-way line of Interstate 16, then along said northern right-of-way in a westerly direction to the northeastern ramp leading to Ga. 17. Then along the northeastern right-of-way line of said ramp to a point where said ramp intersects Ga. 17, then in a northerly direction along the eastern right-of-way line of Ga. 17 to the Little Ogeechee River (present corporate limits), then in a northwesterly direction along the channel of the Little Ogeechee River to the intersection with the northern right-of-way line of the Savannah Electric and Power Company's transmission line to the point of beginning.
(e)
The corporate limits of Bloomingdale shall include the following described tracts of land:
TRACT I
All that certain tract or parcel of land situate, lying, and being in Chatham County, Georgia, contiguous to the present northern city limits of the City of Bloomingdale, containing portions of Stagecoach Road, Perry Road, Nursery Road, the Jimmy Deloach Parkway, Adams Road, and Godley Road, and being bounded as follows: On the Northwest by the Chatham County/Effingham County line; on the North by the city limits of the City of Savannah; on the East by the city limits of the City of Pooler; and on the South by the southern boundary line of Pipemaker's Canal and the present northern city limits of the City of Bloomingdale.
TRACT II
All that certain tract or parcel of land situate, lying, and being in Chatham County, Georgia, contiguous to the present southern city limits of the City of Bloomingdale, containing Wallace Drive, Wallace Circle, and portions of Pine Barren Road, and being bounded as follows: On the North by the southern right-of-way line of U.S. Interstate Highway No. 16; on the East by the western right-of-way line of Little Neck Road; on the South by the southern right-of-way lines of Arnsdorff Road and Red Hill Road; and on the west by the western right-of-way line of Arnsdorff Road.
(f)
The following area contiguous to the City of Bloomingdale is hereby annexed into and is made a part of said city:
All that certain tract or parcel of land situate, lying, and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, known as Wild Cat Dam Road, a thirty (30′) foot wide right-of-way, being bounded on the West by the city limits of Bloomingdale, Georgia; on the South by the northern right-of-way line of Pine Barren Road; on the East by the city limits of Pooler, Georgia; and on the North by the southern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 80.
(g)
The area contiguous to the City of Bloomingdale described as follows, is hereby annexed into the City of Bloomingdale, and made a part of said City, with an RA-1 zoning classification:
All that certain lot, tract, or parcel of land situate, lying, and being in Chatham County, Georgia, known as Part of the Carter Brothers Tract between U.S. Interstate 16 and the Little Ogeechee River, being presently identified by the Tax Commissioner's Office of Chatham County, Georgia, with a Property Identification Number of 1-1040-02-002, and shown on that certain plat dated April 18, 2002, prepared by Hussey, Gay, Bell & DeYoung, Inc., Consulting Engineers, attached hereto [the ordinance from which this subsection is derived] Attachment "1" and incorporated herein by reference for better determining the metes, bounds, courses, and distances of the subject property which is shown therein to be bounded as follows: On the North by properties now or formerly owned by Darwin K. Morgan and by the Little Ogeechee River; on the East by the Little Ogeechee River and other properties now or formerly owned by Sustainable Forests, LLC (being assigned a Property Identification Number of 8-1040-01-006 by the aforesaid Tax Commissioner's Office); and on the South by U.S. Interstate 16.
(h)
The following area contiguous to the City of Bloomingdale is hereby annexed into and is made a part of said city pursuant to Title 36, Chapter 36, Article 2, of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated (the "100% method"):
All that certain tract or parcel of land situate, lying, and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, now or formerly owned by Ferman and Ginger Tyler, being the northern one-half of Lot No. One (1) of the original Orendolph Estate located three miles Southeast of the City of Bloomingdale on Osteen Road, and containing 48.80 acres, being shown and designated as Parcel 1 on a survey plat thereof, dated December 4, 2002, prepared by Warren E. Poythress, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor, a copy of which plat is recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of Chatham County, Georgia, in Plat Record Book 24-P, Page 37, which plat is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes of this description. Said property has the metes, bounds, and dimensions as shown on said plat, and is substantially the same property as those two tracts of land together containing 48.3 acres of land as shown on that certain plat of survey made by Robert C. Cox, Registered Surveyor, for James Robert Williams, dated August 5, 1968, which plat is recorded in the aforesaid Clerk's Office in Plat Record Book T, Page 39. Said property is also substantially the same property as was conveyed by a warranty deed dated July 31, 1970, from Nedra June Barnett, et al., to James Robert Williams, recorded in Deed Record Book 97-W, Folio 57, in the aforesaid Clerk's Office. Said property is also known by the street address of 887 Osteen Road, Bloomingdale, Georgia, and has been given a Property Tax Identification Number of 1-1041-1-9 by the Tax Assessor of Chatham County, Georgia, as shown on the tax map attached hereto [the ordinance from which this subsection is derived] as Exhibit "A" which is also incorporated herein by reference for all purposes of this description.
Also, all that certain tract or parcel of land measuring 119.737 acres, more or less, being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, to the South of the city limits of Bloomingdale, now or formerly owned by Samuel E. Morgan, G. Philip Morgan, et al., located to the North of the above-described parcel of Ferman and Ginger Tyler, and having been given a Property Tax Identification number of 1-1041-1-18 by the Tax Assessor of Chatham County, Georgia, as shown on the tax map attached hereto [the ordinance from which this subsection is derived] as Exhibit "A" which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof for all purposes of this description. The subject property is bounded as follows: On the Northeast by property now or formerly owned by Samuel E. Morgan, G. Philip Morgan, et al. (Property Tax Identification Number 8-1042-1-15); on the Southeast by Osteen Road; on the Southwest by properties now or formerly owned by Sustainable Forests, LLC (Property Tax identification Number 1-1041-1-1), Wesley Lee Barnett, Jr. (Property Tax Identification Number 1-1041-1-11), Ferman and Ginger Tyler (Property Tax Identification Number 1-1041-1-9), and Samuel E. Morgan, G. Philip Morgan, et al. (Property Tax Identification Number 1-1044-1-4); and on the Northwest by the Effingham County Line.
The property herein annexed shall have a zoning classification of Residential-Agricultural-1.
(i)
The following property is hereby de-annexed from the corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia:
Legal Description of 29.90 acres being
Deannexed from Bloomingdale and Annexed into Pooler
All that certain tract or parcel of land, measuring 29.90 acres, more or less, situate, lying and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, being a portion of the 1,206.49 acre portion of the Morgan Tract "Q" shown on a plat dated December 20, 2001, and prepared by Leon A. Zipperer, Georgia Land Surveyor No. 2373, and being more particularly shown on that certain plat dated August 17, 2004, prepared by Michael E. Stone, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor No. 2747, said plat being incorporated herein by reference and being made a part hereof for better determining the metes, bounds, courses, and distances of the subject property which is described therein as follows:
Commencing at a 5/8" rebar found at the intersection of the western right-of-way line of the Pooler Parkway and the northern right-of-way line of Pine Barren Road; running thence North 67°52′50″ W for a distance of 2,423.52 feet to a 5/8" rebar found at the intersection of the northern right-of-way line of Pine Barren Road and the southern right-of-way line of Old Pine Barren Road; running thence N55°17′45″ W for a distance of 1,019.87 feet along the southern right-of-way line of Old Pine Barren Road to a 5/8" rebar found at the intersection of the southern right-of-way line of Old Pine Barren Road with the southern right-of-way line of Old Pine Barren Road (not open), said point being the Point of Beginning; running thence S63°47′15″ W for a distance of 788.91 feet to a point; running thence along a curve to the left having a radius of 1,959.86 feet and an arc length of 505.74 feet, being subtended by a chord of S70°43′40″ W for a distance of 504.34 feet to a concrete monument found; running thence S63°26′13″ W for a distance of 592.25 feet to a concrete monument found; running thence N77°31′24″ W for a distance of 774.99 feet to a point; running thence N02°47′28″ W for a distance of 50.97 feet to a point; running thence N41°27′23″ E for a distance of 40.68 feet to a point; running thence N68°43′54″ E for a distance of 162.87 feet to a point; running thence N78°52′27″ E for a distance of 122.05 feet to a point; running thence S84°40′17″ E for a distance of 99.42 feet to a point; running thence N65°14′13″ E for a distance of 127.89 feet to a point; running thence N33°57′06″ E for a distance of 111.77 feet to a point; running thence N72°06′54″ E for a distance of 131.98 feet to a point; running thence N29°19′22″ E for a distance of 134.11 feet to a point; running thence N20°56′34″ W for a distance of 47.56 feet to a point; running thence S83°59′36″ W for a distance of 46.54 feet to a point; running thence N34°23′51″ W for a distance of 16.61 feet to a point; running thence N41°34′33″ E for a distance of 103.00 feet to a point; running thence S50°44′39″ E for a distance of 42.44 feet to a point; running thence S68°49′19″ E for a distance of 102.25 feet to a point; running thence N39°28′18″ E for a distance of 113.74 feet to a point; running thence N39°2′51″ W for a distance of 66.46 feet to a point; running thence N13°31′48″ E for a distance of 86.62 feet to a point; running thence N15°16′55″ E for a distance of 59.53 feet to a point; running thence N35°56′19″ W for a distance of 45.25 feet to a point; running thence N27°52′10″ W for a distance of 62.98 feet to a point; running thence N00°43′42″ E for a distance of 43.30 feet to a point; running thence N50°07′23″ E for a distance of 69.07 feet to a point; running thence N56°15′31″ E for a distance of 91.78 feet to a point located on the northern right-of-way line of Wildcat Dam Road; running thence S66°22′26″ E for a distance of 76.16 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S67°51′18″ E for a distance of 104.83 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S73°53′26″ E for a distance of 81.56 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S86°49′41″ E for a distance of 160.33 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S85°58′16″ E for a distance of 359.71 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S83°05′59″ E for a distance of 278.15 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S62°34′53″ E for a distance of 67.18 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S57°1′3″ E for a distance of 140.77 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S54°51′43″ E for a distance of 272.79 feet along said northern right-of-way line to a point; running thence S63°47′15″ W for a distance of 42.30 feet to a 5/8" rear found, said point being Point of Beginning.
The above described property is shown by the above mentioned plat dated August 17, 2004, to be bounded as follows:
On the South by lands now or formerly Pooler Acres LLC, et al., by properties now of formerly G. M. Ortega, and by the northern right-of-way line of Pine Barren Road (100' R/W); on the West and North by lands now of formerly Samuel H. Morgan, Edward H. Morgan & G.P. Morgan; on the East by lands now formerly of Pooler Acres LLC, et al., and by the northern right-of-way Pine Barren Road (100' R/W).
(j)
The following property is hereby annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia:
All that certain tract or parcel of land situate, lying and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, measuring 29.90 acres, more or less, being a part of the 1,206.49 acre portion of the Morgan Tract "Q" shown on a plat dated December 20, 2001, and prepared by Leon A. Zipperer, Georgia Land Surveyor No. 2373, and being more particularly shown on that certain plat dated August 17, 2004, prepared by Michael E. Stone, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor No. 2747, said plat being incorporated herein by reference and being made a part hereof for better determining the metes, bounds, courses, and distances of the subject property which is described therein as follows:
Commencing at a "hole-F" in a concrete bridge located at the intersection of the center line of the Hardin Canal and the center line of Wildcat Dam Road, and proceed thence S25°46′04″ E for a distance of 10.00 feet to a point located at the intersection of the center line of the Hardin Canal and eastern right-of-way line of Wildcat Dam Road, said point being the Point of Beginning; running thence S25°46′04″ for a distance of 39.69 feet to a point; running thence S36°46′47″ E for a distance of 115.19 feet to a point; running thence S49°20′57″ E for a distance of 161.78 feet to a point; running thence S65°24′50″ E for a distance of 231.18 feet to a point; running thence S71°07′19″ E for a distance of 227.22 feet to a point; running thence S18°22′30″ W for a distance of 12.88 feet to a 5/8" rebar found; running thence S18°22′30″ W for a distance of 916.23 feet to a concrete monument found; running thence S18°20′34″ W for a distance of 439.79 feet to a concrete monument found on the northern right-of-way line of Georgia Central Railroad 100'R/W; running thence N71°3′43″ W for a distance of 960.59 feet to a point; running thence N18°22′30″ E for a distance of 1,099.73 feet to a point located on the southern right-of-way line of Wildcat Dam Road; running thence N84°07′42″ E for a distance of 65.25 feet to a point; running thence N77°45′55″ E for a distance of 84.65 feet to a point; running thence N59°16′59″ E for a distance of 52.23 feet to a point; running thence N38°30′05″ E for a distance of 40.97 feet to a point; running thence N28°08′54″ E for a distance of 298.86 feet to a point, said point being the Point of Beginning.
The above described property is shown by the above mentioned plat dated August 17, 2004, to be bounded as follows:
On the North by the southern right-of-way line of Wildcat Dam Road, and by the center line of the Hardin Canal; on the East by a portion of the Shearouse Tract and lands that were formerly of Daniel Seabrooks; on the South by Georgia Central Railroad 100' R/W; and on the West by lands now or formerly of Samuel H. Morgan, Edward H. Morgan, and G.P. Morgan.
(k)
The following property is hereby de-annexed from the corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia:
All that certain tract or parcel of land, situate, lying, and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, measuring 128.80 acres, more or less, being a part of the 1,206.49 acre portion of the Morgan Tract "Q" shown on a plat dated December 20, 2001, and prepared by Leon A. Zipperer, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor no. 2373, recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior court of Chatham County, Georgia, in Plat Record Book 23-P, Page 51, said 128.80 acre parcel being designated as "Tract 1" on the annexation map attached hererto as Exhibit "2" prepared by Michael E. Stone, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor No. 2747, dated February 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof for better determining the metes, bounds, courses and distance of the property which is shown therein as being bounded as follows:
On the East by lands now or formerly of Daniel Seabrooks and the Town of Pooler; on the South by the Georgia Central Railroad Right-of-way (measuring 100 feet in width); on the West by lands now or formerly of G. Philip Morgan, III, G. Philip Morgan, IV, Winnifred Lane Morgan, Henry S. Morgan, Samuel H. Morgan, Bernice Morgan Kuhn, Holley Peters Dyer, and Valeria Morgan family Properties II, LLC; and on the North by lands now or formerly of Bessie Seabrooks and the land now or formerly of G. Philip Morgan, III, G. Philip Morgan, IV, Winnifred Lane Morgan, Henry S. Morgan, Samuel H. Morgan, Bernice Morgan Kuhn, Holley Peters Dyer, and Valeria Morgan Family Properties II, LLC.
(l)
The following property is hereby annexed into the corporate limits of the City of Bloomingdale, Georgia:
All that certain tract or parcel of land, situate, lying, and being in the 8th G.M. District of Chatham County, Georgia, measuring 90.66 acres, more or less, being a part of the 1,206.49 acre portion of the Morgan Tract "Q" shown on a plat dated December 20, 2001, and prepared by Leon A. Zipperer, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor no. 2373, recorded in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior court of Chatham County, Georgia, in Plat Record Book 23-P, Page 51, said 90.66 acre parcel being designated as "Tract 2" on the annexation map attached hererto as Exhibit "1" prepared by Michael E. Stone, Georgia Registered Land Surveyor No. 2747, dated February 14, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof for better determining the metes, bounds, courses and distances of the property which is shown therein as being bounded as follows:
On the North by the Georgia Central Railroad Right-of-way (measuring 100 feet in width); on the East by properties now or formerly of Commonwealth Commercial Properties, LLC, and other lands now or formerly of G. Philip Morgan, III, G. Philip Morgan, IV, Winnifred Lane Morgan, Henry S. Morgan, Samuel H. Morgan, Bernice Morgan Kuhn, Holley Peters Dyer, and Valeria Morgan family Properties II, LLC; on the South by lands now or formerly of G. Philip Morgan, III, G. Philip Morgan, IV, Winnifred Lane Morgan, Henry S. Morgan, Samuel H. Morgan, Bernice Morgan Kuhn, Holley Peters Dyer, and Valeria Morgan Family Properties II, LLC; and on the West by the eastern right-of-way line of the Old Wildcat Dam Road.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4076, § 1; 1982 Ga. Laws, p. 4298, § 1; 1987 Ga. Laws, p. 4904, § 1; 1998 Ga. Laws, p. 3888, § 1; Ord. of 1-4-2001, § 1; Ord. of 5-2-2002, § 1; Ord. of 11-21-2002(2), § 1; Ord. of 4-15-2004, §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 10-7-2004; Ord. of 11-18-2004; Ord. of 6-15-2006; Ord. of 7-20-2006)
Sec. 1.04. - Corporate powers.
The corporate powers of the city, to be exercised by the city council, shall include the following:
(a)
To levy and to provide for the assessment and collection of taxes on all property subject to taxation.
(b)
To levy and to provide for the collection of license taxes on privileges, occupations, trades, and professions. A collection fee of one dollar ($1.00) may be added to each such license tax.
(c)
To levy and provide for the collection of registration fees on automobiles and trucks owned by residents of the city, and also on automobiles and trucks owned by nonresidents and operated within the city with any regularity. Such registration fees on trucks or automobiles may be graduated according to their tonnage capacities, weight or horsepower.
(d)
To appropriate and borrow money to provide for payment of the debts of the city, and to authorize the expenditure of money for any municipal purpose or matter of national or state interest.
(e)
To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real, personal or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
(f)
To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or future use, under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia of 1933, or under other applicable public acts.
(g)
To acquire, operate and dispose of public utilities, subject to the provisions of applicable general laws.
(h)
To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and public services, not to exceed a period of 40 years. The council may prescribe the rates, fares, regulations, and standards and conditions of service applicable to the service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor.
(i)
To regulate the rates and services of public utilities insofar as not in conflict with such regulation by the state railroad and public utilities commission or other similar state or federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
(j)
To provide for the acquisition, construction, operation and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets and market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport, curative, corrective, detentional, penal and medical institutions, agencies and facilities, and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city, and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be taken under section 36-202 of the Code of Georgia, or other applicable public acts.
(k)
To prescribe reasonable standards of health and sanitation and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(l)
To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse. Charges may be imposed to cover the costs of such services which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies as a lien for city property taxes.
(m)
To define, regulate and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or use of property, detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health, morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants of the city.
(n)
To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installation and equipment, plumbing, and housing for the health, sanitation, cleanliness and safety of inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(o)
To regulate and license weights and measures.
(p)
To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city court shall work out such sentences on the streets or any public works of the city or in a city workhouse established for this purpose, as provided by ordinance; or the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to the county workhouse or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
(q)
To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large of animals and fowls and to provide for the impoundment of same in violation of any ordinance or lawful order and for their disposition, by sale, gift, or humane killing when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
(r)
To regulate any railroad crossings or trains within the city.
(s)
To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city; to limit the number of such vehicles; to require the operators thereof to be licensed; to require public liability insurance of such vehicles in amounts prescribed by ordinance; and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways for the use of such vehicles.
(t)
To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments for public improvements.
(u)
To provide that the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation or order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(v)
To exercise and enjoy all other powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, and all implied powers necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in the Act as fully and completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein. No enumeration of particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others, nor restrictive or general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the constitution or applicable public acts of the state.
(w)
To purchase, finance, operate and maintain a municipal waterworks within the city, with all its rights, appurtenances, equipment, franchises, systems and goodwill, now owned or operated within the city and its suburbs, by the owners thereof, Bloomingdale Waterworks, Inc., at a price to be agreed upon by and between the mayor and council of the city and the owners of said system of waterworks, at the time of sale; and the mayor and council of the city are hereby authorized to own, finance and operate within the city, and County of Chatham, a system of waterworks for supplying water to the citizens of the city and those living in the vicinity, and to provide adequate water for use and protection of the public, whenever the city shall acquire the same as provided for in this Act.
When the purchase price of said waterworks system has been ascertained, the mayor and council of the city shall have full power and authority, and it shall be their duty, to issue bonds, or secure other means of finance, in a sum not to exceed the total purchase price of said system, plus any projected necessary improvements in order to provide a waterworks system adequate for all consumers of water supplied from said system.
To conduct a special election for the purpose of obtaining the assent of a majority of the qualified voters of the city, to the issue of said bonds or other means of finance, to purchase and operate said waterworks. If assent of a majority of the qualified voters in said special election is obtained for the issuing of bonds or securing other means of finance, then the mayor and council shall use as much of the proceeds thereby obtained as may be necessary to purchase said waterworks system at the price ascertained by this Act provided, free from all liens and encumbrances of every kind, and to provide for any extension or alteration of said system as is necessary to provide the citizens with an adequate water system.
After said special election is held for the issue of said bonds or other method of financing, and the result of said election should be against the issue of said bonds or other method of financing for said purpose, then the mayor and council of the city shall have full power and authority to make a contract with the Bloomingdale Waterworks, Inc., for supplying the city, and the citizens thereof, with adequate water for the uses of both; for such periods and on such terms as the parties may desire.
After said special election is held for the issue of said bonds or other method of financing, and the result of said election shall be for the issuance of said bonds, or other method of financing, then the mayor and council of the city shall have full power and authority to constitute and appoint a waterworks commission, consisting of not less than three (3) members, chosen either from the members of the city council or from the body of citizens of the city, whose qualifications, duties, terms, compensation and responsibilities shall be established by the mayor and council of said city.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4073, § 1; HB 753/Act No. 82, § 1)
ARTICLE II. - CITY COUNCIL

Sec. 2.01. - Election of mayor and councilmembers; qualifications; oath of office; organizational meeting.
(a)
The mayor and six councilmembers elected in June of 1990, whose term normally would expire on the first day of July of 1992, shall remain in office until December 31, 1993, and until their successors are elected and qualified. On the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November of 1993, and every fourth year thereafter, successors to such mayor and councilmembers shall be elected and shall serve for terms of office of four years and until their successors are elected and qualified and shall take office on the first day of January following their election. The candidate for mayor receiving the highest number of votes shall be deemed elected mayor, and the six candidates receiving the highest number of votes for councilmember shall be deemed elected councilmembers. Any elector having resided in the city for not less than 12 months may be qualified as a candidate by complying with the applicable provisions of Code Section 21-2-132 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated. Each elector shall be entitled to vote for one candidate for mayor and six candidates for councilmember at each election. No informality shall invalidate such an election, provided it is conducted fairly and in substantial conformity with the requirements of this Act and the general election laws of the State of Georgia.
(b)
On the first Thursday after January 1 following each regular city election, the mayor and council shall hold a special meeting at which the oath of office shall be administered to the mayor and councilmembers as follows:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform the duties of (mayor or councilmember as the case may be) of the city and that I will support and defend the charter thereof as well as the Constitution and laws of the State of Georgia and of the United States of America."
The mayor and council shall meet for organization at its first regular meeting next following the meeting at which the oath of office has been administered.
(c)
Any person, in order to be eligible to hold the office of mayor or councilmember must be at least 21 years of age for mayor and 21 years of age for councilmember.
(2001 Ga. Laws, p. 4010, § 1)
Sec. 2.02. - City council.
The mayor and six (6) councilmen shall compose the city council, in which is vested all corporate legislative and other powers of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act. The council shall be the final judge of the election and qualifications of its members. The city council shall be authorized to fix the compensation and allowances of the mayor and councilmen, but such compensation and allowances shall be fixed at the first regular meeting held in January of each year and shall not be changed during the year. The council shall hold regular public meetings at a stated time and place, as provided by ordinance. The council shall meet in special session on written call of the mayor or any two (2) councilmen and served on the other members personally or left at their residences at least twelve (12) hours in advance of the meeting, but such notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the mayor and all councilmen are present when the special meeting is called. Only the business stated in the written call may be transacted at a special meeting, except by unanimous consent of all members of the council. The council shall exercise its powers only in public meetings. A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council may by ordinance adopt rules and bylaws to govern the conduct of its business, including procedures and penalties for compelling the attendance of absent members. The council may subpoena and examine witnesses, order the production of books and papers, and have the same powers as a circuit court to punish for refusal to obey such an order or subpoena or for disorderly or contemptuous behavior in the presence of the council.
Sec. 2.03. - Mayor as presiding officer.
The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall have a vote only in case of a tie, but no veto power, shall be the ceremonial head of the city, shall sign ordinances and resolutions on their final passage, shall sign deeds, bonds and contracts when authorized by the council to do so, shall be the officer to accept process against the city, and shall perform other duties imposed by this Act and ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Sec. 2.04. - Vice mayor.
The mayor and councilmembers, at their first regular meeting after their election, shall elect one of the councilmembers as vice-mayor who shall, in case of the absence or disqualification of the mayor or of vacancy in that office, perform and discharge all duties and exercise all of the authority of the office of mayor, upon taking the usual oath of that office as is herein prescribed.
(1985 Ga. Laws, p. 4119, § 1)
Sec. 2.05. - Vacancy in office of mayor or councilman.
A vacancy shall exist if the mayor or a councilman resigns, dies, moves his residence from the city, has been continuously disabled for a period of six (6) months so as to prevent him from discharging the duties of his office, accepts any federal, state, county or other municipal elected office or is convicted of malfeasance or misfeasance in office, or felony, a violation of the Act or a violation of the election laws of the state. The council shall appoint a qualified person to fill such a vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term. At no time shall there be more than two (2) members so appointed holding office, and if a vacancy occurs with two (2) members so appointed on the council, a special election shall be held by the county election managers on the eighth Wednesday following occurrence of the vacancy, at which election a mayor or councilman, as the case may be, shall be elected to serve the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacant office; provided that no such election shall be held if a regular annual election will occur within six (6) months. Candidates in such a special election shall be nominated as provided in section 2.01 of this Act.
Sec. 2.06. - City clerk.
The mayor shall appoint a city clerk, subject to council approval, who shall be responsible for keeping and preserving the city seal and all records of the council; attending meetings of the council and keeping a journal of its proceedings at such meetings, including the names of members present and absent, the vote of each member on each question, each motion considered, and the title of each resolution or ordinance considered; preparing and certifying copies of official records in his office, for which fees may be prescribed by ordinance; and performing such other duties as may be required by the council or mayor.
Sec. 2.07. - Official city newspaper.
The council by resolution shall designate a newspaper of general circulation within the city as the official newspaper.
Sec. 2.08. - City legislation.
Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect, relating to revenue or the expenditure of money, or required to be done by ordinance under this Act, shall be done only by ordinance. The affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the council shall be required to pass any motion, resolution or ordinance. The original copies of all ordinances, resolutions and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk and kept available for public inspection.
Sec. 2.09. - Rules and regulations.
The council may by ordinance authorize officers and agencies of the city to promulgate formal rules and regulations within their respective jurisdictions, subject to such restrictions and standards of guidance as the council may prescribe. No such formal rule or regulation shall take effect until it is filed with the city clerk, who shall file and preserve the original copy in his office. Such rules and regulations shall be included as a separate section of the official code and shall be reproduced and distributed in looseleaf form as required by section 2.10.* Amendments of such rules and regulations shall be accomplished only by setting forth complete sections or subsections in their amended form.
Editor's note—
*There is no § 2.10. Apparently a page was lost from the bill which was introduced and passed.
ARTICLE III. - ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL

Sec. 3.01. - Organization.
The city government shall be organized into a department of general government, and such other departments as may be provided by ordinance. The council by such ordinances may establish, abolish, merge, or consolidate offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, may provide that the same person shall fill any number of offices and positions of employment, and may transfer or change the functions and duties of offices, positions of employment, departments, and agencies of the city, subject to the following exceptions:
(a)
The number of members and authority of the council, as provided in this Act, shall not be changed;
(b)
All officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Act, shall be appointed and removed by and shall be under the direction and control of the mayor and council; and
(c)
The office of mayor shall not be abolished nor shall his powers, as provided in this Act, be reduced.
Sec. 3.02. - Administrative duties of mayor.
The mayor shall be the executive head of the city government, responsible for the efficient and orderly administration of the city's affairs. He shall be responsible for the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, ordinances and franchises in the city, and the city attorney shall take such legal actions as the mayor may direct for such persons. He shall have such authority to appoint, promote, demote, transfer, suspend and remove all officers and employees and to direct and control their work, as provided by the council. He shall submit to the council annual budgets, reports, and such other information as he may deem necessary or the council may require. He shall have authority to make allotments of funds within the limits of appropriations and no expenditure shall be made without his approval. If no other employee is designated as purchasing agent, he shall act as purchasing agent for the city. He may conduct inquiries and investigations into the conduct of the city's affairs and shall have such other powers and duties as may be provided by ordinances not inconsistent with this Act.
Sec. 3.03. - City attorney.
The council may appoint a city attorney, together with such assistant city attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance. The city attorney shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation in which the city is a part, shall be the prosecuting officer in the city court, shall attend all meetings of the council, shall advise the council, mayor and other officers and employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, shall approve as to form and legality all contracts, deeds, bonds, ordinances, resolutions, and motions prescribed by the council or mayor.
Sec. 3.04. - City police court.
A city police court, presided over by a city judge on a full- or part-time basis as may be prescribed by ordinance, is hereby established, which shall have jurisdiction over violations, ordinances of this city and violations of state law occurring in said city. The city police court shall have the power to enforce its judgements by the imposition of such penalties as may be provided by law; to punish for contempts of said court; to punish witnesses and defendants for nonattendance in said court; to punish any person who may counsel, advise, aid, encourage or persuade another, whose testimony is desired or material in any proceeding before the court, to go or move beyond the reach of the process of said court; and to try offenses against the criminal laws of the state and ordinances of this city. Said court shall be held at such intervals as the mayor and council shall designate, or as the judge thereof may designate in order to insure orderly disposition of the matters brought before it.
The judge of Municipal Court shall have the power and authority to impose upon the violator of any law or ordinance of said City, for such violation thereof, the following punishments: a fine not to exceed One Thousand and No/100's ($1,000.00) Dollars or imprisonment in the common jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or both, and as an alternative to a fine or imprisonment, a sentence of community service for a period not exceeding six (6) months. The judge of Municipal Court shall have the authority to punish those in its presence for contempt, provided that such a punishment shall not exceed One Thousand and No/100's ($1,000.00) Dollars or imprisonment in the common jail for a period of twenty (20) days.
(Ord. of 6-21-2001, § 1)
Said police court judge shall be to all intents and purposes a justice of the peace so far as to enable him to issue warrants for offenses committed within the corporate limits of said city, which warrants may be executed by any member of the police force of said city; to commit the offenders to the common jail, or admit them to bail in all bailable cases, for their appearance at the next term or session of a court of competent jurisdiction to be held in and for said county.
Appeal from the city police court shall be to the judicial circuit court.
The city attorney or assistant city attorney shall be the prosecuting officer of the court. The city police court judge shall be an attorney at law.
(1978 Ga. Laws, p. 4079, § 1)
Sec. 3.05. - City police judge and city police court clerk.
The council shall appoint and fix the salary of the city police judge for terms of one year, and such salary shall not be changed during a term of office. The council may impeach and remove the city police judge for neglect or refusal to enforce the laws of the state and ordinances of the city, or for other misconduct in office or neglect of duty, but any person so removed may appeal to the circuit court and thence to the supreme court of the state. The council shall fill a vacancy in this office by appointment for the unexpired term. The city police judge shall excuse himself from a case in which: (a) he is interested, (b) for any reason he believes that he will be prejudiced, and such a case, as well as cases during the absence or disability of the city police judge, shall be heard and decided by an acting city police judge, appointed by the mayor. The mayor may remove the acting city police judge at any time without cause. The compensation of an acting city police judge shall be fixed by ordinance. The council may authorize a city court clerk, and other personnel, to assist and to be appointed and removed by the city police judge, to perform such duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by the city police judge.
Sec. 3.06. - Other officers and employees.
The council, by ordinance, may establish officers and positions of employment and may abolish, combine or modify them. The powers and duties of such offices and positions of employment may be defined by ordinance, and if not defined by ordinance shall be defined in formal rules and regulations issued by the mayor as provided in section 2.12* of this Act, but in any event, the mayor may require officers and employees of the city, except those appointed by and accountable to the council, to perform such additional duties as may be considered necessary by him for the proper and efficient conduct of the city's affairs. Public utilities owned or operated by the city may be under the supervision of the mayor and employees appointed by him or may be under boards or commissions appointed by and answerable to the council, as provided by ordinance. The salaries of all employees of the city shall be fixed by ordinance under a pay plan applying uniformly to all employees having similar responsibilities in doing like work.
Editor's note—
*There is no § 2.12. Apparently a page was lost from the bill which was introduced and passed.
Sec. 3.07. - Appointment, suspension and removal of employees.
All employees of the city, except as otherwise provided in this Act, shall be appointed, promoted, demoted, transferred, suspended and removed by the council. During a suspension, an employee's salary may be reduced or eliminated, as determined by the council. Procedure for suspending or removing one from office shall be set by ordinance.
Sec. 3.08. - Oath of office.
Before a person takes any office in the city government, he shall take, subscribe to, and file with the city clerk the following oath or affirmation:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution and will obey the laws of the United States and of the State of Georgia that I will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the City of Bloomingdale, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ____________."
Sec. 3.09. - Official bond.
The mayor and every officer, agent, and employee of the city having duties embracing the receipt, disbursement, custody, or handling of money, and other officers and employees as may be required by ordinance, shall give a fidelity bond or faithful performance bond, as provided by ordinance, with some surety company authorized to do business in the State of Georgia as surety, in such amount as shall be prescribed by ordinance. All such bonds and sureties thereto shall be subject to approval by the council. The cost of such bond shall be paid by the city. All such bonds shall be kept in the custody of the city clerk, except that the city clerk's bond shall be in the custody of the mayor.
Sec. 3.10. - Officers and employees not to profit from connections with city.
No officer or employee of the city shall profit personally, directly or indirectly, from any contract, purchase, sale or service, between the city government and any person or company, nor shall any officer or employee accept any free or preferred service, benefits of concessions from any person or company, except that free transportation may be provided to policemen and firemen on official duty.
ARTICLE IV. - FISCAL ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 4.01. - Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the succeeding year, but another fiscal year may be fixed by ordinance for the entire city government or for any utility.
Sec. 4.02. - Action by council on budget.
Before the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the council shall adopt an appropriation ordinance, based on a budget with such modifications as the council considers necessary or desirable. Appropriations need not be in more detail than a lump sum for each department and agency. The council shall not make any appropriations in excess of estimated revenue, except to provide for an actual emergency threatening the health, property or lives of the inhabitants of the city; providing the council unanimously agrees there is such an emergency. If emergency conditions prevent the adoption of an appropriation ordinance before the beginning of the new fiscal year, the appropriations for the last fiscal year shall become the appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided in this section. Amendments may be made to the original appropriation ordinance at any time during the current fiscal year. Any portion of an annual appropriation remaining unexpended and unencumbered at the close of a fiscal year shall lapse and be credited to the general fund, except that any balance remaining in any other fund at the end of a fiscal year may remain to the credit of that fund and be subject to further appropriation. Any other budget procedures deemed appropriate may be adopted by ordinance.
Sec. 4.03. - City purchasing.
All contracts and purchases, except those that may be reserved to the council by ordinance, shall be made by the city purchasing agent, who shall be the mayor or an employee appointed by him.
Sec. 4.04. - Sale of city property.
The selling of city property shall be regulated by city ordinance.
Sec. 4.05. - Annual audit.
The council shall employ a certified public accountant to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of the city. The accountant shall file his report with the council, at a time agreed to between him and the council.
Sec. 4.06. - Property taxes.
The council shall provide by ordinance for the return of all taxable property in the city, how said property may be assessed, how the valuation of the property fixed by the taxpayer may be increased or decreased by assessment, and provide penalties for the neglect or refusal to return said property. The council shall set up procedures for property owners to appeal assessments.
Sec. 4.07. - Tax levy.
The council shall make a tax levy, expressed as a fixed rate per one hundred dollars ($100.00), of assessed valuation, and if no tax levy is made within ninety (90) days prior to the tax due date, or within ninety (90) days prior to the date of a second installment[,] if two (2) installments are authorized by ordinance, the property tax rate in effect[,] the last fiscal year shall continue in effect as the tax rate for the new fiscal year.
Sec. 4.08. - Tax due dates and tax bills.
The due dates of property taxes shall be fixed by ordinance and provisions may be made for equal semiannual installments. The city shall send tax bills to taxpayers, showing the assessed valuations, amounts of taxes due, tax due dates, and information as to delinquency dates and penalties. Failure to send tax bills shall not, however, invalidate any tax. Property taxes shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after a due date, at which time a penalty of five (5) per cent may be added and thereafter such taxes shall be subject to interest at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one per cent for each month or fraction thereof until paid. On and after the date when such taxes become delinquent, the tax records of the city shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a court of record.
Sec. 4.09. - Collection of delinquent taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for the collection of delinquent taxes by distress warrants issued by the mayor for the sale of goods and chattels to be executed by any police officer of the city under the laws governing execution of such process from a justice of the peace, or by the county trustee as provided by general law, or by the city attorney acting in accordance with general laws providing for the collection of delinquent city and/or county taxes, or by any two (2) or more of the foregoing methods, and by the use of any available legal processes and remedies. A lien shall exist against all property on which city property taxes are levied as of the assessment date of January first of each year, which shall be superior to all other liens except that it shall have equal dignity with those for federal, state or county taxes.
Sec. 4.10. - Special assessments.
The city may assess fifty (50) per cent of the cost of constructing, reconstructing, widening, or improving any public way, sewers, or other utility mains and appurtenances, against the abutting property owners, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such special assessments shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after their due dates (after the due date of each installment if paid on an installment basis), shall thereupon be subject to a penalty of five (5) per cent, and shall thereafter be subject to interest at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one per cent for each month or fraction thereof until paid. A lien shall exist against the abutting property superior to all other liens, except that it shall be of equal dignity with liens for county and city property taxes, and said lien shall be enforceable by the same procedures and under the same remedies as provided in this article for city property taxes.
Sec. 4.11. - Disbursements by checks.
All disbursements shall be made by checks signed in such manner as provided by ordinance.
Sec. 4.12. - Official depository.
The council shall designate an official depository or depositories for deposit and safekeeping of the funds of the city, and may require such collateral security as it deems necessary.
ARTICLE V. - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 5.01. - Restrictions on actions for damages against city.
No action shall be maintained against the city for damages unless a written statement by the claimant or by his agent, attorney or representative, setting forth the basis for his claim, shall have been filed with the mayor within sixty (60) days after such cause of action shall have occurred, except that when the claimant is an infant or non compos mentis, or an injured person dies within sixty (60) days, the time limit shall be one (1) year. No employee of the city may waive this requirement.
Sec. 5.02. - General laws may be used.
The council in its discretion may elect to use the provisions of any general laws of the state in addition to or instead of the provisions of this Act.
Sec. 5.03. - Penalties.
The violation of any provision of this Act, for which a penalty is not specifically provided herein, is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Sec. 5.04. - Nuisances.
The mayor and council shall have full power and authority to, by proper ordinances, provide for the abatement of nuisances, lewd houses, gambling and gambling places, blind tigers, and disorderly houses, to charge the expense for abating such nuisances or places against the person causing the same, or the owner of the premises, according as one or the other is liable, and to enforce the collection of said expenses by execution issued as execution for taxes.
Sec. 5.05. - Severability.
In the event any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Act shall be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional, such adjudication shall in no manner affect the other sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases of this Act, which shall remain of full force and effect, as if the section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase so declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional were not originally a part hereof. The General Assembly hereby declares that it would have passed the remaining parts of this Act if it had known that such part or parts hereof would be declared or adjudged invalid or unconstitutional.
Sec. 5.06. - Repealer.
All laws and parts of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
Subpart B - RELATED LAWS
FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (1) ---
Editor's note— This Subpart B is a compilation of local legislation enacted by the Georgia General Assembly which was deemed advisable to print. Enacting language has been deleted from each act printed herein. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to state statutes has been used. Additions made for clarity are indicated by brackets.
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL
ARTICLE II. - HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS

FOOTNOTE(S):
--- (2) ---
Editor's note— Printed in this article is 2000 Georgia Laws, page 4515, as adopted by the Georgia General Assembly. Amendments to this act are indicated by parenthetical history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original act.
Sec. 1. - [Definitions; homestead exemption.]
(a)
As used in this Act, the term:
(1)
"Ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes" means all municipal ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes levied by, for, or on behalf of the City of Bloomingdale, including, but not limited to, taxes to pay interest on and to retire municipal bonded indebtedness.
(2)
"Base year" means:
(A)
The 1999 taxable year with respect to an exemption under this Act which is first granted to a person on that person's homestead in the 2001 taxable year; or
(B)
In all other cases, the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the exemption under this Act is first granted to the most recent owner of such homestead.
(3)
"Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-5-40], with the additional qualification that it shall include only the primary residence and not more than five contiguous acres of land immediately surrounding such residence.
(b)
Each resident of the City of Bloomingdale is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all City of Bloomingdale ad valorem taxes for municipal purposes in an amount equal to the amount by which the current year assessed value of that homestead exceeds the base year assessed value of that homestead. This exemption shall not apply to taxes assessed on improvements to the homestead or additional land that is added to the homestead after January 1 of the base year. If any real property is removed from the homestead, the base year assessed value shall be recalculated accordingly. The value of that property in excess of such exempted amount shall remain subject to taxation.
(c)
A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section unless the person or person's agent files an application with the governing authority of the City of Bloomingdale, or the designee thereof, giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the governing authority of the City of Bloomingdale, or the designee thereof, to make a determination as to whether such owner is entitled to such exemption.
(d)
The governing authority of the City of Bloomingdale, or the designee thereof, shall provide application forms for the exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section which shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the owner for the exemption.
(e)
The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1 of the O.C.G.A. [O.C.G.A. § 48-4-50.1] The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the owner occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper application as provided in subsection (c) of this section, it shall not be necessary to make application thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under subsection (b) of this section to notify the governing authority of the City of Bloomingdale, or the designee thereof, in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(f)
The exemption granted by this Act shall not apply to or affect state ad valorem taxes, county ad valorem taxes for county purposes, or school district ad valorem taxes for educational purposes. The homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption applicable to municipal ad valorem taxes.
(g)
The exemption granted by subsection (b) of this section shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2001.
