Chapter 18 - CIVIL EMERGENCIES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.
State Law reference— Authority to adopt temporary or experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-371(a)(19); Georgia Mutual Aid Act, O.C.G.A. § 36-69-1 et seq.; Georgia Emergency Management Act of 1981, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-1 et seq.; Interstate Civil Defense and Disaster Compact, O.C.G.A. § 38-3-70 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 18-1. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Emergency management means the preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency and disaster functions other than those functions for which military force or other state and federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from emergencies or disasters, or the imminent threat thereof, of manmade or natural origin. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, defense from radiological, chemical and other special weapons, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian population, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to total emergency and disaster preparedness for carrying out the foregoing functions.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § I)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 18-2. - Emergency powers.
In the event of manmade or natural disaster, actual enemy attack upon the United States, or any other emergency that may affect the lives and property of the citizens of the county, the chairman of the county commission may declare that a state of emergency exists and thereafter shall have and may exercise for such period as such state of emergency exists or continues, the following emergency powers:
(1)
To enforce all rules, laws and regulations relating to emergency management and to assume direct operational control over all emergency management resources.
(2)
To seize, take for temporary use, or condemn any private property for the protection of the public.
(3)
To sell, lend, give or distribute all or any such property or supplies among the inhabitants of the county; to maintain a strict accounting of property or supplies distributed and for funds received for such property or supplies.
(4)
To perform and exercise such other functions and duties, and take such emergency actions as may be necessary to promote and secure the safety, protection and well-being of the inhabitants of the county.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § IV)
Sec. 18-3. - Volunteers.
All persons, other than officers and employees of the cities, towns and county, performing emergency functions pursuant to this chapter, shall serve with or without compensation. While engaged in such emergency functions, duly assigned volunteers shall have the same immunities as county officers and employees.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § V)
Sec. 18-4. - Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any rule, order or regulation made pursuant to this chapter, shall upon conviction thereof be punished as provided in section 1-11.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § VI)
Secs. 18-5—18-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Sec. 18-36. - Office of the county emergency management director.
There is hereby established the Burke County Emergency Management Office. The county commissioners shall nominate, for appointment by the governor, a director of emergency management for the entire county. When appointed, the emergency management director is charged with the following duties:
(1)
To represent the governing officials of the county on matters pertaining to emergency management.
(2)
To assist county and city officials in organizing county and city departments for emergency operations.
(3)
To develop, in conjunction with city and county departments and agencies, the county plan for emergency functions set forth in section 18-1. Such plan will be in consonance with the state natural disaster operations plan and nuclear emergency operations plan, and shall be submitted to the board of commissioners for approval, and thence to the state emergency management director for approval.
(4)
To maintain the emergency management office and carry out the day-to-day administration of the county emergency management program, including the submission of required reports to the state emergency management agency.
(5)
To submit reports as required by governing officials in keeping with good management practices, e.g. financial, daily activity, etc.
(6)
To procure with the authority of governing officials a facility to be used as the county emergency operations center.
(7)
To coordinate the activities of the county emergency operations center staff during periods of a declared emergency, and under the supervision of county governing officials.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § II)
Sec. 18-37. - County emergency management organization.
(a)
The county emergency management organization shall be established around existing city and county departments and agencies, and the emergency functions listed in section 18-1 are assigned as follows:
EXPAND
Department Emergency Functions
(1) Executive ..... Direction and control
(County and city elected officials) Public information
Supply—Finance
(2) Police .....
(County sheriff's office)
(City police departments) Security
Movement
Search
Communications
Warning
(3) Fire control ..... Fire control
Rescue
Damage assessment
(4) Public works and engineering ..... Utilities and public services restoration
Hazards analysis
(5) Human resources, including: ..... Human needs, including:
a. Department of family and children services Welfare
b. Division of physical health Health control
c. Hospital services Medical and mortuary services
d. Ambulance services Casualty transport
(6) Emergency management ..... Shelter
Radiological defense
Rescue
Assistance in industrial and institutional emergency planning
Evacuation planning
Emergency transportation
  (b)
Heads of departments listed above are responsible for developing the plan for their assigned emergency function. Such plans will be submitted through the emergency management director to the county commission.
(Res. of 3-13-84, § III)
Secs. 18-38, 18-39. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - IMPOSITION OF CURFEWS DURING TIMES OF EMERGENCY OR DISASTER

Sec. 18-40. - Institution of curfew
(a)
Upon the declaration of a state of emergency by the governor, or upon the determination by the county governing authority, or its designee, of the existence of an emergency or disaster, the county governing authority, its designee or the emergency interim successor may adopt a resolution instituting a curfew when it is determined necessary to protect and safeguard the people and property of the county.
(b)
All of the territory of the unincorporated county shall be subject to the terms of the curfew, unless otherwise specified in the resolution.
(c)
The resolution instituting the curfew shall include the dates and hours that the curfew shall be in effect.
(Ord. No. 12-02, § 1, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-41. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Curfew. A "curfew" is a regulation requiring the withdrawal from any person not otherwise exempt from this article from appearing in certain public areas during specified hours.
Exempt individuals. Unless otherwise specified in the resolution implementing the curfew, "exempt individuals" include those individuals engaged in the provision designated, essential services, such as fire, law enforcement, emergency medical services and hospital services, military services, utility emergency repairs. The resolution may, in the discretion of the governing authority, also exempt regular employees of local industries traveling to and from their jobs with appropriate identification, news media employees, building and repair contractors, properly registered according to article IV of this chapter, performing activities related to construction, repair, renovation or improvement of buildings and other structures damaged during the disaster or emergency.
State of emergency. As defined by O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster, emergency, or energy emergency is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
(Ord. No. 12-02, § 1, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-42. - Prohibition.
It shall be prohibited for any person, other than exempt individuals, to appear in public in the territory subject to the curfew, including but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, vacant lots, parks, public buildings or any other public places in all or a delineated part of unincorporated Burke County during the stated hours of the curfew.
(Ord. No. 12-02, § 1, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-43. - Penalties.
Any individual violating this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation, or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both.
(Ord. No. 12-02, § 1, 12-11-2012)
Secs. 18-44—18-69. - Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. - REQUIRING REGISTRATION OF BUILDING AND REPAIR SERVICES DURING A LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY

Sec. 18-70. - Building contractor registration required.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall engage in, undertake or carry on any business in whole or in part within the unincorporated areas of Burke County, consisting of or relating to building, constructing, repairing, renovating or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto without having registered the name of the business with the governing authority of the county and having paid fees as provided by this article.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-71. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Building contractor. As used in this article the word or term "building contractor" shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity engaging in, undertaking or carrying on any business consisting of or relating to building construction, repair renovation or making improvements to real property including dwellings, homes, buildings, structures, or fixtures attached thereto.
Doing business. Any building contractor shall be deemed to be "doing business" subject to the requirements of this article if:
(1)
He has or operates an office, agency, project site or place of business located in the unincorporated areas of the county, whether permanently, temporarily, periodically, or otherwise, that provides the following activities in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto; or
(2)
He performs the following activities or services in the unincorporated areas of the county expressly including but not limited to the construction, renovation or repair of dwellings or buildings or the making of the improvements to real property or any fixtures attached thereto regardless of the location of the principle office.
State of emergency. The term "state of emergency" is defined, pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 38-3-3(5), as a condition declared by the governor when, in his judgment, the threat or actual occurrence of a disaster or is of sufficient severity and magnitude as to warrant extraordinary efforts in preventing or alleviating the damage, loss, hardship or suffering threatened or caused thereby.
Subsequent recovery period. The term "subsequent recovery period" is defined as that period during which the disaster continues to cause disruptions in the disaster area, but shall not exceed three months after the emergency declaration has been terminated by the governor.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-72. - Registration; certification.
All building contractors doing business or proposing to do business in the unincorporated areas of Burke County during a state of emergency or locally declared emergency or the subsequent recovery period shall register and file applications with the clerk of the governing authority of the county or such other person designated by the governing authority at the county courthouse or such other place or places designated by the county. The building contractor shall, under oath, provide the county governing authority with a statement describing the general nature of the business to be conducted and give true and correct information as may be called for on the registration form, application or certificate provided by the county.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-73. - Registration fees.
Building contractor registration fees are hereby fixed under the terms and conditions of this article of $50.00 per annum. Registration fees shall be paid in full at the time of issuance of the registration certification.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-74. - Penalties.
Any building contractor required by this article to pay a registration fee who engages in business without first registering and receiving a registration certification from the county as required shall be in violation of this article. Violation of this article, upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation and/or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days. Each day a building contractor does business in the unincorporated areas of the county without complying with this article shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-75. - Transferability.
Each certification issued under this article is granted to, and shall be accepted by, the building contractor under the condition that the same is not transferable and after issuance no such certification shall be transferred by the county or the building contractor to another individual or entity.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-76. - Display of registration certification.
Each certification issued under this article shall be posted conspicuously by the building contractor in the place of business of the building contractor or shall be carried on his person or vehicle used in such business. Such certification shall be exhibited to any authorized enforcement officer when so requested.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-77. - Revocation; suspension.
Each certification granted under this article is a mere permit to engage in the business only so long as said business is conducted in a lawful manner. The county governing authority hereby reserves the right to revoke or suspend any certification granted hereunder, if the building contractor, or the building contractor's agent or employee acting within the scope of his employment, violates this article or any other county, state or federal law. If after issuance of a certification, the county desires to revoke such certification, written notice thereof shall be given to the building contractor, which notice shall specify the violation with which the building contractor is charged and a date, time and place at which a hearing shall be held with regard to the violation. The building contractor shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and shall have the right to introduce and submit evidence in opposition to such revocation.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
Sec. 18-78. - Expiration.
This article and any certification issued pursuant to it shall be operative only during the period of a declared state of emergency or declared local emergency and any subsequent recovery periods.
(Ord. No. 12-05, 12-11-2012)
