ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 106-1. - Swinging into trains.
It shall be unlawful to swing onto trains for the purpose of securing a free ride thereon.
(Code 1977, § 14-10006; Ord. No. 2017-11(17-O-1130), § 1, 3-29-17 )
Sec. 106-2. - Solicitation of defense of prisoners or legal business.
It shall be unlawful for any person to idle and loiter around the station house, municipal judge's courtroom or the entrance thereto for the purpose of soliciting the defense of prisoners in the municipal court or in any way soliciting legal practice from these prisoners, in person or as agent for another, whereby money is attempted to be secured or is secured from these prisoners. However, this shall not prohibit prisoners from summoning attorneys or from conferring with attorneys who have been employed by them or by their relatives for them, and the turnkey and other officers shall promptly telephone for attorneys desired by these prisoners. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the solicitation of legal business or representation either by these persons or their agents or employees in the manner stated in this section.
(Code 1977, § 3-1085)
Sec. 106-3. - Gathering near detention facility, jail or courthouse; furnishing items to incarcerated persons.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person to gather in or about the station house, jail, detention facility, courthouse or other city-owned property in violation of the rules and policies of the facility or for the purpose of violating the law.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for anyone other than persons duly authorized by the office of corrections to provide, transmit, deliver, give or furnish to anyone held or incarcerated as a defendant, prisoner, arrested person or one being interviewed in connection with a violation of the law at any city jail or detention facility any item, whatsoever, without first obtaining the approval of the person in charge at such facility.
(Code 1977, § 3-1084(c), (d))
Sec. 106-4. - Impersonating or wearing uniform of police officer.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, not a police officer in the city, to act as a police officer or represent such person as a police officer.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a police officer, without authority, to wear the uniform or any distinctive part thereof or anything similar to a distinctive part thereof which has been designed and approved by the police chief or the chief's designee as a uniform for police officers of the City of Atlanta.
(Code 1977, § 11-2051)
State Law reference— Impersonating a public officer or employee, O.C.G.A. § 16-10-23.
Sec. 106-5. - Furnishing identification containing reference to age.
It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish to any other person any identification material which contains or makes reference to age, with the intent that such material be used by any person for the purpose of falsely representing the age of such person, so as to violate or foster the violation of an ordinance of the city.
(Code 1977, § 17-11001)
State Law reference— False identification documents, O.C.G.A. § 16-9-4.
Sec. 106-6. - Registering under assumed name.
No person shall register at any hotel, motel or other place of lodging requiring registration in the city under an assumed name, or any name other than that by which such person is commonly known.
(Code 1977, § 17-11002)
Sec. 106-7. - Passenger stations.
Any person entering any railroad, bus or rapid rail passenger station and violating its rules or obstructing the business of the authorities in charge thereof may be ordered out by the police officer in charge, and upon refusal to leave shall be arrested and tried for a violation of this section; however, those rules shall be reasonable and approved by the council.
(Code 1977, § 17-3005)
State Law reference— Criminal trespass, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-21.
Sec. 106-8. - Smoking and drinking prohibited on MARTA buses, trains, rail cars.
It shall be unlawful for occupants on Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority (MARTA) buses, trains or rail cars to smoke tobacco or consume alcoholic beverages while such buses, trains or rail cars are transporting passengers within the corporate limits of the city. Charter bus service is excluded from these restrictions.
(Code 1977, § 17-11003)
Cross reference— Indoor air, § 86-31 et seq.
Sec. 106-9. - Smoking in certain areas within city buildings and facilities.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Smoke and smoking mean and include the carrying or possession of any form of burning tobacco.
(b)
Designation of smoking areas. All city-owned, city-operated or city-leased office space, buildings and facilities of the city shall be designated either smoking or nonsmoking in accordance with the following provisions:
(1)
The mayor or the mayor's designee shall place signs in all open office areas, employee work areas, restrooms, reception areas, lobbies, conference rooms, elevators, stairwells and any indoor area accessible to the general public designating whether smoking is or is not permitted.
(2)
No open office area, employee work area, restroom (unless designated as a smoking area), reception area, lobby, conference room, elevator, stairwell or other indoor area accessible to the general public shall be designated as a smoking area.
(3)
Any area outlined in subsection (b)(1) or (2) of this section not explicitly designated and signed in accordance with this section shall be a nonsmoking area.
(4)
Council chambers and committee rooms shall be designated nonsmoking areas.
(5)
Private offices, separated entirely from other space by floor-to-ceiling walls and standard doors, may be designated smoking areas.
(6)
Certain sections of cafeterias may be designated smoking areas if:
a.
No more than 30 percent of cafeteria seats are within the smoking area.
b.
The smoking area is separated by at least ten feet from the nearest nonsmoking seat.
Smoking is not permitted in the cafeteria line.
(7)
Certain fully enclosed rooms other than private offices may be designated smoking lounges if such rooms are furnished with smokeless ashtrays or other devices which effectively prevent tobacco smoke from entering the general ventilation system, and if no other provision of this section is violated.
(8)
All outdoor areas shall be designated smoking areas unless safety regulations require otherwise.
(c)
Violation. It shall be a violation of this section to smoke in any area designated a nonsmoking area under the provisions of this section.
(d)
Priority. The public health consideration for breathing smoke-free air shall take priority in situations of confusion or ambiguity.
(e)
Application. The provisions of this section shall only apply to those areas of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International that are utilized as city offices. All other areas of the airport shall comply with the smoking policy as outlined in section 22-68.
(Code 1977, § 17-11007; Ord. No. 2004-51, §§ 1, 2, 8-20-04)
Cross reference— Smoking at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International, § 22-68; indoor air, § 86-31 et seq.
Sec. 106-10. - Distribution of free tobacco products in public places prohibited.
(a)
Generally. In order to avoid obstruction and congestion of public ways and places, to protect pedestrians from annoyance and invasion of privacy, to avoid litter and to avoid facilitating the availability of cigarettes or other tobacco or smoking products to minors, no person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing cigarettes or other tobacco or smoking products for commercial purposes, or any agent or employee of any such person, shall, in the course of such business, distribute any cigarettes or other tobacco or smoking products free to any person on any public street or sidewalk, or in any park or playground, or any other public ground, or in areas open to the public in any publicly-owned or -operated building.
(b)
Violation. Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (a) of this section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $20.00 nor more than $50.00 for each violation. Every hour or part thereof in which a person engages in such conduct shall constitute a single and separate violation.
(Code 1977, § 17-11008)
Sec. 106-11. - Use of drinking water reservoir prohibited.
(a)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person not employed by, or authorized to act on behalf of, the city, to use any drinking water reservoir or water treatment structure operated or maintained by the city for swimming, bathing or otherwise immersing a person or such person's clothing.
(b)
Violation. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment in the city jail or stockade for not more than six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Code 1977, § 17-11011)
Sec. 106-12. - Urban camping and improper use of public places.
(a)
Definitions . The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section 106-12, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
" Bridge " means a structure, including the approaches thereto, erected in order to afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other right-of-way; or to afford passage under or over existing public roads, railroads, or other rights-of-way. As used in this section the definition of "Bridge" shall include a controlled access highway overpass as defined herein.
" Camp " or " camping " means the use of a street, sidewalk, other right-of-way, and/or any area underneath a bridge, within the City of Atlanta for living accommodation purposes such as sleeping activities, or making preparations to sleep (including the laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal belongings, or making a fire, or carrying on cooking activities, or using a tent or other structure for habitation. These activities constitute camping if, in light of all the circumstances, it reasonably appears that in conducting one or more of these activities, the participant is in fact using the area as a living accommodation, regardless of the intent of the participant or the nature of any other activities in which s/he may also be engaging. For purposes of this section 106-12(a), the terms "camp" and "camping" do not include activity that occurs solely within city-owned parks.
" City " means the City of Atlanta.
" Controlled access highway overpass " means a crossing of two controlled access highways or of a controlled access highway and other public road, pedestrian path, railroad or public right-of-way at different levels where clearance to traffic on the lower level is obtained by elevating the higher level.
" Interference (or " interfere ") with ingress and egress" means standing, sitting, lying down, using personal property, or performing any other activity on public property and/or in a park, where such activity: a) materially interferes with the ingress into and egress from buildings, driveways, streets, alleys, or any other real property that has a limited number of entrances/exits, regardless of whether the property is owned by the city, a private owner or another public entity; b) reasonably appears, in light of all of the circumstances, to have the purpose of blocking ingress and egress; and c) occurs without the express written permission of the owner of the property at issue. Where written permission has been granted, the individuals interfering with ingress and egress must have possession of the permission at the time of the activity in question.
" Park " or " parks " means any city-owned park.
" Public property " means any street, sidewalk, and/or other right-of-way, within the City of Atlanta.
" Storing (or " store ") personal property" means leaving one's personal effects unattended on public property, in any area underneath a bridge, and/or in a park, such as but not limited to clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping bags, luggage, knapsacks, or backpacks. This term does not include parking a bicycle or other mode of transportation.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any person to store personal property.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with ingress and egress.
(e)
No person may be arrested for violating this code section until s/he has received an oral or written warning from the Atlanta Police Department to cease the prohibited conduct. If the violator fails to comply with the warning issued, s/he may be arrested for violation of this section.
(f)
Where personal property is stored in violation of subsection (c) above, the Atlanta Police Department may deem the property to be abandoned and may confiscate it. No warning is required prior to the confiscation. The department shall retain the property in a manner consistent with the handling of other confiscated property.
(g)
The prohibitions set forth in subsections (b) and (c) above shall not apply during a permitted outdoor event (as defined in City Code of Ordinances Chapter 142) on property where the outdoor event is located, as set forth in a city-issued outdoor event permit, unless the permit explicitly prohibits the activity.
(h)
The prohibitions set forth in subsections (c) and (d) above shall not apply to activity permitted pursuant to Article III of City Code of Ordinances Chapter 138.
(i)
The prohibitions set forth in this section 106-12 shall not apply to city, state, or county officials or employees acting in their official capacity, performing the activities as part of their official city duties.
(j)
The prohibitions set forth in this section 106-12 shall not apply to city, state, or county contractors or subcontractors where said activities are associated and performed in conjunction with the scope of work set forth in the city contract.
(Ord. No. 1996-82, §§ 1—6, 11-26-96; Ord. No. 1998-68, § 1, 10-13-98; Ord. No. 2012-10(12-O-0360), § 1, 3-28-12; Ord. No. 2017-94(17-O-1837), § 1, 12-13-17 )
Sec. 106-13. - Reserved.
Sec. 106-14. - Security fencing of construction cranes.
(a)
In order to guard against access to construction cranes by unauthorized persons, all fixed or tower cranes shall be enclosed by security chain link fencing which shall be at least eight feet in height, topped with barbed wire and containing a locked gate at all points of access to the crane. The specifications for such security fencing shall be a required submittal in the building permit process and shall be subject to the approval of the director of the bureau of buildings. For existing construction projects, the contractors shall have 60 days to comply with the fencing requirement.
(b)
Violation of this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-8 of the City Code.
(Ord. No. 2007-72(07-O-2308), § 1, 11-27-07)
Secs. 106-15—106-50. - Reserved.
