ARTICLE VI. - BUNGEE JUMPING
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 14-171. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Bungee jumping means a free fall by a person from a height and the descent is limited by attachment to the bungee cord.
(Code 1977, § 14-3191)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Sec. 14-172. - Investigation by police department.
The police chief shall designate one or more officers to obtain all of the information indicated in this article and to make a report on any matter pertinent to whether or not a license should be granted or revoked at any time. All departments of the city shall cooperate with these officers. The officers shall have admittance at all times to the bungee jumping operation before and after a license may be issued and shall report all violations of this article in writing to the police chief.
(Code 1977, § 14-3199)
Secs. 14-173—14-185. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSE

Sec. 14-186. - Required.
No bungee jumping operation shall be maintained without a license. Application for a license to conduct a bungee jumping operation shall be filed on forms provided by the police chief at least 30 days before the time of granting a license.
(Code 1977, § 14-3192)
Sec. 14-187. - Permits and insurance required.
Prior to making application for a license under this division, the applicant must first obtain a permit from the state, a special use permit from the city and an insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000.00. The permit from the state, the special use permit and the insurance policy shall be attached to the application.
(Code 1977, § 14-3193)
Sec. 14-188. - Contents and filing of application.
Every applicant for license under this division shall file written application with the department of police giving the full names and addresses of all interested parties. If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain the names and addresses of all officers, as well as the state where organized, besides designation of a manager. The application shall further state the exact address where the operation is to be conducted; the number of sites; the age of the applicant or manager if a corporation; whether a citizen of the United States; when, where and how long the applicant previously operated a bungee jumping operation; and the name and address of the owner of the property where the bungee jumping operation is to be opened. The application must be signed by the applicant or if a corporation by the manager.
(Code 1977, § 14-3194)
Sec. 14-189. - Review.
The police chief shall transmit the application for a license under this division to the license review board. All such applications for licenses shall be acted upon by the license review board after a public hearing and the license review board shall report its recommendations to the mayor. The mayor, upon receiving the recommendation of the license review board, may, within 60 calendar days of receipt of said recommendation, deny or grant an application for a new license. In addition, within said 60-day period, if the mayor determines there is a need to correct a clear error or prevent a manifest injustice, the mayor may remand the application or matter back to the license review board for further hearing. If the mayor fails to take action within the 60-day period, the recommendation of the license review board shall become the final decision of the mayor.
(Code 1977, § 14-3195; Ord. No. 2008-79(08-O-1677), § 4, 11-6-08)
Sec. 14-190. - Fee.
The fee for a license to conduct a bungee jumping operation shall be $1,000.00.
(Code 1977, § 14-3200)
Sec. 14-191. - Term, transfer.
All bungee jumping licenses shall expire annually at the time fixed by the mayor or the mayor's designee and shall be renewed not later than January 1 of each year. No transfer of a license shall be made except with the consent of the mayor endorsed thereon.
(Code 1977, § 14-3196)
Sec. 14-192. - Effect of state revocation of permit.
Whenever the state shall revoke any permit for the operation of bungee jumping, the city license to conduct a bungee jumping operation shall be automatically revoked without any action by the license review board or any city officer.
(Code 1977, § 14-3197)
Sec. 14-193. - Grounds for denial, revocation of license.
(a)
Upon a finding of due cause, as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the mayor shall have the authority to deny an application for a new permit under this division or for transfer of location or transfer of ownership and to revoke, suspend or refuse to renew any license which has been issued or which may be issued by the city to the licensee under this division.
(b)
Due cause for the denial of applications for new licenses or for transfer of location or transfer of ownership or for revocation, suspension or refusal to renew a license shall include but shall not be limited to the following:
(1)
Failure to obtain a permit from the state or revocation of a permit from the state;
(2)
Failure to obtain a special use permit from the city or revocation of a special use permit from the city;
(3)
Failure to provide and maintain a public liability insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000.00;
(4)
Conviction of a felony;
(5)
Providing any false or misleading information or making any material omission on any application for a license;
(6)
Failure to comply with all regulations promulgated by the state governing the operation of bungee jumping; and
(7)
Failure to comply with all sections of this article or any other city laws applicable to this article.
(c)
No application for a new license or for transfer of location or transfer of ownership shall be denied and no license which has been issued shall be revoked, suspended or refused renewal except upon a finding of due cause as provided in subsection (b) of this section and after a hearing and upon a ten-day written notice to the licensee. The notice shall state the place, date, time and purpose of such hearing and shall set forth the charge upon which the hearing shall be held.
(d)
The license review board shall conduct the hearing and report its conclusions and recommendations to the mayor. The mayor, upon receiving the conclusions and recommendations of the board, may deny an application for a new license or for transfer of location or transfer of ownership and may revoke, suspend or refuse to renew any license.
(e)
For due cause for a violation of this article which results in an emergency situation in which continued operation of the bungee jumping operation by the licensee endangers the health, welfare or safety of the public, the mayor or the mayor's designee may suspend any license under this article. Any such suspension may be made effective immediately and shall remain in force until the next regular or called meeting of the license review board.
(Code 1977, § 14-3198)
Secs. 14-194—14-215. - Reserved.
