ARTICLE V. - RESERVE POLICE PROGRAM

Sec. 98-206. - Created; composition.
A reserve police program (hereinafter referred to as the "program") is hereby created and established as an organization which shall be composed of retired Atlanta police officers (hereinafter "officers") who shall be appointed and sworn in as members thereof. To be eligible for membership, a retired officer must be Georgia POST certified and must have been in good standing with the city and police department when he or she retired from full-time city employment. Members shall be volunteer workers only and as volunteers, the officers serve as a supplementary force, providing assistance to full-time police officers in a variety of activities in accordance with the procedures outlined herein.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 2, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-207. - Authority of chief of police over program.
The chief of the Atlanta Police Department, subject to the restrictions and limitations contained in this article, shall have complete authority and control over the reserve police program members, and may delegate the exercise thereof, in whole or in part, to any of his or her subordinates. The chief of police shall establish by order the rules and regulations governing this program and all its members. The chief of police shall be responsible for all assignments to be carried out hereunder.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 3, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-208. - Training.
(a)
In order to provide training for the members of the reserve police program, the chief of police is hereby authorized to conduct training that will achieve and maintain the requirements of the Georgia Peace Officer's Standards and Training (P.O.S.T.) certification for the officers.
(b)
The chief of police shall have authority to require each member of the reserve program to satisfactorily complete all requirements of the training.
(c)
Each reserve officer must satisfactorily perform volunteer service to the city each year. The minimum number of hours is to be determined by the chief of police.
(d)
Each reserve officer will be subject to all police department rules and regulations and will be expected to maintain the same code of personal and professional conduct as required from full-time city police officers.
(e)
Failure of a reserve officer to satisfactorily complete all requirements of P.O.S.T. shall result in suspension from the program.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 4, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-209. - Uniform and equipment regulations.
(a)
Each officer, upon his or her retirement from full-time employment with the city police department, shall be permitted to retain city equipment, as determined by the chief. This equipment includes, but is not limited to, uniforms, firearms, badges and handcuffs.
(b)
The clothing and equipment to be used by reserve police officers shall be determined by the chief of police and may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1)
A uniform which will be identical to that of the regular city police officer except for modifications, to be determined by the chief of police;
(2)
A firearm;
(3)
Handcuffs; and
(4)
An identification card which identifies the officer as a member of the Atlanta Reserve Police Program.
(c)
Each officer, while representing himself or herself as an Atlanta Reserve Police Officer shall comply with the dress code of the department and other regulations governing the uniform and equipment.
(d)
Uniforms and equipment shall remain the property of the city and shall be subject to recall by the chief of police.
(e)
The chief of police is hereby authorized to instruct employees benefits to withhold pension benefits of any retired officer who fails to return all city-owned equipment to the police department, after being ordered by the chief of police to do so. All pension benefits withheld will be forwarded to the retired officer when he or she has complied with the chief's order.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 5, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-210. - Workers' compensation.
Each officer of the unit while working for the city shall be deemed a volunteer and shall not be afforded workers' compensation benefits. Reserve officers health, dental, and pension benefits will not be affected by participation in the program.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 6, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-211. - Arrests.
A reserve officer shall have the general powers of arrest afforded regular officers provided that he or she satisfactorily completed the training required by P.O.S.T. and the Atlanta Police Department.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 7, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-212. - Application for a work permit required.
(a)
No officer of the reserve police program shall engage in any police work, whether as a volunteer or for pay, within the limits of the city, either in or out of uniform, until he or she has filed an application for a work permit with the chief of the Atlanta Police Department and said application has been approved.
(b)
The application form for a permit to engage in any police work by the reserve program member shall be furnished by the department and shall include the following information:
(1)
Name of location.
(2)
Name of employer.
(3)
Name of owner.
(4)
Physical location of work.
(5)
Nature of work.
(6)
Amount of pay.
(c)
Failure by a reserve police program member to first obtain an approved work permit before engaging in a police related job shall be subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal from the reserve program.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 8, 3-24-94)
Sec. 98-213. - False impersonation.
It shall be a violation, punishable by law or by fine not to exceed $1,000.00, for any person not a member of the reserve police program:
(1)
To wear, display or carry, as the case may be, any item issued the city to a reserve officer in order to perform law enforcement duties; or
(2)
To represent, identify or hold himself or herself out, in any manner whatsoever, to be a member of the reserve police program. The chief may terminate any reserve officer, with or without cause, without a hearing. A reserve officer may resign at any time by notification to the chief.
(Ord. No. 1994-71, § 9, 3-24-94)
