APPENDIX F - GAS CODE AMENDMENTS[1]
SECTION 1: That Chapter I, Administration of the Georgia State Gas Code, 1991 Edition, be deleted in its entirety and that the following new Chapter I, Administration, be adopted in lieu thereof:
CHAPTER I. - ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 101. - TITLE AND SCOPE

101.1— - TITLE
This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "Gas Code of the City of Atlanta, Georgia 1992," hereinafter referred to as "this Code."
101.2— - SCOPE
This Code provides for matters concerning, affecting, or relating to the installation, erection, alteration, repair and use and maintenance of gas piping and appliances in the City of Atlanta. These requirements apply to gas piping systems extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances. They are intended to cover the design, fabrication, installation, tests and operation of such systems for fuel gases such as natural gas, manufactured gas, undiluted liquefied petroleum gases in vapor phase. These requirements are not intended to cover systems or portions of systems for specific manufacturing, production, processing and power generating applications, such as large and high pressure boilers, melting and treating furnaces, production ovens, etc. or for public utility piping in gas distribution and transmission systems, in gas compressing stations and in gas processing plants, except insofar as such matters are otherwise provided as follows:
(a)
BUILDING CODE
For regulations governing the construction, maintenance, alterations, repair, demolition or removal of structures and buildings, see Building Code, Bureau of Buildings, City of Atlanta.
(b)
ELECTRICAL CODE
For regulations governing electrical installations, see the Electrical Code, Bureau of Buildings, Electrical Division, City of Atlanta.
(c)
ELEVATOR CODE
For regulations governing elevator installations, see the Elevator Ordinance, Bureau of Buildings, Electrical Division, City of Atlanta.
(d)
COMMERCIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
For regulations governing maintenance of existing buildings, see Housing Code, Bureau of Buildings, Housing Code Division, and Commercial, Institutional and Industrial Building Maintenance Code, Bureau of Buildings, Building Division.
(e)
PLUMBING CODE
For regulations governing plumbing installations, see the Plumbing Code, Bureau of Buildings, Plumbing Division.
(f)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
For regulations governing fire prevention, see the Fire Prevention Code, City of Atlanta.
(g)
ZONING ORDINANCE
For regulations governing zoning, see the Zoning Ordinance, City of Atlanta.
(h)
GEORGIA FIRE SAFETY LAW
For regulations governing means of egress and safety to life requirements, see also Georgia Fire Safety Law and the Rules of the Safety Fire Commissioner pertaining thereto.
(i)
AIR POLLUTION
For regulations governing the control of air pollution and air contamination, see regulations promulgated by Georgia Environmental Protection Division and appropriate Federal regulations.
(j)
HEATING, VENTILATING, AIR CONDITIONING CODE (HVAC)
For regulations governing heating, ventilating, air conditioning code, see the Heating, Ventilating, Air Conditioning Code, City of Atlanta.
(k)
GEORGIA STATE ENERGY CODE
(l)
NFPA 54 NATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE, 1988
(m)
COUNCIL OF AMERICAN BUILDING OFFICIALS—ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLING CODE
Provided, however, the regulations concerning the installation of Mechanical Part IV (Chapters 10—19) and Plumbing Part V (Chapters 20—25) of the One and Two Family Dwelling Code are hereby deleted.
Where any requirement of this Code is less restrictive than those above listed, then such code or rules shall take precedence over the requirements of this Code.
101.3— - PURPOSE
The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards and regulations to safeguard life, limb, health, property, and public welfare of the citizens of the City of Atlanta, Georgia.
101.4— - ALL NEW WORK TO CONFORM
(a)
No equipment, appliance or system, as hereinafter specified in this Code, shall be installed, constructed, erected, altered or repaired, except in conformity with the provisions of this Code.
(b)
No equipment, appliance or system, as hereinafter specified in this Code, shall be altered in any manner that would be in violation of the provisions of this Code or of any authorized rules or approval of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings made and issued thereunder.
(c)
The provisions of this Code shall not apply to the installation, alteration or repair of plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas or electrical services up to and including the meters where such work is performed by or is an integral part of the system owned or operated by a public service corporation serving the City of Atlanta.
(d)
The provisions of this Code shall not apply to the installation, alteration or repair of plumbing, air conditioning and heating, gas, or electrical systems, where such work is an integral part of the system owned or operated in rendering its duly authorized service as such, by a railroad company, pipeline company, mining company, public utility in the exercise of its normal functions as a public utility, or where such work is an integral part of any irrigation system on farms, ranches, or other open, unpopulated areas where such work will not be located within 300 feet of any dwelling or any building devoted to animal husbandry.
101.5— - USE AND MAINTENANCE
(a)
It shall be unlawful to maintain, use, repair, or alter any equipment, appliance or system that has been or will be installed, constructed or erected after the adoption of this Code, that is in violation or will violate the provisions as hereinafter specified.
(b)
No equipment, appliance or system, as hereinafter specified in this Code, shall be used unless it is in a safe condition, and listed with an approved testing agency. (See Section 402.1)
101.6— - RESERVED
101.7— - APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUILDINGS
(a)
Not withstanding any provision in this code to the contrary, consumers equipment, appliances or piping installed prior to the adoption of this Code, may have their existing use maintained if it will not in any way endanger life or property.
(b)
When deemed necessary by the Director, he shall make an inspection of materials or assemblies at the point of manufacture or fabrication. He shall make a record of every such examination and inspection and of all violations of this Code.
(c)
The Director may make, or cause to be made, the inspections required by this Section. He may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection services provided that after investigation he is satisfied as to their qualifications and reliability. A certificate called for by any provision of these requirements shall not be based on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified by a responsible office of such service.
(d)
Repairs, alterations, relocations or other work on any portion of consumer's gas piping shall be done by a qualified installing agency authorized to do such work. (See Section 104.4b)
(e)
The moving, connecting or disconnecting of gas meters shall be done by Atlanta Gas Light Company employees or others authorized by Atlanta Gas Light Company to do such work.
SECTION 102. - DIRECTOR OF THE BUREAU OF BUILDINGS TO HAVE SUPERVISION, MAKE TESTS AND INSPECTIONS

102.1— - CREATION OF DUTIES
The Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall receive applications required by this Code, issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. The Director shall examine the equipment, appliance or system for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of the law and this Code are met. The Director shall enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, installation, erection, removal, demolition, use, location, and maintenance of equipment, appliances or systems, except as may be otherwise provided for in other ordinances or regulatory measures. The Director shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the interests of the City of Atlanta, Georgia so require, shall make investigations in connection with matters referred to in this Code and render written reports on the same. To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions or to secure the necessary safeguards, the Director shall issue such notices or orders as may be necessary.
102.2— - INSPECTIONS
(a)
Inspections required under the provisions of this Code shall be made by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings or duly authorized representatives. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Director, or his duly authorized representatives, may enter, at reasonable times, any building, structure or premises in the City of Atlanta, Georgia, to perform any duty imposed by this Code. The Director of the Bureau of Buildings and authorized representatives are hereby authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this Code, and are hereby invested with all police power necessary for the purpose of making arrests, issuing copies of charges and prosecution of any person or persons as may be charged with any violations of this or other ordinances of the City of Atlanta, Georgia.
(b)
All installations of any equipment, appliance or system for which a permit has been issued as prescribed in this Code shall be subject to inspection by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings or duly authorized representatives.
(c)
The director or duly authorized representatives upon notification from the permit holder shall make such inspections as may be necessary, and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or agent wherein the same fails to comply with the law.
(d)
Failure to request a final inspection by the permit holder within 30 days of job completion or prior to tenant occupancy shall be a violation of this Code, unless otherwise approved.
102.3— - RULES
(a)
The Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall promulgate rules as prescribed in this Code and consistent therewith. It being the intent of this requirement that the standards of federal and state bureaus, national technical organizations or fire underwriters, as the same may be amended from time to time, shall serve as a guide in establishing the minimum rules of practice under this Code.
(b)
For the purpose of insuring public safety, materials, equipment, appliances, or systems intended for the use in the City of Atlanta for which conditions of use are not provided for in this code, the Director or duly authorized representatives shall make are cause to be made investigations, or may accept duly authenticated reports from recognized sources, from which rules will be set forth by the Director.
(c)
No rule of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall become effective until four weeks after notice of intention to enforce it shall have been given through the publication in a newspaper in general circulation in the City of Atlanta and until a public hearing on the same shall have been held, provided that said public hearing shall not be necessary unless a request shall have been made for such hearing during the said period of publication by notice to the Director of the Bureau of Buildings. Such rule must be drawn in its proposed form and open to public inspection at the time the notice to enforce is published.
102.4— - RECORDS
(a)
The Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall keep comprehensive records of applications or permits issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued.
(b)
All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and sufficient reasons at office hours observed by the City of Atlanta, but shall not be removed from the office of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings.
SECTION 103. - APPLICATION FOR PERMIT

103.1— - WHEN REQUIRED
It shall be unlawful to construct, erect, install, alter or repair or to commence the construction, erection, installation, alteration or repair of any equipment, appliance or system provided for in this Code without first filing with the Director of the Bureau of Buildings an application in writing and obtaining a formal permit in conformity with Section 104.
EXCEPTION:
1.
Emergency installations resulting from unexpected conditions which developed suddenly and required immediate action shall be exempt from this section for a maximum period of forty-eight (48) hours subject to approval of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings if telephoned to the HVAC Division.
2.
Boilers subject to jurisdiction State of Georgia Department of Labor, Engineering Division, provided however it shall be the responsibility of installer of any boiler to provide approved certification issued by the State of Georgia Department of Labor.
103.2— - APPLICATION FORM
(a)
An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the Director of the Bureau of Buildings may prescribe.
(b)
Such application shall be made by the owner or an authorized representative, and it shall be the responsibility of the owner to see that a permit is obtained by licensed individuals (see Section 104.4) before any installation or work is started.
(c)
Such application shall contain the full names and addresses of the applicant and of the owner.
(d)
Such application shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be required by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings for an intelligent understanding of the work.
103.3— - PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
(a)
When required by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings, two or more copies of specifications and drawings to scale with sufficient clarity and detail to indicate the nature and character of the work, shall accompany every application. Such drawings and specifications shall contain name and address of designer and information in the form of notes or otherwise, as to the quality of materials, where quality is essential to conformity with this Code. Such information shall be specific, and this Code shall not be cited as a whole or in part, nor shall the term "legal" or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific information.
(b)
The Director of the Bureau of Buildings may require details, computations and other data necessary to describe the construction and basis of calculations and they shall bear the signature of the person responsible for the design.
(c)
All drawings, specifications and accompanying data shall bear the name and address of the designer. In the case of buildings or structures exceeding two stories in height or 5,000 square feet in area and/or costing $50,000 or more, except one and two family dwellings, such designer shall be an architect or engineer legally registered under the laws of this State regulating the practice of architecture or engineering and shall affix his official seal to said drawings, specifications and accompanying data.
SECTION 104. - PERMITS

104.1— - ACTION ON APPLICATION
(a)
Applications for permits shall be examined within a reasonable time after filing. If after examination, no objection is found to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the application shall be approved and a permit issued for the proposed work. If examination reveals otherwise, such application shall be rejected, and the applicant notified by a written report, or otherwise informed.
(b)
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of any violation of any of the provisions of this Code.
(c)
The issuance of a permit based on applications, plans and/or specifications shall not prevent the Director of the Bureau of Buildings from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said applications, plans and/or specifications or from preventing the work from being carried on thereunder when in violation of this Code or of other ordinances of the City of Atlanta.
104.2— - RESERVED
104.3— - PERMITS REQUIRED UNDER THIS CODE AND FEE SCHEDULES
(a)
For any gas piping on the downstream side of the meter connection, concealed or not, inside or outside of any building, the fee shall be based on the capacity of or the gas supplied by piping in accordance with Table 1, City of Atlanta HVAC Division Schedule of Permit Fees.
(b)
For the installation of one or more gas openings supplying gas to cooking appliances, see Table 1, City of Atlanta HVAC Division Schedule of Permit Fees.
(c)
Where additional trips are required to inspect inferior work or installations which have been rejected by HVAC Division, a reinspection fee of $50.00 shall be imposed for each reinspection after the initial inspection when a written notice has been issued requiring the correction of inferior work.
(d)
Minimum permit fee: $50.00
TABLE 1
CITY OF ATLANTA HVAC DIVISION
SCHEDULE OF PERMIT FEES
EXPAND
Gas piping capacity
cubic feet of
gas per hour Permit
Fee
Up thru 200 $ 15.00
201 thru     275 18.00
276 thru     345 20.00
346 thru     550 23.00
551 thru   1,000 26.00
1,001 thru   1,750 34.00
1,751 thru   5,000 43.00
5,001 thru   7,500 52.00
7,501 thru  10,000 65.00
10,001 thru  22,000 72.00
22,001 thru  45,000 87.00
45,001 thru  60,000 105.00
60,001 thru 100,000 130.00
Over 100,000 145.00
COOKING OUTLETS (ea.) $ 15.00
PUBLIC UTILITY INSPECTION $ 30.00
CHANGE OF CONTRACTOR/COMPANY $ 30.00
MINIMUM PERMIT FEE $ 40.00
  (Ord. No. 1998-9, § 5, 2-16-98; Ord. No. 2002-11, § 5, 3-5-02)
104.4— - CONDITIONS OF PERMIT
(a)
All work performed under a permit issued shall conform to the approved application and plans and all codes or ordinances governing the work or equipment for which permits were issued. All work shall be performed by an individual, contractor, firm or corporation licensed or experienced to perform such work, except when performed by an individual installing, altering or repairing plumbing, plumbing fixtures, air conditioning and heating, air conditioning and heating fixtures, or electrical services in a single family dwelling owned and occupied by the worker. Permits shall not be transferrable except as provided in 104.7.
(b)
Individuals, contractors, firms or corporations performing work governed by this Code shall register with the Director before obtaining permits, unless otherwise approved.
104.5— - EXPIRATION OF PERMIT
A permit under which no work is commenced within six (6) months after issuance, or where the work commenced is suspended or abandoned for six (6) months, shall expire by limitation, and fees paid shall be forfeited. The application, plans, and specifications shall be reviewed and a new permit required before work is started or resumed.
104.6— - REVOCATION OF PERMIT
The Director of the Bureau of Buildings may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the provisions of this Code, in case there have been any false statements or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
104.7— - NEW CONTRACTOR OR ALTERNATE CONTRACTOR ON JOB
(a)
In the event that a contractor leaves or abandons a job to which a permit has been issued before the final inspection, that contractor remains responsible for any work on that job that is not in compliance with this Code.
(b)
Any new contractor on any job which has not received final approval must apply for a new permit for all work on that job that has not been finalized and assume all responsibility. A minimum fee permit of $30.00 shall be issued.
104.8— - REFUND OF PERMIT FEES
Within six (6) months from the date of issuance of a permit, a refund request may be granted, as follows:
(a)
When a permit has been issued in error as determined by the Director, the total fee may be refunded provided no work has commenced on that permit; or
(b)
When a permit has been issued and the job has been cancelled, 50% of the permit fee may be refunded provided no work has commenced on that permit.
(c)
Any overpayment or refund request of $50.00 or less shall not be refunded.
(d)
No refund shall be issued for less than $50.00.
All applications for refunds shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the request.
(Ord. No. 1998-9, § 5, 2-16-98; Ord. No. 2002-11, § 5, 3-5-02)
SECTION 105. - UNSAFE SYSTEMS, APPLIANCES OR EQUIPMENT

105.1— - UNSAFE SYSTEMS, APPLIANCES OR EQUIPMENT
(a)
Systems, appliances or equipment covered by this Code that may be or shall be found upon inspection to have become dangerous or unsafe, shall unless made safe and so certified by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings be removed or the use of same discontinued.
(b)
The term dangerous or unsafe systems, appliances or equipment shall include systems, appliances or equipment structurally unsafe, unstable or unsanitary; constituting a fire hazard, unsuitable or improper for the use to which they are put; constituting a hazard to health or safety because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or obsolescence; or otherwise dangerous to life or property.
105.2— - NOTICE OF UNSAFE SYSTEMS, APPLIANCES OR EQUIPMENT
(a)
Upon receipt of information that systems, appliances or pieces of equipment covered by this Code are unsafe, the Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall make or cause to be made an inspection; and if it is found that an unsafe condition exists, shall serve or cause to be served on the owner, or anyone of the owners, executors, administrators, agents, lessees or other persons who may have a vested or contingent interest in the same, a written notice containing a description of the particulars in which the systems, appliances or equipment are unsafe, and an order requiring the same to be made safe, as may be deemed necessary by him.
(b)
If the person to whom such notice and order is addressed cannot be found, after diligent search, then such notice and order shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such person; and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed adequate notice.
105.3— - DISREGARD OF NOTICE
If a person served with a notice or order to remove existing unsafe conditions from systems, appliances or equipment or discontinue the use of same, should fail within a reasonable time as set by the Director of the Bureau of Buildings to comply with the requirements thereof, the Director of the Bureau of Buildings shall institute an appropriate action in the courts to compel a compliance.
SECTION 106. - VIOLATIONS

106.1— - NOTICE
Whenever the Director of the Bureau of Buildings is satisfied that systems, appliances or equipment, or any work in connection therewith that is covered by this Code, is being erected, installed, altered or repaired in violation of the provisions or requirements of this code, or in violation of plans or specifications submitted and approved thereunder, or of a permit issued thereunder, a written notice or order shall be served by the Director upon the person responsible for directing discontinuance of such illegal action and the remedying of the condition that is in violation of the provisions or requirements of this Code.
106.2— - STOPPING WORK
Whenever, in the opinion of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings, defective or illegal work in violation of a provision or requirement of this Code is in progress, he shall order, in writing or otherwise, such work to be stopped, and may require suspension of all work until the condition in violation has been corrected.
106.3— - PENALTIES
(a)
Any person who shall violate a provision of this Code or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in Section 18-1008 (General Penalty) of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta, which provides:
"Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be lawful or an offense, or whenever in this code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of a provision of this code or that ordinance shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 and costs or imprisonment in the city jail for not more than 60 days, or work on the public streets or on public works of the city for not more than 60 days, or by any one (1) or more of these punishments, subject to all limitations contained in the charter of the city. Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that the condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense."
(b)
The owner of a building, structure or premises, where anything in violation of this Code shall be placed or shall exist, and an architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in connection therewith who may have assisted in the commission of such violation shall each be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as herein provided.
Editor's note— Section 18-1008 quoted above is recodified and reworded in the 1995 city code at section 1-8.
106.4— - ABATEMENT
The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the City of Atlanta from instituting an appropriate civil action or proceeding to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent the use of any equipment, appliance or system covered by this Code.
SECTION 107. - ADVISORY BOARD

107.1— - APPOINTMENT
There is hereby created a Board to be known as the Heating and Air Conditioning Advisory Board, consisting of nine (9) members to be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council. Each member shall be either an engineer or contractor with not less than six (6) years experience in the field of heating and air conditioning. The Board will elect one of its members as Chairman. Five members of said Board shall constitute a quorum thereof for the transaction of any and all business properly coming before them. All terms shall be for a period of two (2) years, except that any term shall be automatically extended until such time as the Mayor appoints a successor.
107.2— - RECORDS
The Bureau of Buildings shall provide secretarial services to the Advisory Board and shall make a detailed record of all its proceedings, which shall set forth the reasons for the decisions and the vote of each member participating therein, the absence of a member, and the failure of a member to vote. These records shall be submitted to the Board for their approval and then kept on file as a public record in the Bureau of Buildings.
107.3— - PROCEDURE
The Board shall establish rules and regulations for its own procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Code. The Board shall meet at regular intervals, to be determined by the Chairman, or in any event, the Board shall meet within ten (10) days after notice of appeal has been received.
107.4— - APPEALS
Whenever any person shall be dissatisfied with any ruling, decision or order of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings, such person may make a written request to the Chairman of the Advisory Board for a hearing thereon. The Chairman of the Board shall thereupon call the Board to meet to hear and investigate such complaints. After a full and complete hearing on all questions in controversy, the Advisory Board shall render its opinion, concurring in, or recommending such changes in the order, ruling or decision of the Director of the Bureau of Buildings as it may deem fit or proper under the circumstances. Each action of the Board shall be by resolution, copies of which shall be certified to the Director of the Bureau of Buildings and the complaining party or parties. When the Director of the Bureau of Buildings has a question relating to any matter affecting this Code, the Director may call for the Board to meet to advise the Bureau on the problem.
107.5— - EXPENSE TO APPELLANT
Any appellant, or complaining party requesting a hearing before the Advisory Board shall pay the sum of Fifty ($50.00) Dollars to the City of Atlanta.
107.6— - COMPENSATION
Each member of the Advisory Board shall be paid Twenty-Five ($25.00) Dollars by the City of Atlanta for each meeting attended by him.
108— - LIABILITY
This Code shall not be construed as imposing upon the City of Atlanta any liability or responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in any piping or appliance mentioned herein, or by installation thereof, nor shall the City of Atlanta, or any official or employee thereof, be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by reason of the inspection authorized hereunder or the certificate of approval issued by the Inspector.
Charter reference— Boards and commissions, § 3-401.
Code of ordinances reference— Boards, councils and commissions, § 2-1851 et seq.
Cross reference— Similar provisions, app. D, § 1(107).
SECTION 2: That Chapter 2, Definitions, be altered by adding the following definitions in their proper places.
That the definitions on "Combustible Material" be replaced as follows:
Combustible Material. As pertaining to materials adjacent to or in contact with heat producing appliances, vent connectors, gas vents, chimneys, steam and hot water pipes, and warm air ducts, shall mean materials made of or surfaced with wood, compressed paper, plant fibers, or other materials that are capable of being ignited and burned. Such material shall be considered combustible even though flame-proofed, fire-retardant treated, or plastered. For the purposes of NFPA 96 - GYPSUM WALLBOARD is considered a combustible material.
Director: The Director of the Bureau of Buildings is the administration authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this Code as adopted or amended.
SECTION 3: That Chapter 3, Gas Piping Installations, be amended as follows:
(a)
In Section 305.6, Add new paragraph 305.6.4:
"305.6.4 Piping and connectors shall be run full size as required by the tables to a distance of 18 inches maximum upstream from the appliance gas valve inlet connection. A reduction may be made in piping size within 18 inches upstream from the appliance gas connection to the normal size of such gas connection."
(b)
In Section 308.6, Add new sentences:
"Where concealed piping is located in hollow walls or chases or vertical furred spaces the spaces concealing the pipe shall be ventilated to permit the escape of gas should leakage develop. Ventilation may be provided by small grilles in the wall (two: one high, one low, on each floor) or by making the opening through which the pipe leaves the concealed space at least ½″ larger than outside diameter of pipe."
(c)
In Section 308, Add new Sections 308.8:
" 308.8. CONNECTIONS IN ORIGINAL INSTALLATIONS:
When installing gas piping which is to be concealed, unions, tubing fittings, running threads, right and left couplings, bushings, and swing joints made by combinations of fittings shall not be used."
(d)
In Section 309, Add new Section 309.5.3:
309.5.3. Inaccessible Piping: For piping installations in an inaccessible ceiling or crawl space, gas piping that conforms with Section 306.1 or 306.2 and having welded or brazed joints, may be installed in such spaces and shall also be tested in accordance with Section 311 utilizing a minimum test pressure of 50 psig."
(e)
In Section 311.2: Method of Testing, revise Section to read as follows:
(1)
For threaded piping installation: When using a bourbon type gage with one pound increments, the gas piping shall withstand a pressure of 10 psig for a period of not less than 10 minutes. With a ¼ lb. increment gage, the gas piping shall withstand a pressure of 5 psig for a period of not less than 10 minutes, without showing any drop in pressure on test.
(2)
For welded piping installation: The test pressure shall not be less than 50 psig, and this pressure shall be held for a period of not less than thirty (30) minutes with no drop in pressure. A bourbon type gage with one pound increments shall be used for testing.
SECTION 4: That Chapter 4, Appliances Installation, be modified as follows:
(a)
In Section 402.1, Add the following Exception:
"EXCEPTION: The following procedure is hereby established for acceptance of unlisted heating equipment for industrial applications where such listing by an approved agency is not practical due to equipment size or configuration. The following information shall be submitted to, and accepted by, the Director prior to the ordering and installation of equipment:"
1.
A statement that the application of the heating equipment is for industrial use.
2.
A notarized Letter of Acceptance from the insurance carrier that the insurance carrier has reviewed the plans and specifications for the unlisted heating equipment and found them to be satisfactory. Where the owner is self-insured, the owner shall submit the same statement.
3.
Shop drawing and/or plans for the installation must be sealed by a licensed professional mechanical engineer registered in the State of Georgia.
4.
A notarized letter from a professional mechanical engineer registered in the State of Georgia stating that the engineer shall personally supervise the installation and start-up procedure of the unlisted equipment, and all findings and recommendations shall be forwarded to the Gas Official.
5.
A statement that the installation shall be reviewed and approved by the Atlanta Gas Light Company where natural gas is utilized as a fuel source. Where other fuel sources are used, similar such approvals shall be required by the appropriate vendor.
6.
A statement by the property owner that the insurance carrier will be specifically requested to witness the start-up procedure, where applicable.
7.
A statement that a permit shall be obtained from the City of Atlanta HVAC Division before installation is started.
Upon satisfactory resolution of the above requirements, a permit may be issued for such installation. All inspections thereafter shall be conducted as usual except that the inspector shall be present to witness the above-mentioned start-up procedure.
(b)
In Section 402.4.7, Add the following sentence:
"Provision for make-up air shall be provided for Type 2 clothes dryers, with a minimum free area of one square inch for each 1,000 BTU per hour total input rating of the dryer(s) installed."
SECTION 5: That Chapter 5, Installation Requirements for Specific Appliances, be modified as follows:
(a)
In Section 502, Add new Section 502.4:
" 502.4 Vertical Clearance Above Cooking Top.
Household cooking appliances shall have a vertical clearance above the cooking top of not less than 30 inches to combustible material or metal cabinet, except the clearance may be reduced to not less than as 24 inches as follows:
1.
The underside of the combustible material or metal cabinet above the cooking top is protected with not less than ¼ inch insulating millboard covered with sheet metal not less than 0.0122 inch thick, or
2.
A metal ventilating hood of sheet metal not less than 0.0122 inch thick is installed above the cooking top with a clearance of not less than ¼ inch between the hood and the underside of the combustible material or metal cabinet, and the hood is at least as weide as the appliance is and is centered over the appliance."
(b)
In Section 506, Add new Section 506.1.4:
"506.1.4 A decorative gas appliance for installation in a fire place shall be installed only in a vented fireplace having a working flue and constructed of noncombustible materials. These appliances may not be thermostatically controlled. The fireplace chimney shall have a permanent vent opening of not less than the area specified on the appliance table.
(c)
In Section 507.12, Add the following sentence:
"See Georgia State Energy Code for Buildings."
(d)
In Section 510.4, Add the following paragraph:
"4. Two adjoining sides of the floor furnace shall be at least 15″ from walls to eliminate necessity of occupants walking over hot register."
(e)
In Section 516, Add new Section 516.3:
516.3 COMBUSTION AND VENTILATION AIR:
"1. Where unvented infrared heaters are used, natural or mechanical means shall be provided to supply and exhaust at least 4 cfm per 1000 BTU per hour input of installed heaters.
2. Exhaust openings for removing flue products shall be above the level of the heaters."
(f)
In Section 517.1.3, Add the following sentence:
"Exhaust ducts serving Type 2 clothes dryers shall be constructed of a material equivalent in strength and corrosion resistance to min. 24 U.S. standard gage or min. 26 manufactured gage galvanized steel."
(g)
Add new Section 529; entitled Fireplace Log Lighters
529—FIREPLACE LOG LIGHTERS
529.1—GENERAL CONSTRUCTION:
"The General construction of log lighters shall be in accordance with reasonable concepts of safety, substantiality and durability. They shall be designed to maintain a fixed relationship between essential parts under normal conditions of handling and usage."
529.2—BURNER PARTS:
"Burner parts shall be accessible for cleaning after installation of lighter."
529.3—LIGHT (BURNER HEAD):
"1. Burner parts shall be level with or above hearth.
"2. The burner shall be provided with an orifice which shall limit maximum burner input to 50,000 BTU per hour.
"3. Installations shall be made in accordance with manufacturer's instructions."
529.4—PIPING:
"Steel pipe and fittings only shall be encased within the hearth."
529.5—MANUAL SHUT-OFF VALVE:
"A manual shut-off valve shall be installed in a manner to provide safe and convenient lighting of the gas. The valve after installation shall be accessible for service and lubrication when required."
SECTION 6: That Chapter 6, Venting of Appliances, be modified as follows:
(a)
In Section 604.5, Add the following sentences:
"A draft hood shall be located so its relief opening is not less than six inches from any surface except that of the gas utilization equipment it serves and the venting system to which the draft hood is connected. When a greater or lesser clearance is indicated on the equipment label, the clearance shall not be less than that specified on the label. These clearances shall not be reduced."
(b)
In Section 605.4.1, Add the following sentence and table:
Single wall metal vents not more than 6 inches in diameter shall be of galvanized steel of not less than No. 28 Galvanized Sheet Gauge.
For pipes larger than 6 inches in diameter the following table shall apply:
EXPAND
Diameter Gauge
More than  6 inches to 10 inches No. 26
More than 10 inches to 15 inches No. 24
More than 15 inches to 20 inches No. 22
More than 20 inches to 27 inches No. 20
  (c)
In Section 607, Delete 607.1, 607.1.1., 607.1.2., 607.1.3, 607.1.4 in their entirety. Add new Sections: 607.1, 607.1.1, 607.1.2, 607.1.3:
607.1 Materials:
607.1.1 A vent connector shall be made of noncombustible corrosion-resistant material capable of withstanding the vent gas temperature produced by the gas utilization equipment and of sufficient thickness to withstand physical damage.
(a)
Vent connectors for residential-type appliances shall comply with the following:
1.
Appliances Installed in Attics: Vent connectors for listed gas appliances having draft hoods and appliances listed for use with Type B gas vents, which are installed in attics, shall be of Type B or Type L vent material.
2.
Appliances Not Installed in Attics: Vent connectors for listed gas appliances having draft hoods and for appliances having draft hoods and equipped with listed conversion burners, which are not installed in attics, shall be of Type B or Type L vent materials or metal pipe having resistance to heat and corrosion not less than that of galvanized sheet steel or aluminum not less than 0.0122 inch thick.*
*This corresponds to No. 28 Galvanized Sheet Gage number with all applicable minus tolerances included.
Vent connectors for combination gas- and oil-burning appliances, residential incinerators, and appliances other than those noted in "1" above, and which are not installed in attics, shall be of Type L vent material, factory-built chimney section, or steel pipe having resistance to heat and corrosion not less than that of galvanized steel as specified in Table X.
607.1.2 A vent connector for low-heat equipment shall be a factory-built chimney section or steel pipe having resistance to heat and corrosion equivalent to that for the appropriate galvanized pipe as specified in Table X. Factory-built chimney sections shall be joined together in accordance with the chimney manufacturer's instructions.
607.1.3 Vent connectors for medium-heat equipment and commercial and industrial incinerators shall be constructed of factory-built medium-heat chimney sections or steel of a thickness not less than that specified in Table XI, and shall comply with the following:
1.
A steel vent connector for equipment with a vent gas temperature in excess of 1000 F, measured at the entrance to the connector, shall be lined with medium duty fire brick (ASTM C64, Type F), or the equivalent.
2.
The lining shall be at least 2-½ inches thick for a vent connector having a diameter or greatest cross-section dimension of 18 inches or less.
3.
The lining shall be at least 4-½ inches thick laid on the 4-½-inch bed for a vent connector having a diameter or greatest cross-section dimension greater than 18 inches.
Table X
Minimum Thickness for Galvanized Steel Vent
Connectors for Low-Heat Appliances
EXPAND
Diameter of
Connector,
Inches Minimum
Thickness,
Inches*
less than 6 0.019 (26)
6 to less than 10 0.023 (24)
10 to 12 inclusive 0.029 (22)
14 to 16 inclusive 0.034 (20)
over 0.056 (16)
  *The figures in parentheses are the corresponding Galvanized Sheet Gage number with all applicable minus tolerances included.
Table XI
Minimum Thickness for Steel Vent
Connectors for Medium Heat
Equipment and Commercial and
Industrial Incinerators
EXPAND
      Vent Connector Size      
Diameter,
Inches Area
Square Inches Minimum
Thickness,
Inches*
up to 14 up to 154 0.053 (16)
over 14 to 16 154 to 201 0.067 (14)
over 16 to 18 201 to 254 0.093 (12)
over 18 Larger than 254 0.123 (10)
  *The figures in parentheses are the corresponding Manufacturer's Standard Gage number with all applicable minus tolerances included.
4.
Factory-built chimney sections, if employed, shall be joined together in accordance with the chimney manufacturer's instructions.
(d)
In Section 607.13, Add the following EXCEPTION:
"EXCEPTION: Vent connectors shall not connect to any chimney that is in use for equipment burning other fuel unless such chimneys are of adequate area and height to produce the necessary draft at all times and assure safe and satisfactory operation of all equipment."
SECTION 7: That Chapter 8, Gas Equipment in Unlisted Boilers, be modified as follows:
(a)
In Section 801, SCOPE, add the following:
"Certification requirements, repairs, installations, and alterations shall be in accordance with the Official Code of Georgia Annotated Title 34 Chapter 11 (Boiler and Pressure Vessel Safety Act). All boilers must be permitted and inspected by the State of Georgia, Department of Labor, Safety Engineering Section."
SECTION 8: That a new section be added to the Appendix.
APPENDIX E: GENERAL PRECAUTIONS FOR SAFETY
1. TURN GAS OFF
All gas piping or gas appliance installation shall be performed with the gas turned off to eliminate hazards from leakage of gas.
2. NOTIFICATION OF INTERRUPTED SERVICE
Except in an emergency, it shall be the duty of the installing agency when the gas supply is to be turned off, to notify all affected consumers.
3. BEFORE TURNING GAS OFF
When two or more consumers are served from the same supply, precaution shall be exercised to assure that only service to the proper consumer is turned off.
4. CHECKING FOR GAS LEAKS
Matches, candles, flame or other sources of ignition shall not be employed to check for gas leakage.
5. USE OF LIGHTS
Artificial illumination used in connection with a search for gas leakage shall be restricted to electric hand flash lights, electric lights controlled only by switches remote from the area of the leakage, or approved safety lamps.
6. NO SMOKING
When working on piping which contains or has contained gas, smoking shall not be permitted.
7. HANDLING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
Flammable liquids used by the installer shall be handled with proper precautions and shall not be left within the premises from the end of one working day to the beginning of the next.
8. WORK INTERRUPTIONS
When interruptions in work occur, the system shall be left in a safe and satisfactory condition.
SECTION 9: VALIDITY
If any section, sub-section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is, for any reason held to be unconstitutional (or invalid) such (holding) shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance.
SECTION 10: This ordinance shall become effective upon the approval by the Mayor or upon becoming law without approval, except as to cases pending in any court, the previous Gas Pipe Code of the City of Atlanta, Georgia, shall remain in full force and in effect until those cases are finally determined.
SECTION 11: All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed. Safety Engineering Section."
