Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 2-1. - City paid golf professionals.
In all municipalities having a population of 300,000 or more, according to the United States Census of 1950, or any future United States census, all golf professionals employed, associated or serving in any capacity as employees, facilities or adjuncts of any park, golf course or other recreational facility owned or operated by such city, shall be compensated equally and shall bear equal status and classification; except that compensation, when derived from commissions on the sale or rental of facilities or equipment, shall not be affected thereby. Provided, however, that no golf professionals shall be paid less than $300.00 per month by the governing authorities, exclusive of commissions derived from the sale or rental of facilities or equipment.
(1957 Ga. Laws, page 2843, § 1; 1964 Ga. Laws p. 2707, § 1)
Secs. 2-2—2-35. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - FINANCE
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 2-36. - Promotion of industry.
Article VII, section VI, paragraph I, of the Constitution of Georgia, be and the same is hereby amended by adding at the end of said paragraph the following language:
Provided, however, that the board of commissioners of the County of Fulton and the proper authorities of the City of Atlanta are authorized to make appropriations from county or city funds not derived from taxation to advertise and promote the agricultural, industrial, historic, recreational and natural resources, facilities and assets of such county and city and environs, to encourage the location of new industries therein and to attract tourists and conventions of visitors thereto, making such appropriations directly for such purposes, or through such agencies as it may designate.
(1943 Ga. Laws, page 24, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1877) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4029.
Sec. 2-37. - Self-insurance for motor vehicles.
(a)
All municipal corporations of Georgia whose population as determined by the 1960 federal decennial census or any later federal decennial census shall be more than 350,000 are authorized in their discretion to become self-insurers under the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 33-24-51.
(b)
Each such municipality shall be authorized to provide for the amount and extent of self insurance which such municipality shall assume, the necessary risk and the type of additional or excess insurance coverage that may be required.
(1970 Ga. Laws, page 3207, §§ 1, 2; 1991 Ga. Laws, page 302, § 1)
Secs. 2-38—2-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - BONDS, REVENUE CERTIFICATES AND OTHER INSTRUMENTS OF INDEBTEDNESS

Sec. 2-56. - Street improvement bonds.
Provided, any municipality having a population of 150,000 or more can issue and sell street improvement bonds, without the said assent of two-thirds ( 2/3 ) of the qualified voters at an election called thereon, but upon a two-thirds ( 2/3 ) vote of the members of its governing body, with these limitations:
(1)
First, the time of such bonds shall in no case exceed 10 years.
(2)
Second, the amount of each issue shall be limited to the amount assessed by such municipality upon each improvement.
(3)
Third, these bonds shall be issued only for the grading and paving or repaving of streets.
(4)
Fourth, the interest thereon shall not exceed six per centum (6%) per annum.
(5)
Fifth, these bonds can be issued without regard to the amount of other outstanding debts or bonds of said municipality.
(6)
Sixth, these bonds not be issued except in case such pavement or repavement has been petitioned for in writing by the owners of more than 50 percent of the property abutting on the street or portion of street paved or repaved.
(1920 Ga. Laws, page 25, § 1, ratified Nov. 2, 1920)
Editor's note— Constitutional provision. The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1877) art. VII, § VII, ¶ I was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4508.
Sec. 2-57. - Revenue certificates for repairs and improvements in waterworks department and sanitary department.
And, except that the City of Atlanta for the purpose of (1) improving, repairing, constructing and reconstructing, making additions, extensions, alterations, or improvements in its waterworks system, and acquiring the necessary property therefor; and (2) improving, repairing, purchasing, installing and constructing incinerators or crematories for the disposal of garbage, refuse and waste, by its sanitary department, and acquiring the necessary property therefor, either or both, may, from time to time, issue interest bearing revenue certificates to be paid solely out of the revenues derived from water or sanitary service charges respectively, and to provide for the payment of said revenue certificates by setting aside in special funds to be known as "waterworks department revenue fund" and "sanitary department revenue fund," a sufficient sum, not to exceed 40 per centum of the annual charges, fees and taxes received from the water and sanitary service charges respectively, to retire the certificates. Said percentages shall be based upon the total annual receipts from each of said services for the year previous to the issue. Said certificates may be issued in one (1) or more series, bearing such date or dates, maturing at such time or times not exceeding 20 years from their respective dates; with interest at such rate or rates, not exceeding five per centum (5%) per annum, payable at such time or times, and in such medium of payment at such place or places, and in such denomination or denominations and form, either coupon or registered, and may carry such registration, conversion and exchangeability privileges, and may be subject to such terms of redemption with or without premium, and to become due before the maturity date thereof, and be executed in such manner and contain such terms, covenants, assignments and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such certificates may provide. Said certificates shall not be sold for less than par value. Said certificates shall be negotiable for all purposes and shall be nontaxable for any and all purposes. They shall be issued when authorized by a majority vote of the mayor and board of aldermen, and signed by the mayor and comptroller of the City of Atlanta, and validated pursuant to the existing laws for validation of bonds and when so validated thereunder shall be forever incontestable and conclusive. Before issuing any such revenue certificates the mayor and board of aldermen shall provide by resolution for the allocation of a percentage of the anticipated receipts necessary to pay said certificates as they mature from the particular service from which the certificates are to be paid for the year in which they mature, and as said funds are received they shall be deposited in said special funds, without deduction, for the benefit of any other department or fund of the City of Atlanta and used solely for payment of the principal and interest of said certificates. Said revenue certificates shall not be payable from or charged upon any funds other than the revenue pledged to the payment thereof, nor shall the City of Atlanta be subject to any pecuniary liability thereon, nor shall any such certificates constitute a charge, lien or incumbrance upon any of its property. The obligation created by said certificates shall not be construed as a debt within the restriction as to debt limit of this paragraph.
(1939 Ga. Laws, page 8, § 1; 1947 Ga. Laws, page 664, § 1; 1956 Ga. Laws, page 257, § 1; 1962 Ga. Laws, page 1002, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1877), art. VII, § VII, ¶ I was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4810.
Sec. 2-58. - Revenue anticipation obligations for grandstands and stadia.
Revenue anticipation obligations may be issued by the City of Atlanta, Fulton County or DeKalb County, or either of them or by any public corporation created by them or either of them, to provide funds for the construction, in whole or in part of grandstands and stadia or either of them, or to provide funds to extend, repair or improve such existing facilities. Such revenue anticipation obligations shall be payable, as to principal and interest, only from revenue produced by such facilities, and shall not be deemed debts of or to create debts against, the issuing political subdivision within the meaning of the Constitution as amended; and no such issuing political subdivision shall exercise the power of taxation for the purpose of paying the principal or interest of any such revenue anticipation obligations or any part thereof.
(1947 Ga. Laws, page 1759, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945), art. VII, § VII, ¶ V was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4786.
Sec. 2-59. - Twelve percent debt limit.
Article VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia, as amended, be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new section to be appropriately numbered and to read as follows:
Section ____________ , Paragraph I. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the total indebtedness hereafter incurred by the City of Atlanta, except as in this Constitution provided for, shall never exceed 12 per centum of the assessed value of all the taxable property therein, provided such indebtedness shall be authorized by the assent of the majority of the qualified voters of said city voting in an election for that purpose to be held as prescribed by law;
Provided further, that the indebtedness of said city, now existing for all purposes or hereafter incurred, for its lawful corporate purposes, other than school purposes, shall never exceed eight per centum (8%) of the assessed value of all the taxable property therein;
And provided further, that the indebtedness of said city, hereafter incurred, for the purpose of providing funds to acquire, construct, equip, improve and add to new or existing school buildings or facilities of the school system of the city, and for the acquisition of the necessary land and other property therefor and the payment of expenses incident thereto, shall never exceed four per centum (4%) of the assessed value of all the taxable property therein.
(1956 Ga. Laws, page 360, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4816.
Sec. 2-60. - Stadium; retirement of construction debt.
Article XI of the Constitution of the State of Georgia of 1945, as amended, be further amended by adding at the end thereof the following provision:
Paragraph XI: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, Fulton County is hereby authorized to cooperate with the City of Atlanta, or any authority now in existence or hereafter created, to construct a stadium and related facilities within the corporate limits of the City of Atlanta, and to that end is hereby authorized to contract with said city and any such authority for the purpose of paying up to one-third of the amount necessary to retire the principal of and the interest on any obligations issued to finance the construction of any such stadium and related facilities.
(1964 Ga. Laws, page 891, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4047.
Sec. 2-61. - Bonds for school purposes.
Article VII of the Constitution, as amended, is further amended by adding at the end thereof a new section to be appropriately numbered and to read as follows:
Section ____________ Paragraph I. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the City of Atlanta may issue general obligation bonds for school purposes without submitting the issuance thereof to the voters of said city at a referendum, subject to the following restrictions and limitations:
(1)
The issuance of such bonds shall be authorized at a public meeting held for such purpose after at least 10 days' notice thereof in the official organ of said city, and in at least one (1) of the daily newspapers of said city. Within 30 days after said public hearing, any person opposed to the issuance of said bonds without a referendum may prepare a petition for a referendum, to be filed with the city clerk of the City of Atlanta. If such petition shall contain the signatures of not less than five percent (5%) of the registered voters of said city, and such fact shall be determined by the clerk, the clerk shall call an election to be held in said city, at which time the question of the issuance of the bonds shall be submitted to the vote of the qualified voters of the City of Atlanta, at an election to be held not earlier than 30 days nor later than 45 days from the date of said call; provided, however, that the board of aldermen, upon the filing of said petition for referendum, may withdraw the proposal from further consideration and decline to issue the bonds, either with or without a referendum. Should the board make such an election to withdraw, no new public meetings to consider the same proposal may be had within a period of 90 days following the date on which the aforesaid petition for referendum was filed.
(2)
Not more than $4,000,000.00 in aggregate principal amount of such bonds so issued without a referendum shall be issued in any fiscal year.
(3)
The aggregate of all outstanding bonds, including those issued by vote of the people in a referendum and those issued under this amendment without a referendum, shall not exceed the limitations provided elsewhere in this article.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1582, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4822.
Sec. 2-62. - Bonds for school system repairs and additions.
Article VII of the Constitution of Georgia, as amended, be further amended by adding at the end thereof a new section to be appropriately numbered and to be as follows:
Notwithstanding, any other provisions of this Constitution, the City of Atlanta is authorized to incur bonded indebtedness to the extent of $45,000,000.00 issued for the purpose of providing funds to repair, add to and improve the existing school facilities of the city public school system, to purchase equipment necessary for the proper utilization of additions to and renovations of existing school buildings or facilities and to acquire, construct and equip new school buildings and facilities, acquire the property necessary therefor and pay the expenses incident thereto. Said bonded indebtedness shall be incurred by the City of Atlanta in all respects in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution except that the same may be incurred from time to time, but not later than December 31, 1970, upon request of the Board of Education of the City of Atlanta and shall not be conditioned upon approval by the voters in a referendum or election, and provided further that said indebtedness shall be in addition to any other indebtedness which the city is now or may hereafter be authorized to incur.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1589, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4564.
Sec. 2-63. - Bonds for nonschool purposes.
Article VII of the Constitution, as amended, is further amended by adding at the end thereof a new section to be appropriately numbered and to read as follows:
Section ____________ Paragraph I. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the City of Atlanta may issue general obligation bonds for any lawful public purpose other than for school purposes, without submitting the issuance thereof to the voters of said city at a referendum, subject to the following restrictions and limitations:
(1)
The issuance of such bonds shall be authorized at a public meeting held for such purpose after at least 10 days' notice thereof in the official organ of said city, and in at least one (1) of the daily newspapers of said city. Within 30 days after said public hearing, any person opposed to the issuance of said bonds without a referendum may prepare a petition for a referendum, to be filed with the city clerk of the City of Atlanta. If such petition shall contain the signatures of not less than five percent (5%) of the registered voters of said city, and such fact shall be determined by the clerk, the clerk shall call an election to be held in said city, at which time the question of the issuance of the bonds shall be submitted to the vote of the qualified voters of the City of Atlanta, at an election to be held not earlier than 30 days nor later than 45 days from the date of said call; provided, however, that the board of aldermen, upon the filing of said petition for referendum, may withdraw the proposal from further consideration and decline to issue the bonds, either with or without a referendum.
(2)
Should the board make such an election to withdraw, no new public meeting to reconsider the same proposal may be had within a period of 90 days following the date on which the aforesaid petition for referendum was filed.
(3)
Not more than $4,000,000.00 in aggregate principal amount of such bonds so issued without a referendum shall be issued in any fiscal year.
(4)
The aggregate of all outstanding bonds, including those issued by vote of the people in a referendum and those issued under this amendment without a referendum, shall not exceed the limitations provided elsewhere in this article.
(1968 Ga. Laws, page 1586, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1945) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4824.
Sec. 2-64. - Revenue bonds for off-street parking.
Article IX, section VIII, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, relating to the issuance of revenue bonds, be and the same is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
"The City of Atlanta shall have power and authority to issue and sell revenue bonds subject to and in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Act of the General Assembly approved March 31, 1937, known as the `Revenue Bond Law of 1937,' [O.C.G.A. § 36-82-60 et seq.] as amended and as the same may be hereafter amended, to provide funds for the purchase of lands and the construction and establishment thereon of off-street vehicle parking lots, parking structures, parking buildings, parking garages, and parking facilities; provided, however, that such parking lots, parking structures, parking buildings, parking garages, and parking facilities shall be contiguous to, adjacent to, related to or incidental to municipally owned buildings or structures. Said city shall have power and authority to equip, maintain, and operate such parking lots, parking structures, parking buildings, parking garages, and parking facilities."
(1980 Ga. Laws, page 2112, § 1)
Editor's note— The above local constitutional amendment to Ga. Const. (1976) was continued in effect by 1986 Ga. Laws, page 4830.
