Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - Citation of Code.
The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Monticello, Georgia," and may be so cited.
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the mayor and council:
Charter. The word "Charter" means the Charter of the City of Monticello, Georgia, as printed in Part I of this volume.
City. The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words "City of Monticello, Georgia," followed them.
City council. The words "city council" or "the council" shall mean the mayor and councilmembers of the City of Monticello, Georgia.
Code. The word "Code" shall mean this Code of Ordinances, City of Monticello, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time except hours is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted, and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action falls on a public and legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Councilmember. The word "councilmember" means any person elected to that office, and shall include those persons who hold other offices who by the terms of the charter are ex officio members.
County. The words "the county" or "this county" mean the County of Jasper in the State of Georgia.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than those imposed by the general provisions of the Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such persons or officers.
Judge. The word "judge" means the judge of the municipal court of the city, except where otherwise stated.
Keeper; proprietor. The words "keeper" and "proprietor" mean and include persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Limits; corporation; city. The word "limits," "corporation" or "city" means the corporate limits of the city, the legal boundary of the City of Monticello.
Mayor. The word "mayor" means the mayor of the City of Monticello.
Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
Names of officers. Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be construed as though the words "of the City of Monticello" were added.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. O.C.G.A. means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
Or; and. The word "or" may be read as "and," and the word "and" may be read as "or," if the sense requires it.
Other officials or officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only, i.e., "city clerk," "chief of police," etc., they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions and departments of the City of Monticello, Georgia, and their authorized agents, assistants and representatives.
Owner. The word "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property.
Preceding; following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before and next after, respectively.
Premises. The word "premises" means place or places.
Property. The word "property" includes real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" means any park, cemetery or schoolyard, or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available or accessible to the public.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Residence. The term "residence" means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" means the official consolidated list compiled and published by the city which contains rates for utility and other public enterprises, fees, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the city council, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, where it is available for reference and review during normal business hours.
Seal. The word "seal" means the city seal, the seal of the corporation.
Shall, may. "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The words "the state" mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The word "street" includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
Tenant; occupant. The word "tenant" or "occupant," when applied to a building or land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The word "week" means seven days.
Written; in writing. The words "written" or "in writing" include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The word "year" means a calendar year.
State Law reference— Computation of time, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1; construction of definitions, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-2; meaning of certain words, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3; time, O.C.G.A. § 9-11-6.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
(a)
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections or any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
State Law reference— Notes and catchlines of code sections not part of law, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-7.
Sec. 1-4. - Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances.
The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-6. - Ordinances not affected by Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code;
(2)
Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's indebtedness;
(3)
Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
(4)
Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
(5)
Any right or franchise granted by the city;
(6)
Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
(7)
Any appropriation ordinance;
(8)
Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
(9)
Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
(10)
Any zoning ordinance;
(11)
Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
(12)
Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
(13)
The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
(14)
Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included in this Code;
(15)
Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by the ordinance adopting this Code, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this Code.
Sec. 1-7. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the mayor and council that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since such provisions would have been enacted by the mayor and council without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
State Law reference— Severability, O.C.G.A. § 1-1-3.
Sec. 1-8. - Amendments to Code.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the mayor and council.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this Code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Monticello, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: ___________." The new provisions may then be set out in full as desired.
(c)
If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added, the following language may be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of Monticello, Georgia, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article or chapter) to be numbered _____, which said section reads as follows: ___________." The new section may then be set out in full as desired.
(d)
All paragraphs, subsections, sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by paragraph, subsection, section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
Sec. 1-9. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier, meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections _____ to _____," inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code; and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the mayor and council, which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby. Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in section 1-12.
State Law reference— Altering, falsifying or stealing public records unlawful, O.C.G.A. § 45-11-1.
Sec. 1-11. - Liability for violations by corporations and other associations.
(a)
Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association or organization.
(b)
Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association or organization for the violation by it of any provisions of this Code, where such violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order, of any such person.
Sec. 1-12. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited, is declared to be unlawful, whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is declared to be unlawful, or whenever this Code places an affirmative duty upon a citizen and that citizen fails to perform that duty, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall subject the person committing the violation to a fine not exceeding $1,000.00 and costs or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment, any or all of such penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the municipal court judge.
(b)
In addition to the penalties provided in subsection (a) of this section, any conditions caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the city as provided by law, and each day that such conditions continue shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(c)
The infliction of a penalty under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action where called for or permitted under the provisions of the city's Charter or Code.
State Law reference— Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond, O.C.G.A. § 15-21-73; alternative punishments for violations of municipal ordinances involving a traffic offense, O.C.G.A. § 17-10-3(e); confinement of violators of ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; authorization to impose any punishment up to the maximum specified by general law, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-1(c); limitations on home rule powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-35-6; jurisdiction of municipal courts over misdemeanor traffic offenses, O.C.G.A. § 40-13-21(a); revenues collected from fines and fees, O.C.G.A. § 47-17-60 et seq.
