ARTICLE III. - ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS

Sec. 3.01. - Districts.
The unincorporated area of Sumter County is hereby divided into zoning districts as follows:
EXPAND
AG Agriculture
R-1 Single-Family Residential
R-2 Mixed Use, Single-Family
Residential
R-3 Multifamily Residential
RR Rural Residential
C-1 Local Business
C-2 General Commercial
C-3 Commercial Recreation
I-1 Light Industry
I-2 Heavy Industry
FH Flood Hazard
MHP Manufactured Home Park
RVP Recreational Vehicle Park
  Sec. 3.02. - District boundaries.
A.
The boundaries of the above districts are shown on a set of maps designated "Official Zoning Map, Sumter County, Georgia."
B.
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any district as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
1.
Where zoning district boundaries are indicated as following the center lines of roads or highways or railroad rights-of-way, or extensions to said center lines or rights-of-way, such center lines or rights-of-way or extensions of such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
2.
Where district boundaries are indicated as following the county line, the corporate limits line of any incorporated place, the militia district line of any militia district, or the land lot line of any land lot, such county line, corporate limits line, militia district line or land lot line shall be construed to be such boundaries.
3.
Where district boundaries are indicated as parallel to the center lines of streets or highways, such district boundaries, unless otherwise specifically indicated, shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at a distance of 200 or 500 feet from the right-of-way line of such streets and highways with each such boundary being shown at scale on the official zoning map.
4.
Where district boundaries are indicated as following the center line of stream beds or river beds, or extensions thereof, such center lines or such lines extended shall be construed to be such boundaries.
Sec. 3.03. - District boundary lines dividing a lot.
In the event a district boundary line on the zoning map divides a lot of record held in one ownership on the date of passage of this chapter [appendix], each part of the lot so divided shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter [appendix] for the district in which each such part is located; except, however, that if the property owner of such a lot so desires, he may extend a use allowed on said lot 50 feet beyond the district boundary line but shall comply with setbacks and yard requirements of the district into which he is encroaching.
Sec. 3.04. - Limited use (L.U.) provision.
The board of commissioners establishes the limited use provision for the purpose of allowing an applicant to request that a certain area be designated as a limited use. In some areas of the county a particular land use activity out of a general zoning classification may have less community impact than some of the possibilities of uses in that specific classification. For this reason, an applicant may request in his rezoning petition to limit the use of a proposed property to a specified use only, e.g. C-1 L.U./beauty shop. The limited use must be among the uses permitted in the zoning classification for which the limited use is taken.
