Chapter 47 - PUBLIC SAFETY
ARTICLE I. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 47-1. - Definitions.
[The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:]
Alcoholic beverages means and includes all alcohol, distilled spirits, beer, malt beverages, wine or fortified wine.
Controlled substance means a drug, substance, or immediate precursor as defined in O.C.G.A. ยง 16-13-21.
Courthouse means the Sumter County Courthouse located at 500 West Lamar Street, Americus, Georgia.
Dangerous drug has the same meaning as defined by O.C.G.A. ยง 16-13-71.
Drugs are any substance, plant, compound, synthetic of natural agent that are controlled by state and federal laws.
Guard line means a delineated area marked plainly by signs that read "Guard Line of Sumter County Jail." Guard lines shall be used by the county as provided by Georgia law.
Jail means any facility and location, including, but not limited to, the courthouse and Sumter County Law Enforcement Center, designated by the sheriff for the holding of inmates or detainees.
Weapon means any gun, pistol, rifle, firearm of any kind or type, knives, box cutters, sharp instruments that can reasonable be used as an offensive weapon, metal knuckles, destructive devices or any other item that can be reasonably determined by courthouse security and bailiffs and the sheriff and his or her deputies to be a weapon or a potential weapon.
(Ord. of 9-20-2011)
ARTICLE II. - GUARD LINES, JAILS AND COURTHOUSE

Sec. 47-2. - Use of guard lines and signage; restrictions.
(a)
The sheriff or his/her designee will cause any jail located in Sumter County to display guard line signage in accordance with O.C.G.A. ยง 42-5-14. The guard line signage shall read "Guard Line of Sumter County Jail." Signs shall be placed at all entrances and exits for vehicles and pedestrians at the jail and at such intervals along the guard lines as will reasonably place all persons approaching the guard lines on notice of the location of the jail.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to cross a guard line in this county who is in possession of any alcoholic beverage, controlled substance, dangerous drug or weapon, as defined herein unless such person or persons has express permission by the sheriff, or if the board of commissioners grants permission of such items to be presented for display or demonstration at a board of commissioners meeting. If such permission is granted by the board of commissioners, the board will promptly notify the sheriff of their decision prior to the items entering the courthouse and will confer with the sheriff to ensure the security of the courthouse and the jail contained therein, and to ensure the safety of the citizens of Sumter County. This article shall not apply to any law enforcement officer in the performance of his/her duties or any judge of this state or district attorney.
(c)
An person crossing a guard line in this county may be subject to search if a law enforcement officer has a reasonable and articulable suspicion to believe that such person is in possession of any of the items described in subsection 47-2(b) contrary to this article.
(d)
The penalty for any violation of this article shall be in accordance with section 1-11 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. of 9-20-2011)
