Chapter 54 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building regulations, ch. 18; environment, ch. 34; manufactured homes and trailers, ch. 42; utilities, ch. 70.
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local, multijurisdictional and regional solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; scrap tire disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.1; yard trimmings disposal restrictions, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-40.2; Litter Control Law, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.; authorization to provide garbage and solid waste collection and disposal, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(2); transporting garbage or waste across state or county boundaries without permission, O.C.G.A. § 36-1-16; littering highways, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-249; transportation of biomedical waste, O.C.G.A. § 40-6-253.1; solid waste management education program, establishment of Georgia Clean and Beautiful Advisory Committee and Interagency Council on Solid Waste Management, O.C.G.A. § 50-8-7.3.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 54-1. - Solid waste management plan adopted.
modified
The Multi-Jurisdictional Ten-Year Solid Waste Management Plan for Sumter County of 2004—2019 prepared by the River Valley Regional Commission is adopted as the solid waste management plan for the county.
(Ord. of 3-8-94; Ord. of 8-8-95; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Secs. 54-2—54-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - WASTE MANAGEMENT AND LITTER CONTROL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 54-31. - Purpose.
modified
It is the purpose of this article to provide for the healthy and sanitary management and disposal of solid waste in the county to ensure the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county and encourage recycling of selected material through education and voluntary compliance. It shall apply to the preparation, storage, collection and disposal of all solid waste and shall prohibit unsanitary conditions in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, preamble; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-32. - Definitions.
modified
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Ashes means the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible materials.
Bags means plastic sacks designed for waste material with sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top with no support beneath and securely tied at the top for collection, with a capacity not to exceed 30 gallons and a loaded weight not to exceed 35 pounds.
Brown goods means bulky waste such as sofas, chairs, mattresses, and other similar home or office furniture items too large for 96 gallon containers.
Building material means any non-hazardous material defined as, but not limited to, lumber, brick, block, stone, carpet, plumbing materials, plaster, concrete, roofing, floor tile, gutters or other substances accumulated as a result of the construction of or repairs or additions to structures or accessory structures or the demolition of such.
Bulky waste means a large appliance, piece of furniture, or waste material from a residential source other than construction debris or hazardous waste and with a weight or volume greater than that allowed for containers.
Commercial establishment means any hotel, motel, restaurant, business, public or semipublic establishment of any kind, excluding industrial establishments. An operation conducted from a residence requiring a business license is a commercial establishment for purposes of this article.
Commercial unit means any commercial operation, such as a hotel, restaurant, store, office, warehouse, or other non-manufacturing establishment, provided with a 96 gallon container or front-loading container. All commercial units shall be located in the service area.
Commercial solid waste means all types of non-hazardous solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding industrial waste.
Construction debris means non-hazardous waste building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, or demolition operations.
Container means a receptacle (not including front-loading containers) made of plastic, metal, or fiberglass with a capacity not to exceed 100 gallons, a loaded weight of not more than 75 pounds, a tight-fitting lid, and handles of adequate strength for lifting.
County administrator (CA) means the county administrator or his/her duly authorized representative.
County transfer station means the transfer station located at 361 McMath Mill Road in Sumter County owned by the Solid Waste Authority of Crisp County and operated by GFL (formerly Transwaste) through a contract with the Solid Waste Authority of Crisp County.
Covered units means all of the commercial units, industrial units and/or residential units within the service area with respect to which the county or county's contractor has agreed to perform the services contemplated pursuant to an agreement.
Disposal site means a refuse depository for the processing or disposal of waste material, including, but not limited to, sanitary landfills, transfer stations, incinerators, and waste processing separation centers, licensed, permitted, or approved by all governmental bodies and agencies having jurisdiction.
Extra waste means the volume of brown goods, white goods, and bulky waste collected from covered units by AGER and included within the $5,500.00 of brown goods, white goods and bulky waste collected from covered units at county expense.
Front-loading containers means a metal receptacle that can be mechanically lifted into collection vehicles for disposal of the waste material contained therein.
Garbage means the by-product resulting from the growing, harvesting, processing, handling, preparation, cooking, or consumption of animal or vegetable food, or other matter subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction for the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odors, or which during or after decay may serve as breeding areas or feeding material for flies, insects, or animals.
Hazardous waste means waste designated, regulated, or defined as hazardous waste pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6921, et seq. or the Georgia Hazardous Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-60, et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as the foregoing currently exist or may hereafter be amended.
Household trash means residential waste accumulation usually attendant upon housekeeping, such as paper, sweepings, dust, rags, bottles, cans or other residential refuse of any kind, other than garbage, excluding hazardous refuse, ashes, and building material.
Industrial unit means an establishment generating industrial waste and provided with a container or front-loading container. Each industrial unit shall be within the service area.
Industrial waste means waste designated, regulated, or defined as industrial waste pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq. or the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20, et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as the foregoing currently exist or may hereafter be amended.
Laws means applicable federal, state, and local laws, statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, and other governmental requirements.
Litter means all discarded manmade materials, including but not limited to garbage, household trash, industrial waste, building materials, appliances or portions thereof, refuse, waste materials, sand, gravel, slag, brickbats, rubbish, tin cans, trash, debris, dead animals, or any other discarded, used or unconsumed substance not handled in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Loading and unloading area means a space or area used by any moving vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares, commodities and persons.
Mobile home park means a parcel of land that has been planned and improved for the placement of two or more mobile homes for nontransient use and for rent.
Multi-family dwelling means a building designed for or occupied by two or more families, such as apartments, duplexes and triplexes.
Municipal solid waste means waste designated, regulated, or defined as municipal solid waste pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq. or the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20, et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as the foregoing currently exist or may hereafter be amended, including, but not limited to, garbage, household trash, white goods, brown goods, and bagged yard trimmings, excepting hazardous refuse.
Recyclables means waste material that may be collected and reclaimed or remanufactured for use in products made completely or partially from such reused products.
Refuse means solid waste accumulations consisting of any combination of ashes, building material, garbage, hazardous refuse, household trash, rubbish or other waste, or discarded materials of all kinds.
Refuse receptacle means a container approved by the CA as acceptable for the temporary reception and storage of refuse pending transportation to a permanent disposal site. The term shall include plastic bags where approved by the CA.
Residential unit means a dwelling or occupied living space within the service area, including, but not limited to, single family residences, apartments, efficiency units, mobile homes, and condominiums, provided with a container by the county or county contractor. All residential units shall be located within the service area.
Rubbish means non-decayable solid waste consisting of combustible and non-combustible materials.
Rules and regulations means the detailed rules and regulations approved by the board of commissioners the CA is authorized to use and enforce for the efficient and safe operation of this article.
Sanitation fee means the amount to be paid by persons responsible under the terms of this article for the sanitary handling or disposal of solid waste by the county or their designee.
Scavenge, scavenging means the unauthorized and uncontrolled retrieval of discarded refuse materials.
Service area means the geographic area consisting of the unincorporated areas of the county.
Waste material means municipal solid waste, industrial waste, and commercial waste which may be disposed of in a Subtitle D landfill, without special handling or further processing, under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq. or the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20, et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as the foregoing currently exist or may hereafter be amended.
White goods means bulky waste such as refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, stoves, dishwashers, televisions, and other large appliances.
Yard trimmings means leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance other than mining, agricultural, and silvicultural operations and waste designated, regulated, or defined as yard trimmings pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq. or the Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20, et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as the foregoing currently exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § I; Amd. of 6-8-99; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 54-33—54-55. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2.

Sec. 54-56. - Authority of county administrator.
modified
The CA or his/her designees shall have charge of the administration of this article. The CA is authorized, with the written approval of the board of commissioners, to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations concerning waste collection, conveyance and disposal, and respecting the size, type, specifications, number and location of all containers and fees charged for collections. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law, but shall not be contrary to anything in this article but supplementary thereto.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § II(1); Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-57. - Residential service.
(a)
All residential, including but not limited to single-family residences, multi-family dwellings and mobile home parks in the unincorporated portions of the county are required to utilize the solid waste collection service of the county for the disposition of all municipal solid waste generated by such residences which shall be collected once a week. All other refuse, except hazardous refuse, shall be taken to the county transfer station by the residence producing the other refuse or otherwise managed and disposed of, all in conformity with applicable laws.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary and consistent with the provisions of O.C.G.A. § 12-8-30.10, any individual may dispose of solid waste originating from his own residence onto land or facilities owned by him when disposal of such waste does not thereby adversely affect the public health and is in accordance with applicable laws. However, the sanitation fee provided for in this article must be paid.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § II(2); Ord. of 9-18-07)
Sec. 54-58. - Receptacles and containers required.
modified
Every person in possession, charge or control of any ("covered unit") upon which municipal solid waste is accumulated or produced shall be provided a container by the county, or contractor of the county, for the deposit of municipal solid waste generated at such covered unit. In the event one container is not sufficient for the needs of the covered unit, an additional container may be obtained at the cost of the user. The fee per container will be set by the rate schedule adjusted from time to time by the board of commissioners. The container shall be kept in a suitable place readily accessible to the solid waste collection crews of the county or its contractors and designees, as the case may be, for the storage of all such municipal solid waste that will normally accumulate between the established collection dates. The CA or designee shall determine the type, size, specifications, number and location of the receptacles and shall determine whether the receptacles and containers are in a serviceable condition. The CA or designee shall determine the number and type of receptacles required for each covered unit based on the nature of the covered unit and the number of residents or occupants of each covered unit.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § II(3); Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-59. - Receptacles and containers to be safe.
modified
All receptacles and containers shall be maintained in good serviceable condition at all times. Any receptacle or container that does not conform to the requirements of this article or to the rules and regulations of the CA, or which has ragged or sharp edges or other defects likely to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents therefrom or the public generally, shall be replaced by the county or county contractor.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § II(4); Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-60. - Fees.
modified
(a)
Each covered unit shall pay a fee as set forth in the schedule of fees and charges.
(b)
The property owner of any multi-family dwelling, or any mobile home park, shall be responsible for the payment of the residential sanitation fee that is due to the county. The number and type of containers required at each multi-family dwelling shall be determined by the county administrator or his/her designee.
(c)
A property owner may file an appeal through the board of commissioners' office by completing a garbage collection fee appeal form which will be reviewed pursuant to rules established by the county board of commissioners. The filing of the appeal does not waive the requirement to pay the fees until the commission approves such exemption pursuant to the rules established by the commission.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § II(5); Amd. of 6-8-99; Res. of 1-16-01; Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-61. - Enforcement.
modified
(a)
Generally. It is the principal objective of this article to attain a clean, healthy, safe and litter-free community. Enforcement procedures shall be utilized only where other means fail.
(b)
Solid waste management plans. A solid waste management plan must be submitted with every application for a building permit. The inspection department shall obtain the approval of the CA of the solid waste management plan. The management plan submitted shall be consistent with the county's management plan as approved by the state.
(c)
Monitoring by employees. Solid waste collection employees and contractors, inspection department employees, and other county employees shall be alert to observe violations of the provisions of this article, including but without limitation loose trash and garbage, waste, litter, containers not in compliance, or any other thing or matter which may be in violation of this article or the rules and regulations. An employee observing such violations shall report the violation to his supervisor, who in turn shall cause the information to be conveyed to the CA for required action.
(d)
Collection of sanitation fees. The fees due the county shall be paid promptly annually as part of the property owner's taxes and if not paid in a timely manner shall be collected by the county through any lawful means. Also, the nonpayment of the fees provided for in this article shall constitute a lien against the real and personal property of the person or legal entity responsible for the payment of the fees.
(e)
Penalty for violation. The violation of any provision of this article, or of the rules and regulations of the CA promulgated under this article, or the failure to do any act or meet any standard required by this article, or the failure to comply in any way with any requirement of this article or the rules and regulations, shall constitute an offense triable in the magistrate court of the county, and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 or imprisonment for 60 days or both as provided in O.C.G.A. § 36-1-20. Further, whenever any waste is placed next to the container in violation of this ordinance, a fine shall be assessed against the property owner in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(f)
Prima facie case. Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle, boat, airplane, wagon, wheelbarrow, or other conveyance in violation of this article or the rules and regulations promulgated by the CA under this article, it shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of the conveyance has violated this article.
(g)
Presumption. Whenever any litter which is dumped, deposited, thrown, or left on public or private property in violation of this article or of the rules and regulations promulgated by the CA under this article is discovered to contain any article or articles, including but not limited to letters, bills, publications or other writings that display the name of the person thereon in such manner as to indicate that the article belongs or belonged to such person, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that such person has violated this article. Further, whenever any waste is placed in the area designated for collection of solid waste by the county or county contractor, and that waste is not placed in a container provided by the county or county contractor, its shall be a rebuttable presumption that the property owner placed the waste for collection, and fees and fines shall be assessed against the property owner, as appropriate and authorized by this chapter.
(h)
Specific penalties cumulative. Where any section of this article contains specific remedies or punishments, the specific remedies or punishments shall not be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other remedies and punishments provided in this article or otherwise provided by law for the violation of or noncompliance with this article of the rules and regulations of the CA.
(i)
Additional penalties. In addition to all punishments and penalties provided in this article or otherwise by law, the Sumter County Magistrate Court may impose the following additional or alternative sentences, either as a direct sentence, or as a condition to probation:
(1)
The court may direct the convicted person to pick up and remove from any public street or highway or public right-of-way any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone else prior to the date of the execution of the sentence; or
(2)
The court may direct the convicted person to pick up and remove from any public park, or, with the prior permission of the legal owner or tenant in lawful possession of such property, any private property or private right of way upon which it can be established by any competent evidence that the person has deposited litter, any and all litter deposited thereon by anyone prior to the date of the execution of the sentence.
(j)
Action in emergencies. Nothing contained in the foregoing subsections of this section or elsewhere in this article shall require intermediate measures where the violation is of such nature or degree as to constitute an immediate, clear and present danger to the health and safety of the public. The failure to take the steps provided in this article shall not constitute a defense to any proceeding to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VIII; Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-61.1. - Appeals.
modified
Appeals must be filed with the Sumter County Tax Commissioner's Office within 45 days of the property owner receiving his or her tax bill with includes the solid waste fee. The appeal must be in writing on an approved appeal form which can be obtained from the tax commissioner's office. The appeal must set forth in detail the reason the property owner believes that the solid waste fee is not owed or has been incorrectly assessed to the property owner. If the property owner wishes to present oral argument, the property owner, in his or her appeal, must request to argue the appeal before the Sumter County Board of Commissioners. A date will be set to hear argument within 45 days of filing the appeal with the tax commissioner, or at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners, but in no event will an argument be scheduled any sooner than 30 days from the filing of the appeal.
All appeals will be reviewed as they are brought to the county's attention. The county shall have up to 45 days to determine if the relief sought in the appeal shall be granted. A written response giving notification to the property owner of the county's appeal decision will be provided within the stated timeframe.
After receiving the county's decision, any other and further appeals by the property owner must be properly filed with the Sumter County Superior Court.
(Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-62. - Nonrepealer.
modified
This article is not intended to repeal or modify in any way any other ordinance of the county relating to the abatement of or punishment for nuisances, junk or other matters affecting the health and safety of the public. All remedies provided in this article are supplemental to and in addition to all other remedies provided by the codes and ordinances of the county and by state laws.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § IX; Ord. of 9-18-07; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Secs. 54-63—54-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - COLLECTION

Sec. 54-86. - Precollection practices.
modified
The following practices and procedures shall be followed by persons in the unincorporated areas of the county in order to facilitate the collection of solid waste:
(1)
Refuse. All refuse shall be managed by such persons in accordance with applicable laws, and all municipal solid waste shall be placed and maintained in containers satisfying the requirements of this article and of the rules and regulations of the CA. Containers shall be maintained at all times with tightfitting lids or covers, and secured in such manner as to prevent the overturning by the elements or by dogs or other animals. All refuse to be collected by the county's contractor shall be placed in containers provided by the county or the county contractor or designee.
(2)
Garbage. Garbage placed in containers for collection shall be enclosed in paper or plastic bags. Garbage shall be drained of all liquids prior to placement in refuse receptacles.
(3)
Injurious trash items. Municipal solid waste or refuse brought to the county transfer station with potential for inflicting injury, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp pieces of metal, fluorescent tubes, and television tubes shall be securely packaged or wrapped in such a manner as will prevent injury to the collection crews or other persons. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to material placed in mechanically handled containers.
(4)
Hazardous waste. Hazardous waste will not be collected by the county or county contractor. No person shall place any hazardous waste in any refuse receptacle or other container for collection and shall not haul or deliver any hazardous waste to the county transfer station. All applicable laws relating to the generation, management, handling, treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous waste shall be observed by all persons, and the county reserves the right to report any discovered or known violations of such laws to the appropriate state, federal or local authorities.
(5)
Building materials and construction debris. Building materials and construction debris will not be collected by the county. The owner of the premises or the contractor, builder or person doing the repairs, remodeling construction or demolition shall be required to haul and transfer the debris to the county transfer station or other waste disposal site.
(6)
Tree and vegetable removal; home occupants. Trees cut by the owner or occupant shall be taken to the transfer station by the owner or other waste disposal site. When a tree is cut from private property by anyone other than the owner, such party shall remove and legally dispose of all wood and limbs. The owner, tenant or other persons in possession of the property shall be responsible to see that such tree trimmer or other person outlined above complies with this provision.
(7)
Other yard debris. Grass clippings, leaves, pine straw and/or pine cones shall only be placed for collection at the shoulder of the road if the homeowner has arranged for the pickup of yard debris by the county's contractor at the homeowner's expense. Any yard debris to be collected shall be prepared for collection in accordance with the contractor's instructions. Failure to arrange for collection and failure to comply with the contractor's instructions shall be a violation of this ordinance.
(8)
Ashes. It shall be unlawful to deposit hot ashes in garbage containers. Ashes or clinkers shall not be placed or deposited upon streets, sidewalks or side parks.
(9)
Pet litter. Pet litter must be placed in securely tied plastic bags not to exceed ten pounds in weight and placed in the container.
(10)
Household furniture, furnishings, and appliances. The county or county contractor will collect large appliances, tables, couches, chairs, and other forms of brown and white goods generated from single and multi-family residential dwelling units provided the residents contact the county or county contractor in advance to make arrangements for a large item pick up in accordance with the provisions of the county's solid waste contract. All brown and white goods must be disposed of as instructed by the county or contractor. Failure to comply with the county's or contractor's instructions shall be considered a violation of this article.
(11)
Disposable diapers. Disposable diapers must be placed and tied securely in plastic bags and placed in the regular container.
(12)
Rock, dirt, and similar materials. The county or county contractor shall not be responsible for collection of discarded dirt, rock or any other natural materials.
(13)
Tires. The owner or occupant of any premises shall be responsible for the sanitary handling and lawful disposing of all scrap tires on the premises used or occupied by such person.
(14)
Industrial and animal waste. Industrial waste, any and all dead animals, or waste from construction, demolition, landscaping or processing operations will not be collected, transported or disposed of by the county or county contractor. The collection, transportation and disposal of such waste shall be the responsibility of the owners and/or generators of such waste or animals.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § III; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-87. - Collection practices.
modified
(a)
Residential. Garbage accumulated by residents shall be stored in refuse containers provided by the county or county contractor and shall be placed at such locations convenient for servicing by the county as designated by the CA or designee for weekly pickup. Service for disabled citizens will be handled through appropriate accommodations arranged through the CA or designee.
(b)
Commercial. Refuse accumulated by commercial establishments shall be stored in containers meeting the requirements of the CA as to size, shape and materials; and such receptacles shall be compatible with the collection equipment and methods of the county or county contractor.
(c)
Issuance of permits. The building inspector of the county shall not issue a building permit for industrial establishments, commercial establishments or multi-family dwellings until the CA gives his approval to proposed plans for the storage, disposal and other management of refuse, and until the applicant for a permit has submitted proof that all the applicant's taxes and fees due the county are paid and are current. The term, "applicant's taxes and fees" includes any and all taxes and fees on property that the applicant has an interest in or is responsible for managing.
(d)
Locations of containers. The county or county contractor will not collect municipal solid waste from commercial establishments or multi-family dwellings unless the municipal solid waste is placed in approved containers and located at a place approved by the CA.
(e)
Multi-family units. All multi-family dwellings served by the county or county contractor shall be containerized with plastic or metal containers furnished by the county or county contractor. Each multi-family dwelling shall utilize the type and number of containers assigned by the CA or designee in accordance with sections 54-58 and 54-60.
(f)
Containerizing trash. All commercial establishments shall containerize all refuse generated by the establishment, including outside as well as inside debris from the premises.
(g)
Transfer station. All industrial waste, building material, roofing material, material from remodeling and demolition that is hauled and taken to the transfer station in accordance with this article shall be hauled and taken by the owner or by the person responsible to the owner for the removal of such material in compliance with applicable laws.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § IV; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-88. - Wheeled garbage containers.
modified
(a)
Inspections. Where a wheeled garbage container is furnished by the county, it shall be the only container authorized for garbage collection and shall be subject to inspection by the county. Should additional containers be needed, they may be obtained for a fee by contacting the CA.
(b)
Placing for collection. The owner, occupant, tenant, or other person occupying any building, house or structure within the unincorporated areas of the county as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container shall have the container at the curb or designated location not earlier than 7:00 p.m. on the day before and not later than 7:00 a.m. on the designated garbage pickup days.
(c)
Removal after collection. The owners, occupant, tenant, or other person occupying any building, house or structure within the unincorporated areas of the county as a residence or business using a wheeled garbage container for curb side service shall return the container to the side or rear of building no later than 24 hours after collection. Where the collection point is located more than 100 yards from a home, the container may be stored at another location approved by the CA.
(d)
Vacating dwelling. Wheeled garbage containers furnished by the county shall not be removed from the premises to which they are delivered.
(e)
Loss or damage to container. If the wheeled container furnished by the county is damaged, lost, or destroyed through negligence of the person to whom the container was assigned, the person shall reimburse the county for the cost of a replacement container.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § V; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-89. - Commercial establishments.
(a)
Generally. Commercial establishments shall store refuse in containers meeting the requirements of applicable laws, including but not limited to this article and the rules and regulations promulgated by the CA in part to eliminate wind-driven debris and unsightly litter in and about the establishment. Any spillage or overflow shall be cleaned up immediately by the establishment.
(b)
Loading and unloading areas. All loading and unloading areas shall be provided with appropriate refuse receptacles for loose debris, paper, packaging materials and other trash and refuse. The owner or occupant of the commercial establishment shall place a sufficient number of containers, not less than the number required by the rules and regulations adopted by the board of commissioners for that establishment, in the area to maintain a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. The occupant of the premises shall maintain surveillance to ensure that all refuse is placed in the proper container in compliance with applicable laws, including but not limited to this article, and that the area is kept clean and free of litter.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VI; Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Secs. 54-90—54-110. - Reserved.
DIVISION 4. - PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES

Sec. 54-111. - Generally.
The activities specified in this division are hereby declared to be unlawful and in violation of this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII (preamble))
Sec. 54-112. - Public streets and private property.
No person shall place any litter, refuse, garbage or trash in any street, median strip, alley or other public place of travel, nor upon any other public property, nor upon any private property except with the written consent of the owner or occupant thereof, and then only in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(1))
Sec. 54-113. - Blockage of drainage.
No person shall place any litter, refuse, trash, trees, grass, refuse receptacles, containers, or garbage on, over, or so close to any drainage culvert, manhole or ditch as to cause such material to interfere in any way with the proper and efficient drainage.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(2))
Sec. 54-114. - Appliances.
modified
No person shall leave outside any building in a place accessible to children any appliance, refrigerator or other container that has an airtight snap lock or similar device without first removing the door. This section shall not apply to any appliance, refrigerator, or container that has been placed on or adjacent to the rear of the building and that has been crated, strapped, or locked so that it will be impossible for a child to obtain access to any compartment thereof. Appliances shall be disposed of in accordance with sections 54-86 and 54-87.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(3); Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-115. - Vacant units, lots and rental units.
modified
No owner or occupant of any property in the unincorporated areas of the county shall allow litter, garbage, refuse, rubbish, filth, debris, building material, household trash, or yard trimmings to accumulate on his property. The county will not remove such accumulation from the property. If any owner, occupant or other person responsible for the existence of any of those conditions shall fail to remedy the conditions within seven days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, after notice, the conditions shall be a violation of this article and abatable as a nuisance.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(4); Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Sec. 54-116. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner thereof shall disturb or interfere with any container used for the purpose of storing refuse pending its collection, or remove any contents therefrom or remove such container from its location.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(5))
Sec. 54-117. - Scattering of refuse and littering prohibited.
No person shall:
(1)
Throw or deposit any refuse on any public or private street or scatter such refuse or litter on any public or private property.
(2)
Throw or deposit any refuse, trash or debris in any marsh area, stream, drainage ditch, body of water or beach area.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(6))
Sec. 54-118. - Securing loads on vehicles.
(a)
No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public road in the unincorporated areas of the county unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded or covered in such a manner so as to prevent any of its load from blowing out, dropping, escaping, or shifting in such a manner as to:
(1)
Create a safety hazard; or
(2)
Deposit litter, rubbish, junk, trash or debris on public or private property.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the necessary spreading of any substance in public road maintenance.
(b)
No person shall load any vehicle, which is to be operated on any public road in the unincorporated areas of this county, unless such load is fully covered and the covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent said covering or load from:
(1)
Becoming loose, detached, or in any manner becoming a hazard to other users of the public road; or
(2)
Depositing litter, rubbish, junk, trash or debris on public or private property while such vehicle is on a public road.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any federal or state laws or regulations applying to the securing of loads on motor vehicles.
(d)
The provisions of this section and regulations based thereon shall not apply to organic debris that escapes during the transportation of silage from field or farm to storage and storage to feedlot or during the transportation of agricultural or farm products or silvicultural products from farm or forest to a processing plant or point of sale or use.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(7); Ord. of 12-20-2011)
Sec. 54-119. - Unlawful dumping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, drop, dump or otherwise leave any litter on the premises of another without the consent of such other person, and without complying with applicable laws, including but not limited to this article and the rules and regulations of the CA adopted pursuant to this article.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(8); Ord. of 11-13-18(3), § 1)
Sec. 54-120. - Other unlawful activities.
modified
It shall be unlawful and in violation of this ordinance to dump, place or leave bricks, blocks, rocks, lumber, asphalt, cement, concrete, concrete products or waste, roofing, sheetrock, leaves, limbs, bushes, trees, roots, dead animals, appliances, equipment, bed springs, mattresses, furniture, fixtures, motors, engines, chemical wastes, industrial or commercial supplies, and inorganic solid material of any type or kind except as authorized in sections 54-86 and 54-87 in any garbage or solid waste collection area or in any collection container; provided however, that certain of the above unacceptable items may be received at solid waste collection sites as designated by the CA or designee and pursuant to regulations regarding the use of said sites as may be promulgated by county officials.
(Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Editor's note— An ordinance adopted September 20, 2022, added § 54-120 and renumbered the remaining sections, 54-120—54-122, as 54-121—54-123.
Sec. 54-121. - Ownership of refuse.
modified
All refuse, including refuse deposited in refuse containers provided by the county, shall be and shall remain the property of the owner or occupant. The county has no responsibility or liability for any injuries or damage resulting from the refuse or any environmental liability related to the collection, transfer, or disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. of 5-14-96, § VII(9); Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Note— Formerly, § 54-120.
Sec. 54-122. - Disposal fees.
modified
Fees specified in exhibit "A," relating to commercial rates, and exhibit "B," relating to residential collection, hauling and disposal fees, are given in the schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Editor's note— Exhibits A and B can be viewed at the county clerk's office. Formerly, § 54-121.
Sec. 54-123. - Violation; penalty.
new
Upon finding of guilt for the violation of this section, the offender shall be subject to imprisonment for a term not to exceeding six months or by fine not exceeding $1,000.00, or both.
(Ord. of 12-20-2011; Ord. of 9-20-22, § 1)
Note— Formerly, § 54-122.
