Chapter 40 - HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 40-1—40-25. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RULES AND REGULATIONS OF COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH

Sec. 40-26. - Adoption.
There are currently in existence certain rules and regulations adopted by the Mitchell County Board of Health with the purpose of preserving the public health, safety, and welfare of citizens of Mitchell County, Georgia. This article specifically incorporates by reference the provision of the following rules and regulations which are in force at the time of the adoption of this article:
(1)
Rules and regulations pertaining to rabies control (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-2-7 and "Rule II—Rabies Control Ordinance" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to rabies control;
(2)
Rules and regulations pertaining to food service (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-1 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to food service;
(3)
Rules and regulations pertaining to tourist accommodations (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-6-2 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to tourist accommodations;
(4)
Rules and regulations for on-site sewage management systems (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-1 and "Rule III—Addendum to Onsite Sewage Management Systems and Subdivisions - Rules and Regulations, DPH Chapter 511-3-1, and Onsite Water Supplies Rules and Regulations" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to on-site sewage management systems;
(5)
Rules and regulations for portable sanitation contractors (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-6 and as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to portable sanitation contractors;
(6)
Rules and regulations pertaining to drinking water supply (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-3 "Rule III—Addendum to Onsite Sewage Management Systems and Subdivisions - Rules and Regulations, DPH Chapter 511-3-1, and Onsite Water Supplies Rules and Regulations" as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to drinking water supply;
(7)
Rules and regulations pertaining to solid waste (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-4 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to solid waste;
(8)
Rules and regulations pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being Chapter 511-3-5 as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to public swimming pools, spas, and recreational water parks;
(9)
Rules and regulations pertaining to body art (adopted by the department of public health and the Mitchell County Board of Health and being "Rules and Regulations of Mitchell County Body Art Studios and Tattoo/Body Piercing Artists", as subsequently amended and updated), and policies of the Mitchell County Board of Health pertaining to body art.
( Ord. No. 2019-002 , § I, 4-9-2019)
Sec. 40-27. - Delegation of duties of implementation.
The duty of implementation and enforcement of these regulations rest with the Mitchell County Board of Commissioners, and by virtue of this article is hereby expressly delegated to the Mitchell County Board of Health who is hereby charged with promulgation of sufficient procedures for insuring compliance with these rules and regulations by the citizens of Mitchell County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Mitchell County. The Mitchell County Board of Health is directed to implement procedures which will insure that the citizens of Mitchell County or those individuals found within the boundaries of Mitchell County will receive all procedural rights to which they are entitled under the laws of the State of Georgia.
( Ord. No. 2019-002 , § II, 4-9-2019)
Sec. 40-28. - Enforcement.
Any violation of the rules and regulations hereby referenced shall be a violation of this article and shall be a misdemeanor offense. Any violator shall be subject to the imposition of a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 60 days. Any failure of payment of inspection fees listed within the fee schedule adopted by Mitchell County Board of Health and approved the Mitchell County Board of Commissioners within 60 days of first notice, may result in suspension of permit.
( Ord. No. 2019-002 , § III, 4-9-2019)
