ARTICLE II. - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT[2]
Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
State Law reference— Municipal authority to restrict location of certain adult related businesses, O.C.G.A. § 36-60-3.

DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 10-53. - Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to regulate certain types of businesses, including, but not limited to, adult dancing establishments and adult entertainment establishments to the end that the many types of criminal activities frequently engendered by such businesses will be curtailed. However, it is recognized that such regulation cannot de facto approach prohibition. Otherwise a protected form of expression would vanish. As to adult dancing establishments and adult entertainment establishments, this article represents a balancing of competing interests: reduced criminal activity and protection of the neighborhoods through the regulation of adult dancing establishments versus the protected rights of these establishments and their patrons.
(Code 1985, § 6-93; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 1)
Sec. 10-54. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Adult bookstore means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines or other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising 20 percent or more of its net sales consisting of printed material which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult dancing establishment means a business that features live dancers for the entertainment of the establishment's patrons.
Adult entertainment establishment means any business or establishment which offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, including, but not limited to, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters, adult hotels or motels, adult motion picture arcades, adult bookstores, adult video stores, encounter centers, rap establishments, escort bureaus and introduction services, as hereinafter defined.
Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel wherein material is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult mini motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult motion picture arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons, used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
Adult video store means an establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, video tapes or movies or other reproductions, whether for sale or rent, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section, comprising five percent or more of its total floor space, devoted to the sale or display of such material or which derives more than five percent of its net sales from videos which are characterized or distinguished or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Appropriate attire means opaque clothing fully covering:
(1)
The human male or female genitals, pubic area and buttocks; and
(2)
The entire nipple of the female breasts.
Crime involving moral character means any drug- or alcohol-related crime or any sex-related crime or any felony.
Encounter center orrap establishment means any business, agency or person who, for any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where two or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for the primary purpose of engaging in, describing or discussing specified sexual activities, or exposing specified anatomical areas.
Escort bureau; introduction service means any business, agency or person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward or profit furnishes or offers to furnish names or persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any private quarters.
Good moral character means a person is of good moral character, according to this article, if that person has not been convicted of a drug- or alcohol-related crime or sex-related crime or any felony in the past five years.
Minor means any person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
Specified anatomical areas means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
(2)
Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
(1)
Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral or anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
(2)
Clearly depicting human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
(3)
Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast;
(4)
Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the inflicting of pain; or
(5)
Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexual contact with an animal by a human being.
(Code 1985, § 6-94; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 2)
Sec. 10-55. - Unlawful operation declared nuisance.
Any adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment operated, conducted or maintained contrary to the provisions of this article shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The city may, in addition to, or in lieu of prosecuting a criminal action hereunder, commence an action, proceeding for abatement, removal or enjoinment thereof, in the manner provided by law. It shall take such other steps and shall apply to such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment and restrain and enjoin any person from operating, conducting or maintaining an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment contrary to the provisions of this article. In addition, violation of the provisions of this article shall be per se grounds for suspension or revocation of a license granted hereunder.
(Code 1985, § 6-109.3; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 21)
Sec. 10-56. - Violation penalty.
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00 per violation or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such fine or imprisonment, violation of this article shall also be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of the license issued hereunder.
(Code 1985, § 6-109.2; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 20)
Secs. 10-57—10-85. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - LICENSING

Sec. 10-86. - License required.
It is unlawful for any person, association, partnership or corporation to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or upon any premises within the city of an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment defined in this article, without a license to do so. No license so issued shall condone or make legal any activity thereunder if the same is deemed illegal or unlawful under state or federal law.
(Code 1985, § 6-97; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 5)
Sec. 10-87. - Location restrictions.
No adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment shall be located:
(1)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land which is zoned or used for multifamily or single-family uses or purposes.
(2)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which a church, school, governmental building, library, civic center, neighborhood public park or neighborhood playground is located.
(3)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which another establishment regulated or defined hereunder is located.
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of any parcel of land upon which any other establishment selling alcoholic beverages is located.
For the purposes of this section, distance shall be by a direct line of measurement from property line to property line, using the closest property lines of the parcels of land involved. The term "parcel of land" means any quantity of land in any warranty deed, limited or general, or any quitclaim deed recorded in the deed records of Cobb County or Douglas County.
(Code 1985, § 6-98; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 6)
Sec. 10-88. - Application for license.
(a)
Any person, association, partnership or corporation desiring to obtain a license to operate, engage in, conduct or carry on any adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment shall make application to the community affairs department. Prior to submitting such application, a nonrefundable fee, as provided in the fee schedule of the issuing department, shall be paid to the city to defray, in part, the cost of investigation and report required by this division. The community affairs department shall issue a receipt showing that such application fee has been paid. The receipt, or a copy thereof, shall be supplied at the time such application is submitted.
(b)
The application for license does not authorize the engaging in, operation of or carrying on of any adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1985, § 6-100; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 8)
Sec. 10-89. - Application contents.
Each application for an adult dancing establishment license or adult entertainment establishment license shall contain the following information:
(1)
The applicant's full true name and any other names used by applicant, including any trade names.
(2)
The present address and telephone number of the applicant.
(3)
Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least 21 years of age.
(4)
Business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of application, including the business or employment records of the applicant, partners in a partnership, directors and officers of a corporation.
(5)
The business license history of the applicant and whether such applicant, in previous operations in this or any other city, state or territory under any governmental license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation.
(6)
If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter, together with the place and date of incorporation, and the names and addresses of each of its current officers and directors and stockholders. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall set forth the name, residence address and dates of birth of the partners. If the applicant is a limited partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certification of limited partnership filed with the county clerk or secretary of state. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to corporations shall apply. The applicant corporation or partnership shall designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all application forms required of an individual applicant under this division, but only one application fee shall be charged.
(7)
If the applicant, or any of its partners, limited partners, officers, directors, or stockholders (if the applicant or any partner of the applicant is a corporation which has 20 or fewer stockholders), have been convicted of any crime involving moral character in the past five years and, if so, a complete description of any such crime including date of violation, date of conviction, jurisdiction and any disposition, including any fine or sentence imposed and whether the terms of disposition have been fully completed.
(8)
If the applicant is a person doing business under a trade name, a copy of the trade name properly recorded. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of authority to do business in the state, including articles of incorporation, trade name affidavit, if any, last annual report, if any.
(9)
At least three character references from individuals who are in no way related to the applicant or individual shareholders, officers or directors of the applicant and who are not or will not benefit financially in any way from the application if the license is granted and who have not been convicted of any crime involving moral character. The licensing officer shall prepare forms consistent with the provisions of this subsection for the applicant who shall submit all character references on such forms.
(10)
Address of the premises to be licensed.
(11)
Whether the premises are owned or rented.
(12)
A plat by a registered engineer, licensed by the state, showing the location of the proposed premises in relation to the neighborhood, the surrounding zoning, its proximity to any church, school, public park, governmental building or site, or other business hereunder regulated.
(13)
Each applicant for an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license shall be verified and acknowledged under oath to be true and correct by:
a.
If the applicant is an individual, the individual;
b.
If by a partnership, by a general partner;
c.
If a corporation, by the president of the corporation;
d.
If any other organization or association, by the chief administrative official.
(Code 1985, § 6-101; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 9)
Sec. 10-90. - Applicant to appear.
The applicant, if an individual, or designated responsible managing officer, if a partnership or corporation, shall personally appear at a public hearing before the city council.
(Code 1985, § 6-102; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 10)
Sec. 10-91. - Application; investigation.
The city shall have 15 days to investigate the application and the background of the applicant. Upon completion of the investigation, the mayor and council may grant the license if it finds:
(1)
The required fee has been paid;
(2)
The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this division;
(3)
The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation in the application;
(4)
The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of his application;
(5)
The applicant, or any of its partners, limited partners, officers, directors or stockholders (if the applicant or any partner of the applicant is a corporation which has 20 or fewer stockholders), has not been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of an offense involving a sex-, drug- or alcohol-related crime or any felony or convicted of an attempt to commit any of the above-mentioned offenses, or convicted in any state of any offense which if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as one or more of the above-mentioned offenses;
(6)
Applicant has not had an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license or other similar license or permit denied or revoked for cause in this city or any other city located in or out of this state prior to the date of application;
(7)
The building, structure, equipment, or location of such business, as proposed by applicant, would comply with all applicable zoning and distance laws;
(8)
The applicant is at least 21 years of age;
(9)
That the applicant, his employees, agents, partners, directors, officers, or managers have not, within five years of the date of the application, knowingly allowed or permitted any of the specified sexual activities, as defined herein, to be committed or allowed in or upon the premises where such adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment is to be located, or to be used as a place in which solicitations for the specified sexual activities as defined herein have occurred;
(10)
That on the date the business for which a license is required herein commences, and thereafter, there will be a responsible person on the premises to act as manager at all times during which the business is open;
(11)
That the grant of such license will not cause a violation of this or any other ordinance or regulation of the city, state, or the United States.
(Code 1985, § 6-103; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 11)
Sec. 10-92. - Persons prohibited as licensees.
No license provided for by this division shall be issued to or held by:
(1)
An applicant who has not paid all required fees and taxes to the city.
(2)
Any person who is not of good moral character.
(3)
Any corporation, any of whose directors, officers and stockholders (if such corporation has 20 or fewer stockholders) are not of good moral character.
(4)
Any partnership or association, any of whose partners (general or limited) or members or stockholders (if any partner or member of such partnership or association is a corporation which has 20 or fewer stockholders) are not of good moral character.
(5)
Any applicant who is not qualified to hold and conduct business according to the laws of the United States, state or city.
(Code 1985, § 6-104; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 12)
Sec. 10-93. - License refusal.
If the city, following investigation of the applicant, deems that the applicant does not fulfill the requirements as set forth in this division, it shall notify the community affairs department of such opinion and, within 15 days from the date of application, provide copies of the investigation report to the community affairs department. The community affairs department shall, within ten days, notify the applicant by certified mail of such denial.
(Code 1985, § 6-105; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 13)
Sec. 10-94. - Appeal to city council.
Denial of license issuance or renewal may be appealed to the city council. When an appeal hearing is placed on the council agenda, the council shall set a hearing date and instruct the community affairs department to give the appealing party at least ten days' written notice of such a hearing. At such hearing, the council shall receive all relevant testimony and evidence from the appealing party, from interested parties and from city staff. The council may sustain, overrule or modify the action complained of. The action of the council shall be final.
(Code 1985, §§ 6-109, 6-109.1; Ord. of 2-6-1995, §§ 17, 19)
Sec. 10-95. - License renewal.
Licenses for adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishments may be renewed on a year-to-year basis, provided that the licensees continue to meet the requirements set out in this division. The renewal fee for the adult entertainment establishment licenses and adult dancing establishment licenses shall be as provided in the fee schedule of the issuing department.
(Code 1985, § 6-106; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 14)
Sec. 10-96. - Licenses nontransferable.
No adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license may be sold, transferred or assigned by a licensee, or by operation of law, to any other person. Any such sale, transfer or assignment, or attempted sale, transfer or assignment, shall be deemed to constitute a voluntary surrender of such license and such license shall thereafter be null and void; provided and excepting, however, that if the licensee is a partnership and one or more of the partners should die, one or more of the surviving partners may acquire, by purchase or otherwise, the interest of the deceased partner without effecting a surrender or termination of such license. An adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license issued to a corporation shall be deemed terminated and void when either any outstanding stock of the corporation is sold, transferred or assigned after the issuance of a license, or any stock authorized but not issued at the time of the granting of license is thereafter issued and sold, transferred or assigned; provided and excepting, however, that if a stockholder dies, one or more of the remaining stockholders may acquire the interest of the deceased stockholder without effecting a surrender or termination of such license.
(Code 1985, § 6-107; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 15)
Sec. 10-97. - Change of location or name.
(a)
No adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment shall move from the location specified on its license until a change of location fee in the amount of $500.00 has been deposited with the city, and approval has been obtained from the community affairs director. Such approval shall not be given unless all requirements and regulations, as contained in this Code, have been met.
(b)
No licensee shall operate, conduct, manage, engage in, or carry on an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment under any name other than his name and the name of the business as specified on his license.
(c)
Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other place of business where an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment is located shall require inspection and shall comply with the provisions and regulations of this division.
(Code 1985, § 6-108; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 16)
Sec. 10-98. - Grounds for revocation.
(a)
It shall be grounds for revocation of an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license if the applicant is convicted of committing an offense that would have prevented an issuance of the original license under this division.
(b)
It shall also be grounds for revocation if the applicant or applicant's agents or employees knowingly allow any criminal offense to occur on the licensed premises. Criminal offenses shall include any violation of the city ordinance or criminal laws of the state.
(c)
It shall also be grounds for revocation if the person, corporation, partnership or association possessing an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license fails to pay any fee or fines required by this division.
(d)
It shall also be grounds for revocation if the licensee fails to pay when due all ad valorem taxes assessed against the licensee or if the ad valorem real property taxes assessed against the property upon which the licensee operates its business are not paid when due.
(e)
It shall also be grounds for revocation if the licensee or any employee of a licensee violates any provision of this division.
(Code 1985, § 6-109.4; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 22)
Sec. 10-99. - Revocation hearing.
No license issued under this division may be revoked, except as provided herein and only after a hearing before the city council, for the city, upon a prior written notice to the licensee of the time, place and purpose of such hearing and a general statement of the reason the license would be revoked. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be deemed reasonable.
(Code 1985, § 6-109.5; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 23)
Sec. 10-100. - Judicial appeal.
Any decision of the city council in the revocation of an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment license may be appealed to the Cobb County superior court for review.
(Code 1985, § 6-109.6; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 24)
Secs. 10-101—10-128. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 10-129. - Adult dancing establishment regulations.
(a)
No person shall advertise, or cause to be advertised, operate or cause to be operated an adult dancing establishment without a valid adult entertainment license issued pursuant to this article.
(b)
No later than March l of each year an adult dancing establishment licensee shall file a verified report with the community affairs department or its designee showing the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to dancers for the preceding calendar year.
(c)
An adult dancing establishment licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of two years the names, addresses, and ages of all persons employed as dancers.
(d)
No adult dancing establishment licensee shall employ or contract with as a dancer or a person under the age of 21 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
(e)
No person under the age of 21 years shall be admitted to an adult dancing establishment.
(f)
An adult dancing establishment shall not be open, except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., Monday through Friday, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:55 p.m. on Saturday.
(g)
No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer. No dancing shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
(h)
No dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any person.
(i)
All dancers must wear appropriate attire when in view of or performing for the establishment's patrons.
(j)
No adult dancing establishment shall allow any of its employees to engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of such establishments, and no employee of an adult dancing establishment shall engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of such establishments.
(k)
No adult dancing establishment shall serve, sell, distribute or suffer the consumption or possession of any intoxicating liquor or controlled substance upon the premises of the licensee.
(Code 1985, § 6-95; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 3)
Sec. 10-130. - Adult entertainment establishment regulations.
(a)
No adult entertainment establishment licensee shall employ or contract with a person under the age of 21 years or a person not licensed pursuant to this article.
(b)
No person under the age of 21 years shall be admitted to an adult entertainment establishment.
(c)
An adult entertainment establishment shall not be opened, except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., Monday through Friday, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:55 p.m. on Saturday.
(d)
No adult entertainment establishment shall allow any of its employees to engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of such establishment, and no employee of an adult entertainment establishment shall engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of such establishment.
(Code 1985, § 6-96; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 4)
Sec. 10-131. - Employee restrictions.
(a)
Qualifications. Employees of an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment shall be not less than 21 years of age. Every employee must be of good moral character as defined in this article. Any employee who is convicted of a sex-related crime, or drug-related or alcohol-related felony while employed in any such establishment or under contract to any such establishment shall not thereafter work on any premises requiring licenses under this article for a period of five years from the date of such conviction, unless a longer time is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The term "convicted" includes an adjudication of guilt on a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
(b)
Approval for employment. Before any person may work on a licensed premises, he shall file a notice with the city police department of his intended employment on forms that require the information set forth in subsection (a) of this section. The city shall have 15 days to investigate the information required by the employee. If the employee is found to meet the qualifications of subsection (a) of this section, the city shall issue the applicant a license under this section. Upon issuance of the license, the employee may begin working on the licensed premises. If approval is denied, the prospective employee may, within ten days of the denial, apply to the city council for a hearing. The city council shall hold a hearing and shall issue such order as is required. An investigation fee as provided in the fee schedule of the issuing department shall accompany the notice of intended employment.
(c)
Suspension, revocation of license. Conviction of violating the provisions of this Code shall subject an employee to suspension or revocation of a license. It shall be grounds for revocation of a license to operate an adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment if the applicant commits an offense which would have prevented an issuance of the original license or if the applicant or applicant's agents, employees or manager knowingly allow any criminal offense to occur on the licensed premises.
(d)
Independent contractors. For the purpose of this article, independent contractors shall be considered as employees and shall be licensed as employees, regardless of the business relationship with the owner or licensee of any adult dancing establishment or adult entertainment establishment.
(Code 1985, § 6-99; Ord. of 2-6-1995, § 7)
Secs. 10-132—10-160. - Reserved.
