Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
The material embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall constitute and be designated as "The Code of Ordinances, City of Austell, Georgia," and may be so cited. This Code may also be referred to by the shortened title: "Austell City Code."
(Code 1985, § 1-1)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the governing body:
City. The term "the city" or "this city" means the City of Austell, Georgia.
City council, council, mayor and council, governing body. Whenever the term "city council," "council," "mayor and council" or "governing body" is used, it means the mayor and council of the city.
Code. The term "Code" means The Code of Ordinances, City of Austell, Georgia, as designated in section 1-1.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" means Cobb County, Georgia, and Douglas County, Georgia, or either of them as applicable.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring a city officer or city employee to do some act, it is to be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act.
Fee schedule. The term "fee schedule" means any one of the lists of fees maintained by the various city departments, as such schedules are amended from time to time.
Gender. A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders also, if the context so permits.
Joint authority. A joint authority given to any number of persons or officers may be executed by a majority of them, unless it is otherwise declared.
May. The term "may" is always directory or permissive and not mandatory.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and words used in the plural shall include the singular number.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which by law an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
O.C.G.A. The abbreviation "O.C.G.A." means the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, as amended.
Officials, officers, etc. Whenever reference is made to officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., by title only (i.e., "mayor," "city clerk," etc.), they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards, commissions, departments, etc., of the city.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read as "and," and the term "and" may be read as "or," if the sense requires it.
Ordinance. The term "ordinance" means a legislative act of the city council of a general and permanent nature.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to firms, partnerships, associations, organizations and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as well as to individuals.
Resolution. The term "resolution" means a legislative act of the city council of a special or temporary character.
Shall. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
Signature, subscription. The terms "signature" and "subscription" include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "the state" or "this state" means the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public streets and ways in the city and shall embrace all parts thereof constituting the designated rights-of-way.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well as the past and present.
Will. The term "will" is construed as being mandatory.
Writing. The term "writing" includes printing.
(Code 1985, § 1-2)
State Law reference— Construction of statutes, O.C.G.A. § 1-3-1 et seq.
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines, history notes, editorial notes and cross references.
(a)
The catchlines of sections of this Code, printed in boldface type, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections including the catchlines are amended or reenacted.
(b)
The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section.
(c)
Editor's notes, cross references, and state law references which appear after sections or subsections of this Code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
(d)
All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections are to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections of this Code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1985, § 1-3)
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, or any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
(Code 1976, § 1-1004; Code 1985, § 1-4)
Sec. 1-5. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code.
(Code 1985, § 1-5)
Sec. 1-6. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
(a)
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed portion may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages.
(b)
Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this Code in substantially the following language: "That section ___ of The Code of Ordinances, City of Austell, Georgia, is hereby amended to read as follows: … (set out new provisions in full)."
(c)
When the governing body desires to enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the Code, which the governing body desires to incorporate into the Code, a section in substantially the following language may be made a part of the ordinance: "Section ___. It is the intention of the governing body and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part of The Code of Ordinances, City of Austell, Georgia, and the sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention."
(d)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this Code desired to be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
(Code 1985, § 1-6)
Sec. 1-7. - Supplementation of Code.
(a)
By contractor or by city personnel, supplements to this Code, including the Charter, shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body. A supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the governing body or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the Code, as well as amendments to the Charter. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
(b)
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
(c)
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances, other than Charter amendments, included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
(1)
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
(2)
Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in such catchlines, headings and titles;
(3)
Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing sections or other subdivision numbers;
(4)
Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or to "sections ___ to ___" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
(5)
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
(Code 1985, § 1-7)
Sec. 1-8. - Certain ordinances not affected by adoption of this Code.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any the following ordinances or portions of ordinances that are intentionally omitted from this Code, which ordinances or portions of ordinances continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this Code:
(1)
Any offense or act committed or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract, established or accruing before the effective date of this Code.
(2)
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
(3)
Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
(4)
Granting any right or franchise.
(5)
Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
(6)
Providing for salaries, employee benefits, and personnel policies and procedures not codified in this Code.
(7)
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan.
(8)
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
(9)
Dedicating, establishing naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.
(10)
Providing for or dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
(11)
Levying, imposing or otherwise relating to taxes not codified in this Code.
(12)
Rezoning selected parcels of property.
(13)
Prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations, prescribing through streets, bus stops, taxi stands, parking prohibitions, parking limitations, one-way traffic, limitations on load of vehicles or loading zones, consistent with this Code.
(14)
Describing or altering the boundaries of the city or annexing property to the city.
(15)
Administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code.
(16)
Agreements and contracts with outside entities or other political subdivisions.
(17)
Legislation that is temporary although general in effect, special although permanent in effect or the purpose of which has been accomplished.
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance, rule, regulation or order of the city any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such Code or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code, or any ordinance, rule, regulation or order, shall be punishable upon conviction, at the discretion of the municipal judge, by a sentence to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six months, and work and labor on the city public works not to exceed 60 days, either or all or any part of either or all.
(b)
The fine schedule adopted by the mayor and city council pursuant to section 4.13(d) of the Charter may provide for increasing punishment, subject to the maximums in this section, for the repeat offenders.
(c)
The maximum punishment in this section shall be applicable only to each offense and may be imposed for each separate offense, including those which are deemed to continue daily until remedied.
(Code 1985, § 1-8; Ord. of 3-2-1998, § 1)
State Law reference— Confinement of ordinance violators, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-8; jurisdiction of court, O.C.G.A. § 36-32-3 et seq.
Sec. 1-10. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change, or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1985, § 1-9)
