ARTICLE VI. - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 6.1. - Continuance of a nonconforming use.
The lawful use of any building or structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of or subsequent amendment to this ordinance may be continued subject to the restrictions contained in this ordinance even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this ordinance except that the nonconforming structure or use shall not be:
1.
Changed to another nonconforming use;
2.
Torn down and rebuilt as a nonconforming use;
3.
Extended or enlarged except in conformity with this ordinance;
4.
Reestablished after vacancy, nonuse or discontinuance for a continuous period of 12 months;
5.
Rebuilt, altered or repaired, except in conformity with this ordinance, after damage exceeding 50 percent of the assessed value of the improvements as determined by the records maintained in the office of the Gordon County Tax Assessor.
Section 6.2. - Annexation.
6.2.1. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the City of Calhoun shall be so annexed in accordance with O.C.G.A. Art. 2, Ch. 36, T. 36 (O.C.G.A. § 36-36-20 et seq.), as amended (the 100 percent method); O.C.G.A. Art. 3, Ch. 36, T. 36 (O.C.G.A. § 36-36-30 et seq.), as amended (the 60 percent method); [or] O.C.G.A. Art. 4, Ch. 36, T. 36 (O.C.G.A. § 36-36-50), as amended (the annexation of unincorporated islands).
6.2.2. Upon the filing of an application for annexation, the landowner shall file an application to amend the zoning map of Calhoun, Georgia for zoning consideration. At any time or after the date notice is provided to the governing authority of Gordon County, Georgia as required under O.C.G.A. § 36-36-6, as amended, the city may begin the procedures required by section 14.2 of the zoning ordinance of the City of Calhoun, Georgia, for the zoning for property to be annexed into the City of Calhoun, Georgia.
6.2.3. Upon completion of the notice requirements and hearings required by section 14.2.2 of the zoning ordinance of the City of Calhoun, Georgia, the zoning classification approved by the mayor and council shall become effective on the later of:
l.
The date the zoning decision is approved by the mayor and council; or
2.
The date the annexation becomes effective pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 36-36-2, as amended.
6.2.4. No building permits, land disturbance or other development permits or utility extensions shall be authorized, granted or constructed upon newly annexed areas until a zoning classification of the newly annexed property has been approved by the mayor and council and all permits mandated by governmental regulatory agencies, to include, but not be limited to, the EPD, state fire marshal, DOT, Army Corps of Engineers, department of labor and department of agriculture, have been granted and received.
Section 6.3. - Off-street automobile parking and storage.
Except in the C-1, central business district, off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established. Such automobile parking or storage space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum requirements for the specific use as set forth below. Each off-street parking space shall be at least eight feet six inches wide and 18 feet deep.
6.3.1. If the required automobile parking or storage space cannot be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the building inspector may permit such space to be provided on other off-street property, provided such space is within 500 feet of such principal use. Such space shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
6.3.2. All off-street automobile parking and storage space in residential districts shall be so arranged that vehicles will not be required to back onto a public street, road, or highway when leaving the premises.
_____
6.3.3. [Minimum requirements.]
EXPAND
Use Classifications Minimum Requirements
Single-family residential structures 1 space for each dwelling unit
Two-family and multifamily residential structures 1½ spaces for each dwelling unit
Room[ing] and boarding houses, hotels 1 space for each 2 rooms
Churches, synagogues, or other place of worship 1 space for each 4 seats in the main assembly room
Fraternal organizations, and other places of public assembly 1 space for each accommodation
Tourist homes, tourist courts, or motels 1 space for each accommodation
Hospitals, nursing homes or similar institutions 1 space for each 2 beds intended for patients, plus 1 space for each 3 employees
Retail businesses 3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of sales floor area
Offices, including banks 3.5 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of total floor area
Filling stations 2 spaces for each gas pump, plus 3 spaces for each grease rack or similar facility
Mortuary or funeral parlor 1 space for each 4 seats in the chapel, 1 additional space for each 2 employees, 1 additional space for each resident family, and 1 additional space for each funeral vehicle
Restaurant or similar eating establishment 1 space for each 4 seats provided for patron use and 1 additional space for each 2 employees
Wholesaling 1 space for each 2 employees
Industrial 1 space for each 2 employees at maximum employment on a single shift
Schools 1 space for each six seats in the main assembly room
  (Ord. No. 798, § 2, 11-8-2004)
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 90-111 et seq.
_____
Section 6.4. - Off-street loading or unloading space.
Every building or structure used for business, trade, or industry shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off the right-of-way of the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to an alley or if there is no alley, to a street. Such space shall have at least 14 feet of vertical clearance. Such space shall be so arranged that no vehicle is required to back onto a public street, road, or highway in order to leave the premises.
6.4.1. Retail business: One space, ten feet by 25 feet, for each 3,000 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
6.4.2. Wholesale and industry: One space, ten feet by 50 feet, for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or any part thereof.
6.4.3. Bus and truck terminals: Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number of buses or trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at the terminal at any one time.
Cross reference— Stopping, standing and parking, § 90-111 et seq.
Section 6.5. - Required buffers.
A buffer area shall be defined as that portion of a lot set aside for one space and/or visual screening purpose, pursuant to applicable provisions of this ordinance, to separate different use districts and/or uses on one property from uses on another property of the same use district or a different use district.
6.5.1. An adequate buffer strip at least 50 feet in width shall be required and maintained between an area zoned R-1, R-1A, or R-1B and any area zoned as R-2, R-2A, R-3, or O-I. Such buffer shall be constructed and/or maintained by the owner of the land zoned R-2, R-2A, R-3, or O-I.
6.5.2. Said buffer area may not be used for any parking or for the erection of any permanent structure thereon except a fence, if desired. However, a buffer area may be used for vehicular access and utility easements and for drainage improvements required by the city based upon competent engineering studies.
6.5.3. Except as provided herein, the natural topography of the land shall be preserved and natural growth shall not be disturbed beyond that which is necessary to prevent a nuisance, or to thin such natural growth where too dense for normal growth, or to remove diseased, misshapen, or dangerous and decayed timbers. However, a slope easement may be cleared and graded where required to prevent soil erosion upon approval of the city building inspector.
6.5.4. An adequate buffer strip of at least 20 feet in width shall be required and maintained between any area zoned commercial, C-1, C-2, or C-N, and any area zoned residential, R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-2, R-2A, R-3, O-I. Such buffer shall be constructed and maintained by the owner of the land zoned as commercial.
6.5.5. Further, the owner of the land zoned as commercial shall also construct a fence along the edge of said required buffer area. Said fence shall be at least six feet in height and shall be constructed of masonry, ventilated redwood, cedar, chainlink fence with natural planting or other similar materials.
6.5.6. Said buffer area may not be used for any parking or for the erection of any permanent structure thereon except the required fence. Said buffer may be used for the construction of drainage improvements required by the city based upon competent engineering studies.
6.5.7. The lawful use of any building or structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of or subsequent amendment to this section may be continued subject to the restrictions contained in this section even though such use does not conform with the provisions of this section except that the nonconforming structure or use shall not be:
1.
Changed to another nonconforming use;
2.
Torn down and rebuilt as a nonconforming use;
3.
Extended or enlarged except in conformity with this section;
4.
Reestablished after vacancy or discontinuance for one year;
5.
Rebuilt, altered, or repaired, except in conformity with this section, after damage exceeding 100 percent of the assessed value of the improvements as determined from the tax records of Gordon County, provided, however, this provision shall not apply to owner-occupied dwellings.
Section 6.6. - Variances.
6.6.1. Where the mayor and council find that strict compliance with the provisions of this ordinance would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, the mayor and council may, upon application from the property owner, grant a variance from the terms of this ordinance so that the spirit and intent of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. Such variance may be granted in such individual cases of unnecessary hardship upon consideration by the mayor and council of the standards for considering zoning decisions as set out in article XIV of the City of Calhoun Zoning Ordinance and finding that one or more of the following conditions exist:
1.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or topography;
2.
The application of this ordinance to the particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship;
3.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved;
4.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of this ordinance, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure that is prohibited by this ordinance.
6.6.2. The procedure by which the mayor and council will consider any request for a variance shall be governed by the provisions of article XIV.
Section 6.7. - Official zoning map.
The official zoning map, as amended February 2005 to contain annexations, zonings and rezonings through January 31, 2005, is adopted, and copies shall be maintained in the office of the city administrator at city hall and the city council chambers at the Depot Community Room, 109 South King Street, Calhoun, Georgia.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 5-10-2004; Ord. No. 800, § 1, 3-28-2005)
