Chapter 38 - COURTS[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Charter reference— Municipal court, art. VI.
Cross reference— Administration, ch. 2; civil emergencies, ch. 30; offenses and miscellaneous provisions, ch. 62; traffic, ch. 90.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Secs. 38-1—38-30. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - SURRENDER AND PROCEEDINGS FOR FORFEITURE OF BONDS AND RECOGNIZANCES

Sec. 38-31. - Surrender of principal by surety; forfeiture of bond; death of principal.
When the municipal court is not in session, a surety on a bond may surrender the surety's principal to a responsible law enforcement officer of the city in order to be released from liability. When the court is in session, a surety on a bond may surrender the surety's principal in open court and the principal shall be considered surrendered by plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the court or if the principal is present in person when the judge finds the principal guilty or if the judge dismisses the case prior to entry of judgment and, upon such plea or finding of guilty or dismissal, the surety shall be released from liability. If the principal does not appear by the end of the day on which the principal was bound to appear, the bond shall be forfeited. The death of the principal shall be equivalent to a surrender.
(Code 1988, § 13-30)
Charter reference— Jurisdiction and power of court, § 6.104.
Sec. 38-32. - Time when forfeiture occurs.
(a)
A bond forfeiture under this article occurs at the end of the court day upon the failure of appearance of a principal of any bond or recognizance given for the appearance of that person.
(b)
An appearance bond shall not be forfeited unless the clerk of court or appropriate employee, agent, or representative for the police department gave the surety at least 72 hours' written notice, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, before the time of the required appearance of the principal. Notice shall not be necessary if the time for appearance is within 72 hours from the time of arrest, provided the time for appearance is stated on the bond, or where the principal is given actual notice in open court.
(Code 1988, § 13-31)
State Law reference— Surety bond forfeiture, O.C.G.A. § 17-6-70.
Sec. 38-33. - Execution hearing on failure of principal to appear.
(a)
The municipal court judge shall, within ten days, upon the failure to appear, order an execution hearing not sooner than 120 days but not later than 150 days after such failure to appear. Notice of the execution hearing shall be served by certified mail to the surety at the address listed on the bond or by personal service to the surety within ten days of the date of notice or at its home office or to its designated registered agent.
(b)
If at the execution hearing it is determined that judgment should be entered, the judge shall so order.
(Code 1988, § 13-32)
Sec. 38-34. - Conditions not warranting forfeiture of bond for failure to appear; remission of forfeiture.
(a)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond under this article if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court by the written and witnessed statement of a licensed physician that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending by some physical disability.
(b)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the principal on the bond was prevented from attending because he was detained by reason of arrest, sentence, or confinement in a penal institution or jail in the state, or because he was involuntarily confined or detained pursuant to court order in a mental institution in the state. An official written and witnessed notice of the holding institution in which the principal is being detained or confined shall be considered adequate proof of the principal's detention or confinement. Upon the presentation of such written notice to the court services officer for the municipal court and the prosecutor having jurisdiction over the case along with the payment of costs by the surety to the sheriff or other law enforcement agency necessary for the return of the principal, such notice shall serve as the surety's request for a detainer to be placed on the principal. Should there be a failure to place a detainer within 30 days, Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays included, after such presentation and payment of costs, the surety shall then be relieved of liability for the appearance bond.
(c)
If the prosecution does not try the charges against a defendant within a period of one year after the date of posting bond, judgment rendered after such period may not be enforced against the surety on the bond and the surety shall thereafter be relieved of liability on the bond. This provision shall not apply where the prosecution's failure to try the charges is due to the fault of the principal.
(d)
No judgment shall be rendered on a forfeiture of any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the principal on the bond is in the custody of the county sheriff or other responsible law enforcement agency. An official written notice of the sheriff or other responsible law enforcement officer having custody or detention of the principal shall be considered adequate proof of such custody or detention. Presentation of such official written to the court services officer for the municipal court and the prosecutor having jurisdiction of the case along with payment of the estimated cost necessary to return the principal shall act as a request that a detainer be placed against the principal. Upon the police department assuming custody of the principal, the surety shall be relieved of the bond obligation except as provided in section 38-31. Should the city fail to place a detainer within 30 days, Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays included, and after presentation and the payment of the estimated cost necessary to return the principal, the surety shall be relieved of the bond obligation.
(e)
No judgment shall be rendered on any appearance bond if it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the surety was prevented from returning the principal to the jurisdiction because such principal was on active military duty.
(f)
On application filed within 90 days from the payment of judgment, the court shall order remission under the following conditions:
(1)
Provided the bond amount has been paid at any time within 90 days after judgment and the delay has not prevented the proper prosecution of the principal, upon application to the court with prior notice to the prosecutor of such application, the court shall direct remission of 95 percent of the bond amount remitted to the surety if the surety locates the principal causing the return of the principal to the city, apprehends, surrenders, or produces the principal, if the apprehension or surrender of the principal was substantially procured or caused by the surety, or if the location of the principal by the surety causes the adjudication of the principal in the municipal court. Should the surety, within two years of the failure to appear, locate the principal causing the return of the principal to the municipal court, apprehend, surrender, produce, or substantially cause the apprehension or surrender of the principal, or if the location of the principal by the surety causes the adjudication of the principal in the municipal court, the surety shall be entitled to a refund of 50 percent of the bond payment; and
(2)
Remission shall be granted on the condition of the payment of court costs and of the expenses of returning the principal to the city by the surety.
(Code 1988, § 13-33)
Sec. 38-35. - Address of principal and surety on bond or recognizance.
Every bond or recognizance given to secure the appearance of any person in any criminal proceeding shall have entered thereon the mailing address of the principal and each surety.
(Code 1988, § 13-34)
Sec. 38-36. - Execution and collection of judgment.
The city clerk, upon presentation of judgment entered in accordance with section 38-33(b), shall issue a fi. fa. and shall enforce the execution of the fi. fa. and collection of the fi. fa. in the same manner as this is done in regard to collection of delinquent taxes, assessments, penalties and license fees. This procedure includes the submission for recording of the fi. fa. to the clerk of the superior court of the county for entry of judgment on the general execution docket.
(Code 1988, § 13-35)
