ARTICLE IV. - INSURANCE BUSINESSES

Sec. 22-491. - Company license fee.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon each insurer doing business within the city in the amount of $75.00. For each separate business location in excess of one which is operating on behalf of such insurers within the city, there is hereby levied a license fee in the amount of $75.00. For the purposes of this section, the term "insurer" means a company which is authorized to transact business in any of the classes of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5.
(Ord. No. 734, § 1, 10-22-2001)
State Law reference— Authority to impose fee, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.
Sec. 22-492. - License fee for independent agencies and brokers.
There is hereby levied an annual license fee upon independent agencies and brokers for each separate business location from which an insurance business is conducted and which is not subject to the company license fee imposed by section 22-491 in the amount of $50.00 for each such location within the city.
(Ord. No. 562, § 3, 1-30-1995)
Sec. 22-493. - License fee for insurers insuring certain risks at additional business locations.
For each separate business location, not otherwise subject to a license fee under this article, operated and maintained by a business organization which is engaged in the business of lending money or transacting sales involving term financing and in connection with such loans or sales offers, solicits or takes application for insurance through a licensed agent of an insurer for insurance, the insurer shall pay an additional license fee of $26.25 per location.
(Ord. No. 734, § 2, 10-22-2001)
Sec. 22-494. - Gross premiums tax on insurers writing life, accident and sickness insurance.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer writing life, accident and sickness insurance within the state in an amount equal to one percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section, shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premiums tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 734, § 3, 10-22-2001)
State Law reference— Tax on life insurance company, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.1.
Sec. 22-495. - Gross premiums tax on other insurers.
There is hereby levied an annual tax based solely upon gross direct premiums upon each insurer, other than an insurer transacting business in the class of insurance designated in O.C.G.A. § 33-3-5(1), doing business within the state in an amount equal to 2.5 percent of the gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year, in accordance with O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2. The term "gross direct premiums," as used in this section shall mean gross direct premiums as used in O.C.G.A. § 33-8-4. The premium tax levied by this section is in addition to the license fees imposed by this article.
(Ord. No. 734, § 4, 10-22-2001)
State Law reference— Authority to assess license fee, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8; tax on other than life insurance, O.C.G.A. § 33-8-8.2.
Sec. 22-496. - Payment of fees and taxes; reports; enforcement.
(a)
The license fees levied by this article are due and payable on January 1 of each year. Any license fee not paid by March 31 for each respective year shall be delinquent.
(b)
Every insurance company doing business within the city and subject to the fees and taxes imposed in this article shall file with the city clerk, on forms prescribed by the clerk, a report showing the names and addresses of its agents representing such company in the city, the location and person in charge of each and every business location within the city operated and maintained by the company, the classes of insurance written, and any other reasonable information as may be required, and in addition shall furnish complete information regarding the premium received, by class, from policies written on risks residing or located within the city. The report shall be made over affidavit of an officer of the company. It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any person or his agent to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any such report. The report shall be filed at the time of paying the license fee and premium tax.
(c)
The person responsible for each insurance business location shall file with the city clerk a report, on forms prescribed by the clerk, showing the address of the business location, the classes of insurance written, the names of the persons writing insurance at such location, the names of the companies represented, and any other reasonable information as may be required. The report shall be made over affidavit of the person in charge of the business location. It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any person or his agent to knowingly give false or incomplete information on any report. The report shall be filed at the time of paying the license fee.
(d)
All reports required to be filed under this section shall be confidential and the information contained therein shall be solely for the use of the officers of the city responsible for administering this article.
(e)
The fees and taxes levied by this article may be enforced by execution in the same manner as other taxes of the city. A violation of this article shall be grounds for refusing or revoking a license, and the person responsible may be punished as for violations of other city ordinances.
(Code 1988, § 12-150(e)(1), (3), (4), (5), (f))
Secs. 22-497—22-520. - Reserved.
