ARTICLE II. - GOVERNING BOARD

Sec. 2-31. - Meeting days and times.
The mayor and council shall hold regular meetings on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at 7:00 p.m. each calendar year.
(Code 1988, § 2-1; Ord. No. 522, § 2, 11-8-1993; Ord. No. 540A, § 2, 4-25-1994)
Charter reference— Meetings, § 2-403.
State Law reference— Open meetings, O.C.G.A. § 50-14-1 et seq.
Sec. 2-32. - Enactment of ordinances.
(a)
An ordinance may be enacted in accordance with the procedure set forth in this section at either a regular or special meeting of the council.
(b)
An ordinance shall be introduced at a regular or special meeting by either the mayor or any member of the council, and the introduction by either the mayor or the council shall constitute the first reading of the ordinance.
(c)
Subsequent to the introduction and first reading of a proposed ordinance, the clerk or any duly authorized assistant shall provide for notice of the introduction of the ordinance to appear one time in the legal organ of the city and county, which ad must be published at least ten days prior to the scheduled second reading of the ordinance. The ad must include the date and time that the second reading and/or public hearing will be held and include a brief summary of the proposed ordinance and the location where a copy of the ordinance is available.
(d)
In addition to such public notice, the clerk or any duly authorized assistant shall post a complete photostatic copy of the proposed ordinance at the appropriate places in the city hall and the city council chambers. The posting of the proposed ordinance shall be accomplished at least one week prior to the next scheduled meeting and the ordinance shall remain posted until final enactment of the proposed ordinance. Additionally, any interested person who requests a copy of the proposed ordinance shall be provided with a copy at a reasonable charge by appropriate employees, agents or official of the city.
(e)
No public hearing is required for the enactment of any ordinance except as specifically provided in this Code dealing with special ordinances including zoning, budget, taxation, election, Charter amendments, and the like; however, the mayor or any member of the council may request a public hearing on the proposed ordinance to be held in conjunction with the second reading of the proposed ordinance. This request for public hearing must be made by motion and adopted by a majority of the council at the first reading of the ordinance. Accordingly, notice of introduction of the ordinance shall also include the date and time that a public hearing would be held on the ordinance.
(f)
At the second reading, even if no public hearing has been requested and approved by the mayor and council, public comments can be received from interested persons at the meeting, provided that interested persons have notified the city clerk of the intention to make comment and be placed on the agenda at the time of the second reading and consideration of the proposed ordinance. To be placed on the agenda for public comments about the proposed ordinance, the citizen's request must be made no later than 2:00 p.m. the business day prior to such meeting to the clerk.
(g)
The ordinance may be considered by motion duly carried for enactment, denial, or amendment after the second reading as provided in this section of the proposed ordinance, which second reading may include public hearing and/or public comments; however, the proposed ordinance may be considered for a third and/or fourth reading at the mayor and council's discretion based upon motion duly carried. The third and fourth readings may be dispensed with by appropriate motion in conjunction with motion for action as specified, duly carried at the time of the consideration of the ordinance at the meeting where the second reading occurs.
(h)
Any amendment to the ordinance may be proposed subsequent to the first reading by the mayor or any councilmember by motion. To be included as part of the proposed ordinance, the motion must be duly carried and adopted at the time of its proposal; however, any proposed ordinance, as amended, must be given at least an additional reading which would then constitute its (amended ordinance) second reading and, between the amendment's first reading as to the proposed ordinance and the next reading of the proposed ordinance as amended, the notice provisions as to legal advertisement and posting of copies as set out in this section shall be complied with by the appropriate city officials.
(Code 1988, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-33. - Appointment of councilmembers to areas of responsibility.
At the annual organizational meeting of the mayor and council, the mayor may appoint upon the approval of the council any member of the council to serve as the mayor and council designee of an area of responsibility to be divided as the city is divided into its various departments, offices, commissions and boards. If such designations are made, each councilmember so designated may report on a monthly basis the activities of the department, office, commission or board to the mayor and council. These designations, if made, shall constitute the standing committee assignments of the councilmember for the ensuing calendar year or until further action of the mayor and council, whichever shall first occur.
(Code 1988, § 2-8)
Secs. 2-34—2-60. - Reserved.
