ARTICLE V. - TEMPORARY AUTHORIZATION FOR VENDORS AND PERMITTING SALE, POURING AND PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF MALT BEVERAGES AND WINE AT SPECIAL EVENTS

Sec. 6-190. - Purpose, applicability, definitions.
(a)
The purpose of this article is to establish regulations and controls for the sale, distribution and/or public consumption of malt beverages and wine at the special events that are separately organized, approved and permitted pursuant to chapter 90, Traffic, article V.
(b)
This article shall apply exclusively to the sale, distribution and public consumption at such special events and at no times shall the sale, distribution or consumption of distilled spirits in public be permitted in violation of section 6-8 of this chapter and section 66-102 of chapter 66, article IV. These provisions shall be suspended with regard to malt beverages and wine during special events when authorized by the city, and limited only in those areas designated by the mayor and council.
(Ord. No. 935, § 3, 8-25-2014)
Sec. 6-191. - Permits required.
It shall be unlawful for any event organizer, group, organization, association, club or other entity conducting a special event in accordance with the provisions of chapter 90 of this Code to allow the sale, distribution or public consumption of malt beverages or wine without a separate permit to allow vendors of malt beverages and wine as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 935, § 3, 8-25-2014)
Sec. 6-192. - Sale of malt beverage and/or wine for consumption in public during special event in designated areas; requirement of event organizer to apply for temporary permit in addition to event permit; permitted sale by vendors designated by event organizer.
modified
(a)
Areas where malt beverages and/or wine may be sold and consumed in open public shall be permitted only within the delineated boundaries of the chapter 90 special event with food service included.
(b)
Designated areas within city where authorized. The sale, pouring and public consumption of any malt beverage or wine in public during a special event shall be limited exclusively to four specific locations located within the downtown development area as designated by the mayor and council, and these areas are:
(1)
BB&T Park;
(2)
The Depot parking lot;
(3)
The municipal parking lot located between Park Avenue and the railroad tracks;
(4)
The municipal "green space" located on South Wall Street across from City Hall; and
(5)
Controlled festival zone of Court Street from Wall Street to King Street and Park Avenue from Oothcalooga Street to Harlen Street.
(c)
Requirement to limit access to vendors and consumption area. Any location within one of the four areas designated by subsection (b) where malt beverages and/or wine is permitted by the city, with the required food service, shall be designated on all sides by means of prominent signage or fencing placed around the perimeter of the event area at all entrance and exit points indicating that all malt beverages or wine shall not be removed or taken beyond the designated boundaries of the approved and permitted area and that any attendee violating such restriction shall be subject to law enforcement action and possible criminal penalties.
(d)
Application by event organizer to allow vendors to sell and pour at special event. Whenever any special event shall include the sale and/or public consumption of malt beverages and/or wine, the event organizer of such event, shall submit a special application not less than 45 days prior to the date of the event that shall be subject to the review provisions of section 90-193 of chapter 90, article V, and the application shall include the following in particular:
(1)
Requirement of block closing. The sale and/or public consumption of malt beverages and/or wine shall not be permitted at any special event which, due to the size of such event, docs not require the closing of at least one city face block; and
(2)
Seats and food service details in application. The application shall include the number of seats proposed for such area, and a description of the method and structures that will be used to secure and separate such area(s) from other public areas as required in subsection (c) and details for the mandatory provision of food service in said area.
(e)
Fee for event organizer. The fee for a permit by the event organizer to authorize vendors to dispense and/or consume malt beverage and/or wine at a special event shall be determined by the City of Calhoun, and shall be paid in addition to and remitted at the same time to the city clerk as any other fees required, including, but not limited to, all local licensing fees.
(f)
Vendors must first be otherwise permitted for sale or pouring. The sale of malt beverage and/or wine in these areas during a special event shall be restricted to a vendor having a valid business license and valid alcoholic beverage license to sell retail, or pour malt beverages and/or wine by the drink. The name of such vendor licensee(s) and the vendor's current license number, as such appear on the license, shall be required as a part of the application for a special event permit.
(g)
Additional security for only designated areas with sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages. The event organizer of the special event shall provide, at his/her own expense, at least one off-duty, uniformed City of Calhoun police department officer, approved by the chief of police, or his designee, at the vendor area approved for the consumption of malt beverages and/or wine, and this shall be in excess of those needed for the special event in general.
(h)
Required signage in designated vendor areas. Every area where malt beverages and/or wine is consumed shall be conspicuously posted at the single point of entrance/exit with signage stating the following explicit language:
The possession of alcoholic beverages beyond this point is prohibited.
The letters of such signs shall not be less than three inches in height and one-half inch in width and shall be in black letters on a contrasting light background.
(i)
Consumption only in designated areas and uniform container. Malt beverages and/or wine shall be purchased and consumed only in designated areas, consumption cannot be in original container or retail packaging. Additionally, the following shall be required:
(1)
It shall be unlawful for patrons of any special event to bring into or take outside the designated arca(s) any alcoholic beverage, or to furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person outside the designated area where malt beverage and/or wine is permitted; and
(2)
Consumption of any malt beverages or wine sold by a vendor at the event shall be permitted only in the designated areas under this section after having been dispensed from the original container or retail packaging;
(3)
The event organizer shall cause to be furnished for sale a single uniform container to be employed for all permitted sales of any malt beverage and/or wine by any vendor, and said cup or container shall be 12 to 16 fluid ounces, and shall be made unique to the particular event by use of an event logo or name printed or screened directly upon the surface of said container; and
(4)
At no time shall any individual attending the event be permitted to consume malt beverages and/or wine that was not purchased from a permitted vendor regardless of whether in or out of the designated area, nor shall any individual be allowed to bring any such alcoholic beverages into the event area for consumption which have not been purchased on that location from a permitted vendor.
(j)
Additional application and permit required for every vendor approved or designated by event organizer. Any vendor allowed by the event organizer to sell malt beverages and/or wine for public consumption during a special event shall be required to present their valid alcoholic beverage sales license issued by the City of Calhoun or another governmental entity, as well as the State of Georgia and apply for a single use special event permit from the City of Calhoun.
(k)
Applicability of other provisions generally applicable to sale and pouring of malt beverages or wine. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any person selling or pouring malt beverage and/or wine in accordance with this section shall be required to comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances pertaining to the sale, possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(l)
Identification and verification of age for consumption of malt beverages or wine in designated areas; visible continuing identification of verified attendees by wristband. All permitted vendors and/or event operators shall establish a centralized location for the verification of identity and age for the consumption of any attendee in the designated areas. Once identity and age have been verified by the appropriate documentation, attendees shall be required to be visibly identifiable by the wearing of required wristbands demonstrating that they are authorized to purchase or hold in possession malt beverages or wine within the designated areas. A fee as set by the mayor and city council may be charged for such wristband. The transfer of wristband from one attendee to another attendee is prohibited and if a violation occurs, the wristband will be forfeited. Displaying such a wristband does not relieve alcoholic beverage establishments of responsibility for determining if a attendee has attained the age of 21 years before dispensing alcohol to that attendee.
(Ord. No. 935, § 3, 8-25-2014; Ord. No. 992 , § 1, 3-11-2019; Ord. No. 1030 , § 1, 11-22-2021; Ord. No. 1055 , § 10, 4-24-2023)
Secs. 6-193—6-199. - Reserved.
