ARTICLE VI. - CATERING

Sec. 6-175. - Sale off premises for catering purposes.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
(1)
Food caterer means any person who prepares food for consumption off the premises.
(2)
Licensed alcoholic beverage caterer means any retail dealer who has been licensed under Title 3, Article 2 of Chapter 4, Article 2 of Chapter 5, or Article 2 of Chapter 6 the Official Code of Georgia.
(b)
Licensing.
(1)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who additionally holds a valid license from a county or municipality which authorizes the licensee to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink for consumption on the premises may be issued from the same licensing authority an off-premise license which authorizes such licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(2)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who additionally holds a valid license from a county or municipality which authorizes the licensee to sell malt beverages or wine by the package for consumption off the premises may be issued from the same licensing authority an off-premise license which authorizes such licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to sell malt beverages or wine by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(3)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who additionally holds a valid license from a county or municipality which authorizes the licensee to sell distilled spirits by the drink for consumption on the premises may be issued from the same licensing authority an off-premise license which authorizes such licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to sell distilled spirits by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(4)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who additionally holds a valid license from a county or municipality which authorizes the licensee to sell distilled spirits by the package for consumption off the premises may be issued from the same licensing authority an off-premise license which authorizes such licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to sell distilled spirits by the drink off premises and in connection with an authorized catered function.
(c)
Annual license fee. Any alcoholic beverage caterer shall make application for an off-premises license as provided Article III of this chapter and shall pay an annual license fee in an amount as set from time to time by resolution of the city council and on file in the office of the city clerk.
(d)
Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who has not been issued an alcoholic caterer license by the City of Tifton, and the event is within the corporate city limits of Tifton, shall pay an event permit fee of $50.00 and shall pay local excise taxes on the total quantity of alcoholic beverages brought into the city.
(e)
A licensed alcoholic beverage caterer is eligible to sell or furnish only those types of alcoholic beverages as he can sell or furnish pursuant to his underlying alcoholic beverage license.
(f)
Event permit.
(1)
An event permit, issued by the city manager or his designee, is required before an otherwise licensed alcoholic beverage caterer can sell or furnish alcoholic beverages off premises, i.e., at any location other than the licensed premises utilizing the underlying alcoholic beverage license. In order to obtain an event permit, the licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall be required to submit a fully accurate and completed application on the form prescribed by the city which shall include the following information:
a.
Name of caterer and caterer's license number;
b.
Date of event;
c.
Time (hours) of event;
d.
Location (address) of event;
e.
Host or sponsor of event;
f.
Estimated number of persons to attend the event; and
g.
Verify that the location complies with the distance requirements contained in Article III, Section 6-65 of this Chapter from churches, school buildings, educational buildings, school grounds, or college campus, an alcoholic treatment center owned and operated by the state, county or municipal government or housing authority property.
(2)
An event permit cannot be obtained unless the event permit application referenced in subsection (f) hereinabove is accurately completed in full and submitted to the city manager or his designee at least 14 calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the event or function. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an event permit may be issued within a shorter time frame by the city manager in his sole and sound discretion.
(3)
An event permit may be refused by the city manager or his designee for any one of the following reasons:
a.
Criminal record of caterer permit holder;
b.
Previous complaints on location or of applicant;
c.
Previous damage to facility by applicant or permit holder.
(f)
Compliance. Any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer shall comply with all state statutes and rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Revenue including: (1) providing satisfactory reports to the commissioner on forms provided by the department stating the quantity of any and all alcoholic beverages transported from the licensee's primary premises to the location of the authorized catered function and such other information as required by the commissioner; and (2) Maintaining original local event permits and documents required by the department in the vehicle transporting the alcoholic beverages to the catered function at all times.
(g)
The city reserves the right to define and/or restrict the service area for serving of alcoholic beverages.
(h)
The city shall control the dispensing of alcohol in all of its facilities by requiring the use of a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer if alcohol is furnished at any such facility. Consistent with this article, alcohol may also be dispensed by a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer who has been issued an event permit at facilities of any local, state or federal public entity.
(i)
Violation.
(1)
It shall be unlawful for any food caterer or person to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine off the premises of the food caterer's business without a license issued pursuant to this section.
(2)
It shall be unlawful for any licensed alcoholic beverage caterer licensed under this section to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine off-premises except in connection with an authorized catered function for which an event permit has been obtained.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013; Ord. No. 2016-14, ยง I, 10-3-2016 )
