ARTICLE II. - MINIMUM AGE

Sec. 6-30.1. - Presence of persons not of legal age.
(a)
No individual under the age of 21 shall enter or be allowed to enter the licensed premises which has been issued a license for on-premises consumption except as follows:
(1)
A restaurant as hereinbefore defined;
(2)
An individual while he or she is attending a live musical concert or live presentation of the performing arts for which he or she has paid an admission charge.
(3)
In recreation facilities, including, but not limited to, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, skating facilities, golf course clubhouses and other similar family-oriented establishments where the majority of the establishment's annual gross revenue is derived from fees obtained in the furtherance of recreational activities.
(4)
In establishments possessing a valid retail package license where growlers are sold and locations which hold a complimentary service license.
(5)
In hotels, motels, inns, auditoriums, athletic facilities or stadiums.
(6)
In other locations where alcohol is dispensed pursuant to an event permit or complimentary service license.
(b)
When a licensee operates a bar/lounge on the premises of or in conjunction with the operation of a restaurant, hotel/motel or private club wherein the on-premise consumption of alcohol has been licensed, such bar/lounge shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
(c)
Except as to the prohibitions contained in section 6-35, nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit any person under 21 years of age from:
(1)
Dispensing, serving, selling, or handling alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in any licensed establishment;
(2)
Being employed in any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are distilled or manufactured; or
(3)
Taking orders for and having possession of alcoholic beverages as a part of employment in a licensed establishment.
(d)
No person under 21 years of age shall misrepresent his or her identity or use any false identification for the purpose of gaining admission to the premises of any on-premises beer and wine licensee or any on-premises mixed drinks licensee.
(e)
All establishments holding a license for on-premise consumption are required to verify the age of all persons entering the establishment with a photo identification such as a drivers license. Any person who has attained the age of 18 years shall be permitted to enter an establishment holding a license for on-premise consumption when he or she is attending a live musical concert or live presentation of the performing arts for which he or she has paid an admission charge. Any person age 21 and over entering such an establishment must be identified by a wrist band and containing the words "Over 21" to demonstrate they are of legal age to purchase and consume alcohol. Any person consuming alcohol without the required wrist band or any bartender or employee who serves any customer without the required wrist band, or any customer who provides or allows an under age 21 customer to consume a drink purchased by that customer will be guilty of a violation of this chapter. Violations of this section will result in an individual fine of $250.00 for a first offense, $500.00 for a second offense, and a fine to be determined by the municipal court judge for any third and subsequent offense. The business owner will also be subject to additional penalties, including suspension or revocation of their alcohol license.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013; Ord. No. 2016-06, § I, 6-16-2016 ; Ord. No. 2021-07 , § I, 5-3-2021)
Sec. 6-30.2. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2016-06 , § I, adopted June 16, 2016, repealed former § 6-30.2 in its entirety which pertained to the presence of persons not of legal age in entertainment establishments and derived from Ord. No. 2013-12 , adopted Sept. 9, 2013.
Sec. 6-31. - Consumption by persons not of legal age.
No person, who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant or employee of the business in which any such license is utilized, shall in connection with the operation of the business in which such license is utilized, permit or allow any person who has not attained legal age to consume any alcoholic beverage upon the premises licensed.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013)
Sec. 6-32. - Possession by persons not of legal age.
No person, who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant, or employee of any business in which any such license is utilized, shall in connection with the operations of the business in which such license is utilized, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, permit or allow any person who has not attained legal age to possess any alcoholic beverage upon the premises licensed.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013)
Sec. 6-33. - Furnishing to persons not of legal age.
No person, who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant or employee of the business in which any such license is utilized, shall in connection with the operation of the business in which such license is utilized sell, provide, give, furnish or distribute any alcoholic beverage to any person who has not attained legal age, except for medical purposes pursuant to a prescription of a physician duly authorized to practice medicine in this state. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall be in violation of the provisions hereof in the event that (i) such person has been furnished with identification showing that the person who is being furnished with alcoholic beverages has attained legal age and (ii) under the surrounding circumstances the person so furnished such identification could reasonably conclude that the person furnishing such identification had attained legal age. For purposes of this section, the term "identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person such as the person's photograph or other written description of and providing the person's date of birth, and shall include, without being limited to, a passport, a military identification card, or a driver's license.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013)
Sec. 6-34. - Acquiring for persons not of legal age.
No person, who is the holder of any alcoholic beverage license issued by the city nor any agent, servant or employee of the business in which any such license is utilized, shall in connection with the operation of the business in which such license is utilized purchase or acquire any alcoholic beverage for or on behalf of any person who has not attained legal age, or otherwise procure for or furnish to any person who has not attained legal age any alcoholic beverage, except for medical purpose upon the prescription of a physician duly licensed under the laws of the state.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013)
Sec. 6-35. - Employment of persons not 18 years of age.
(a)
No holder of an alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which such license is utilized shall permit or allow any person who has not attained 18 years of age and who is employed by any business operated upon premises for which an alcoholic beverage license is issued by the city to engage in the sale, distribution, or acceptance of orders for alcoholic beverages; provided, however, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to nor prohibit persons who have not attained 18 years of age who are employed by a business in connection with the operation of a grocery store, supermarket, convenience store, brewery, or drugstore from selling or handling alcoholic beverages which are sold for consumption off the premises.
(b)
No holder of an alcoholic beverage license nor any agent, servant or employee of any business in which such license is utilized shall permit or allow any person who has not attained 18 years of age to be employed by any business operated upon premises for which a license for the consumption of alcoholic beverages upon such premises is issued by the city; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to nor prohibit the employment of persons who have not attained 18 years of age in connection with the operation upon such premises of a restaurant, provided further, that persons who have not attained 18 years of age shall not engage in the sale, service, or acceptance of orders of alcoholic beverages in connection with the operation of any such restaurant.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013; Ord. No. 2016-06, § I, 6-16-2016 )
Sec. 6-36. - Failure to check identification.
In any case where a reasonable or prudent person could reasonably be in doubt as to whether or not the person to whom an alcoholic beverage is to be sold or otherwise furnished is actually 21 years of age or older, it shall be the duty of the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage to request to see and to be furnished with proper identification in order to verify the age of such person; and the failure to make such request and verification in any case where the person to whom the alcoholic beverage is sold or otherwise furnished is less than 21 years of age may be considered by the trier of fact in determining whether the person selling or otherwise furnishing such alcoholic beverage did so knowingly.
No person shall be in violation of the provisions hereof in the event that (i) such person has been furnished with identification showing that the person who is being furnished with alcoholic beverages has attained legal age and (ii) under the surrounding circumstances the person so furnished such identification could reasonably conclude that the person furnishing such identification had attained legal age. For purposes of this action, the term "proper identification" means any document issued by a governmental agency containing a description of the person such as the person's photograph or other written description and providing the person's date of birth, and shall include, without being limited to, a passport, a military identification card, or a driver's license.
( Ord. No. 2013-12 , 9-9-2013)
Secs. 6-37—6-60. - Reserved.
