Chapter 23 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 23-1. - Penalty.
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this chapter are punishable as provided in section 1-7.
Sec. 23-2. - Drinking alcoholic beverages in public places.
Amended by Ordinance No. 2023-20
It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic beverages upon the streets or roads or in the parks or playgrounds or in any other location in the city where they may be seen by the public or by any person in a place he may legally be.
( Ord. No. 03-74, 8-5-1974 )
Sec. 23-3. - Loitering, prowling, and unlawful assemblies.
(a)
A person commits the offense of loitering or prowling when he is in a place at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity.
(b)
Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to identify himself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other circumstances make it impracticable, a law enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself and explain his presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer failed to comply with the foregoing procedure or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
(c)
It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons to go to, to be at, or to congregate at, or to assemble at any public place within the city or upon private premises of another within the city contrary to the good order, peace, health, sobriety, morals and good government of said city, or at such place or premises for the purpose of engaging in any unlawful fighting or in any unlawful act, condition, or appearance, or unauthorized contest, assembly, or assemblage, either as a principal, or as a participant in, or as a spectator to, any violation hereof, any such fighting, act, contest, assembly, or assemblage within the city.
(d)
It shall be unlawful for any one or more persons to go to, to be at, to appear at, to congregate at, to assemble at, or to remain at, any place for such purposes that, under local conditions, prevailing customs, and existing circumstances in this city would cause such person in the exercise of ordinary care and discretion, as defined by the Supreme Court of this state, to believe and conclude that the being in or appearance at such place by such person, for such purposes would be in violation of, or would likely cause, a violation of the ordinances of this city, or the laws of this state, and thereby would and does cause a breach of the peace, and create public tension, and public excitement, contrary to the ordinances of this city, or the laws of this state, or contrary to the good order, peace, and dignity of this city.
(e)
Should anyone violate the provisions of this section, and should any city policeman or other qualified peace officer direct or order any such person, participant, or spectator to disperse and leave any place where this section is being violated, or any adjoining area near enough to such place as to hinder or interfere with such policeman or peace officer in the line of duty, in an attempt to enforce the ordinances of this city or the laws of this state, such person on failing or refusing to leave, or disperse, shall be in violation of this Code.
( Ord. No. 02-87, §§ 1—5, 7-6-1987 )
Sec. 23-4. - Disorderly conduct.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city to:
(1)
Act in a violent or tumultuous matter toward another whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of such person's life, limb or health;
(2)
Act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
(3)
Frequent any public place with intent to obtain money from other persons by illegal and fraudulent schemes, tricks, artifices or devices;
(4)
Assemble for the purpose of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any person or to aid or abet therein;
(5)
Accost or force one's company upon any person;
(6)
Defecate or urinate on streets, lanes, or sidewalks, or in the halls or elevators of public or commercial buildings, or in any park or playground, or on any property open to public view; or
(7)
No person shall disturb or violate the peace, good order or quiet of the city or any part thereof, by any riotous, boisterous, noisy or disorderly conduct.
( Ord. No. 04-89, §§ (1)—(5), (7), (9), 8-7-1989 )
Sec. 23-5. - Outdoor watering of landscape.
(a)
Restriction on outdoor water of landscape. Outdoor watering for purposes of planting, growing, managing, or maintaining ground cover, trees, shrubs, or other plants may occur only between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.; provided, however, that this limitation shall not create any limitation upon the following outdoor water uses:
(1)
Commercial raising, harvesting, or storing of crops; feeding, breeding, or managing livestock or poultry; the commercial production or storing of feed for use in the production of livestock, including, but not limited to, cattle, calves, swine, hogs, goats, sheep, and rabbits, or for use in the production of poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, hens, ratites, and turkeys; producing plants, trees, fowl, or animals; or the commercial production of aquacultural, horticultural, dairy, livestock, poultry, eggs, and apiarian products or as otherwise defined in O.C.G.A. § 1-3-3;
(2)
Capture and reuse of cooling system condensate or storm water in compliance with applicable city ordinances and state guidelines;
(3)
Reuse of gray water in compliance with O.C.G.A. § 31-3-5.2 and applicable local board of health regulations;
(4)
Use of reclaimed waste water by a designated user from a system permitted by the Environmental Protection Division of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources to provide reclaimed waste water;
(5)
Watering personal food gardens;
(6)
Watering new and replanted plant, seed, or turf in landscapes, golf courses, or sports turf fields during installation and for a period of 30 days immediately following the date of installation;
(7)
Drip irrigation or irrigation using soaker hoses;
(8)
Hand watering with a hose with automatic cutoff or handheld container;
(9)
Use of water withdrawn from private water wells or surface water by an owner or operator of property if such well or surface water is on said property;
(10)
Watering horticultural crops held for sale, resale, or installation;
(11)
Watering athletic fields, golf courses, or public turf grass recreational areas;
(12)
Installation, maintenance, or calibration of irrigation systems; or
(13)
Hydroseeding.
(b)
Enforcement.
(1)
No person shall use or allow the use of water in violation of the restrictions on outdoor water use contained in [this] section.
(2)
Every police officer or code enforcement officer shall be the enforcement authority for this section. The city manager may also authorize other departments as may be deemed necessary to support enforcement.
(3)
Criminal and alternative penalties. Any violation of this section may also be enforced by a citation or accusation returnable to the magistrate court or by any other legal means as set forth in this Code.
( Ord. No. 2010-08, 12-14-2010 )
