Chapter 26 - SOLID WASTE[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-20 et seq.; local solid waste plans, O.C.G.A. § 12-8-31.1; littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 26-1. - Penalty.
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this chapter are punishable as provided in section 1-7.
Sec. 26-2. - Littering in public places.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, place, throw, dump, deposit or permit or cause to be dropped, placed, thrown, dumped, or deposited any trash, garbage, dead animals, cans, rubbish, paper cups, wastepaper, litter, brickbats, or any discarded material upon the roads, streets, lanes, or other rights-of-way in the city, or its parks, playgrounds, parking lots, schoolgrounds, church grounds, or any other location in said city visible from any place where the public is free to go.
( Ord. No. 04-74, 8-5-1974 )
State Law reference— Littering, O.C.G.A. § 16-7-40 et seq.
Sec. 26-3. - Litter on private property.
(a)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Garbage means putrescible solid waste, including all food waste and general household refuse, such as waste accumulations of animal or vegetable matter used or intended for use as food, including nonputrescible solid waste that attends the preparation, use, cooking, handling or storage of said matter, such as rags, glass, tin cans, paper, cloth, plastic materials and other similar items.
Litter means manmade or man-used solid waste material, such as paper, glass, cardboard boxes, or cans.
Rubbish means nonputrescible waste such as waste material from the construction, remodeling and repair operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, abandoned appliances and furniture, concrete, bricks, plaster, earth, lumber shavings, sawdust, crates, metal, rubber, and also nonputrescible industrial waste such as rejected building materials, rolls of paper and similar items.
Trash, junk means all nonputrescible solid waste such as dust, leaves, yard clippings, tree branches, grass, straw, wood or metal as well as other similar materials normally accumulated in the care and maintenance of residential property or commercial property.
Weeds, undergrowth means poison ivy, plants of obnoxious odors, and grasses causing hay fever, or other vegetation which serves as a breeding place for mosquitoes or refuge for snakes and rats or as a hiding place for filth and any growth that creates a fire or traffic hazard or a nuisance due to unsightliness.
(b)
Unlawful hazards. It shall be unlawful for all owners of lots or tracts of land in the city, whether occupied or unoccupied, to permit or allow garbage, litter, rubbish, filth, weeds, undergrowth, trash/junk and other offensive matter and material to accumulate and remain on the premises of any lot within the city limits, if such materials increase the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities or create an unsafe, unsanitary, or dangerous condition detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the city or if such conditions otherwise are inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city.
( Ord. No. 02-03, §§ 1, 2, 8-12-2003 )
Secs. 26-4—26-24. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
DIVISION 1. - GENERALLY

Sec. 26-25. - Municipal jurisdiction.
It shall be mandatory that all owners, occupants, tenants and lessees of residential buildings, offices or businesses, commercial buildings and premises and the same shall be required to accept such collection and removal services as it relates to the disposal of garbage, trash, rubbish and other debris within the municipal jurisdiction of the city.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(31), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-26. - Nuisance.
(a)
The keeping of garbage in containers other than containers prescribed by this article or the keeping upon premises of garbage or yard waste which is allowed to become offensive and noisome, shall constitute a public nuisance and may be abated in the manner provided by law.
(b)
A separate violation shall be deemed committed each day during or upon which such unlawful accumulation continues.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(48), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-27. - Illegal disposal of garbage, etc.
(a)
No person shall deposit garbage, trash or refuse on or bury in, any public easements or right-of-way, street, alley, sidewalk, or other public land, or any storm sewer, vacant or unoccupied lot, or any lake, stormwater ditch, creek or watercourse.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or lessee of any building, yard or lots of ground within the city to allow garbage, trash or refuse of any kind to accumulate or remain in the building, or upon the yard or lot, unless placed in a container as required by this division.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(47), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-28. - Removal of solid waste or other debris.
If a customer has not removed extra or nonconforming solid waste, hazardous waste or refuse within 48 hours after notification by the city, the city manager or designee may order such removal and all costs incurred shall be placed against the customer's utility account.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(49), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-29. - Notification for collection.
All occupants and persons in possession, charge or control of premises and places in or upon which garbage is created, accumulated or produced shall notify the city that collection of garbage from such places is required.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(32), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-30. - Business and industries within the city.
All businesses and industries located in the city shall place all the garbage and rubbish generated by them in authorized containers. All commercial bulk containers must have closefitting lids. All lids and side doors shall be kept closed by the users so the contents are covered at all times.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(33), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-31. - Precollection.
(a)
All garbage and refuse shall be placed in plastic or paper bags with the tops securely tied and stored in solid waste containers authorized by the city.
(b)
Any solid waste that may injure or hamper a collector, such as, but not limited to, broken glass; light bulbs, razor blades, fluorescent, neon or other gas-filled tubes; or other potentially sharp or hazardous objects shall be securely wrapped so as to prevent puncture to the wrapping or solid waste container.
(c)
Private streets and other roads which are not dedicated city rights-of-way shall be fully accessible to the city's provider and equipment in order for collections to be made by the city.
(d)
If any authorized garbage container is obstructed in such a manner as to prohibit the automated collection vehicle from dumping the container, the container's contents will not be collected. Waste placed in containers other than authorized containers will not be collected.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(34), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-32. - Authorized containers.
Each residential dwelling or commercial unit that has individually metered water service will be provided one standard authorized rollaway garbage container by the city. Upon request, one additional garbage container may be delivered to a residential dwelling unit at an additional monthly charge.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(35), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-33. - Loss or damage to authorized containers.
(a)
Authorized containers assigned to residential or commercial customers by the city are and shall remain property of the city's provider.
(b)
Damage to, loss, or removal of an authorized container assigned to a residential or commercial unit shall be the responsibility of the holder of the water account for the unit at the time such damage, loss, or removal is discovered by the city, and such holder of the water account or property owner (if no water account is noted) shall be liable for all costs associated with replacing the container unless the damage is determined to be caused by another party or the container is determined to be faulty.
(c)
Persons moving from one address in the city to another address in the city, or from the city to another locality, shall leave all authorized containers at the dwelling to which the containers have been assigned.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(36), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-34. - Maintenance of authorized containers.
(a)
Authorized containers assigned shall be the responsibility of and kept and maintained by the occupants of such units in a clean and sanitary manner so as to prevent the breeding of flies, vermin, or vectors, or the release of odors.
(b)
Dumpsters and multifamily containers assigned to multifamily dwellings and mobile home parks shall be the responsibility of and maintained by the owner of such units and the manager of such units in a clean, disinfected, and sanitary manner so as to prevent the breeding of flies, vermin, or vectors, or the release of odors.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(37), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-35. - Time of placement of residential solid waste for collection.
(a)
Authorized containers shall be placed in a location that is readily accessible to collection equipment, not to exceed two feet from the curb or edge of the traveled portion of the street or road and not to be located in a manner that will block the driveway or mailbox or otherwise inhibit proper servicing. All authorized containers shall be placed adjacent to the street or lane on which the property faces. Containers shall not, however be placed so as to interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(b)
Garbage and trash shall be set out for collection entirely within fully closed authorized garbage containers and placed on the street abutting the residential or commercial unit for which the container was assigned, as near to the curb as possible, and far enough away from other containers, vehicles, utility lines and boxes, poles, mail-boxes, and other objects so as to facilitate collection by automated collection vehicles.
(c)
Such placement shall not restrict access to public sidewalks, pathways and bicycle paths. Where there is no curb, authorized containers shall be placed next to the edge of the road pavement in the same manner as if there were a curb. For proper automated collection, the authorized garbage container shall be placed in such a manner as to have sufficient clearance on each side so as to be accessible to the automated collections vehicle with the container handle facing away from the street or right-of-way.
(d)
All residents utilizing city collection or yard debris shall place such items on their premises behind the curbline, located so as to be easily accessible to street pickup, not to be placed over or next to fixed items such as fire hydrants, telephone or electrical boxes, mail boxes or anything that could be damaged by equipment or personnel picking up said items. The city will not be responsible for repairing or replacing any item removed or damaged which was placed curbside in such a manner that it appeared to be intended for removal or was not visible because it was mixed with other items placed curbside.
(e)
Residential solid waste shall be set out for collection as otherwise provided in this article not earlier than the day preceding the scheduled collection day and shall be removed from the curb no later than the day after the scheduled collection.
(f)
Authorized containers shall be removed from the street and stored on the side or rear of the dwelling to which it is assigned as soon as possible after collection. Alternative storage locations for trash carts may be permitted on a case-by-case basis upon approval by the zoning official. In such cases, a visual barrier shall be provided which keeps trash carts out of view from the public right-of-way to the maximum extent possible. In no instance shall containers be permitted to remain on the street after midnight of the day following the scheduled collection day.
(g)
No containers shall be stored on city easements or rights-of-way except for times specified for collections.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(38), 4-22-2008 ; Ord. No. 2017-01 , § 1, 3-14-2017)
Sec. 26-36. - Collection assistance due to physical limitations.
(a)
The city manager or designee may visit any residence to determine if curbside placement of the authorized container is impossible due to physical limitations. A written verification by a medical doctor that the resident is unable to physically place garbage and trash at the curbside may be required.
(b)
Residences receiving assistance with the non-curbside service will utilize a collection point designated by the city's provider.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(39), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-37. - Special service.
Any person requesting special service, that is the collection of any items not otherwise provided for in this article, may arrange with the city for such service, upon payment in advance of the estimated cost if, in the opinion of the city manager, personnel and equipment are available to give such service.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(40), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-38. - Scavenging.
No person other than the owner or authorized collection personnel shall sift the contents of or remove anything from containers, boxes or bundles containing garbage or rubbish.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(41), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-39. - Move-outs and evictions.
(a)
For rental properties, garbage, trash, or other solid waste originating from the property during the cleanup between tenants shall be the responsibility of the landlord and/or the property owner. Following an eviction, any property, trash, belongings, or other items shall be placed on some portion of the landlord's property, immediately behind the sidewalk or if there is no sidewalk, a minimum of five feet behind the curb or off the pavement, and shall not be located as to impede or obstruct or divert either pedestrian or vehicular traffic or the flow of surface water or block drains.
(b)
Any property, trash, belongings, or other items placed curbside following an eviction shall be removed within 48 hours of the physical eviction by the property owner.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(42), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-40. - Building materials.
The city shall not be responsible for collecting or hauling discarded building materials, dirt, broken concrete, bricks, rock or debris resulting from repairs, renovations, remodeling, or construction waste (e.g., cabinets, doors, windows, roofing debris, lumber, siding carpet and/or floor coverings and plumbing fixtures, including, but not limited to, sinks, bath tubs, shower stalls, toilets). Such material must be disposed of by the builder, property owner, or tenant.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(43), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-41. - Prohibited materials.
(a)
Dead animals, tires, sewage, poisons, commercial medical waste, explosives, dangerous or corrosive chemicals, motor oil, yard debris (e.g., leaves, limbs, etc.) and bulky items such as air conditioners, furniture, or lumber shall not be placed in receptacles used for regular collection service or in the city's container.
(b)
No person shall dispose of any hypodermic syringe, needle, instrument or device used for injections, except when in compliance with state and federal regulations and as a minimum make this material completely incapable of reuse. Prior to disposal, such material shall be placed in an appropriate container and secured so as to prevent injury to collectors.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(44), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-42. - Drainage of refuse.
All refuse capable of holding liquids must be drained before being deposited in the city's containers.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(45), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-43. - Civil penalties.
Any person, business, entity, or organization violating this article shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $110.00, nor more than $550.00, for each violation. The accused violator of this article shall be deemed to be the person or entity in whose name the service is provided, the actual perpetrator of the violation, and/or the owner of the property, as applicable. The designated code enforcement officer is hereby authorized to issue notice of imposition of such civil penalty. Subject to the provisions of section 26-45, governing appeals, payment of the civil penalty shall be provided in the form of cash, money order, or certified check prior to the court date written on the notice of imposition of such civil penalty. The court date written on the notice of imposition of civil penalty shall be no sooner than 20 days after the date of the notice of imposition of civil penalty. The city attorney or his designee is hereby authorized to institute a proceeding in any court having jurisdiction thereof to collect such civil penalty. All civil penalties recovered pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into a dedicated fund of the city.
(Ord. No. 2016-02 , § 1, 7-12-2016; Ord. No. 2017-08 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Sec. 26-44. - Notice of imposition of civil penalty.
Notice of imposition of a civil penalty for a violation of this article shall be accomplished by mailing the notice to the last known address of the person or entity in whose name the service is provided, the actual perpetrator of the violation, and/or the owner of the property, as applicable. Notice of imposition of a civil penalty for violation of this article shall specify the nature of the violation, shall specify the section and (if applicable) subsection which the accused violator is alleged to have violated, shall specify the payment amount due, shall specify that payment is to be provided in cash, money order, or certified check, shall specify the court date on which the accused violator is scheduled to appear, and shall specify that the accused violator has the right to appeal the imposition of the civil penalty to the designated code enforcement officer.
(Ord. No. 2016-02 , § 1, 7-12-2016; Ord. No. 2017-08 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Sec. 26-45. - Appeal.
Any person, business, entity, or organization aggrieved by a civil penalty imposed pursuant to this article shall have the right to appeal to the designated code enforcement officer. The appeal shall be accomplished by providing a document, a form which will be made available by the city, titled "Notice of Appeal" on which the accused violator identifies the basis for the appeal and attaches or references the notice of civil penalty. To be effective, any notice of appeal filed pursuant to this article must be received no later than five days prior to the court date on which the accused violator is scheduled to appear. Failure to submit a notice of appeal within the required time frame shall constitute a waiver of the accused violator's right to appeal, and the accused violator shall appear in court or pay the penalty prior to the scheduled court date. Upon receipt of a timely notice of appeal, the designated code enforcement officer shall determine whether the accused violator violated this article, and based on that determination, is authorized to, in his/her sole discretion, confirm, modify or waive such civil penalty. The designated code enforcement officer's determination shall be in writing and provided to the accused violator. If the accused violator is dissatisfied with the designated code enforcement officer's determination, the accused violator may dispute the violation in the municipal court of the City of Springfield on the scheduled court date.
(Ord. No. 2016-02 , § 1, 7-12-2016; Ord. No. 2017-08 , § 1, 10-10-2017)
Secs. 26-46—26-72. - Reserved.
DIVISION 2. - COLLECTORS

Sec. 26-73. - Contracts with independent solid waste providers.
In order for the city to provide adequate service to the citizens of the city for the collection, removal and disposal of refuse accumulated, the city may enter into a contract with an independent contractor, either private or another municipal corporate entity, for such services.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(70), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-74. - Contract price.
The city council may negotiate with an independent contractor or another municipal corporate entity the terms, conditions and consideration to be paid for the services sought under such a contract; and it shall be presumed that any consideration agreed upon between the city and such independent contractor or municipal corporate entity shall be in the best interest and welfare of the citizens of this city.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(71), 4-22-2008 )
Secs. 26-75—26-91. - Reserved.
DIVISION 3. - RATES AND CHARGES

Sec. 26-92. - Rates.
(a)
Fees for collection of garbage and yard waste shall be those as established by resolution of the city council, and shall be published in the office of the city hall where utility bills may be paid.
(b)
Rates will be subject to periodic review and adjusted by the city council by separate resolution as necessary to ensure adequate cost recovery for operation of the sanitary municipal solid waste system.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(90), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-93. - Billing.
Owners or occupants of premises receiving such service shall be billed for refuse collection and disposal charges in the same manner and at the same time as invoices for water are billed. The charges for solid waste collection and water service shall appear on the same bill with each charge substantiated.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(91), 4-22-2008 )
Sec. 26-94. - Nonpayment of fees.
Any person failing or refusing to pay the monthly solid waste bill or other related charges provided for in this article after having been duly billed by the city, shall be guilty of a violation of this article, and all solid waste services and water service provided by the city to the premises for which the monthly charges are past due may be terminated by the city.
( Ord. No. 2008-06, § 1(92), 4-22-2008 )
