Chapter 1 - CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Magistrate courts, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-1 et seq.; violation of county ordinances, O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 et seq.; preemption of ordinances to general law, Ga. Const. art. III, § III, ¶ IV.

Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.
This entire compilation consisting of Parts I and II and appendices, shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, Columbia County, Georgia," or "Columbia County Code," and may be so cited.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-1; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-1, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code of Ordinances, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the board of commissioners:
Chairman, other officers. Whenever the term "chairman" is used it shall mean the chairman of the board of commissioners of Columbia County. Whenever titles of various officers are used, they shall refer to the persons holding such positions with Columbia County.
Code. The term "Code" shall mean this Code of Ordinances, Columbia County, Georgia.
Commission, board of commissioners, county commission, governing authority, governing body. The terms "commission," "board of commissioners," "county commission," "governing authority" and "governing body" shall each mean the board of commissioners of Columbia County, Georgia.
Computation of time. Except as otherwise provided by time period computations specifically applying to other laws, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years or other measurements of time, except hours, is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted; and, if the last day falls on Saturday or Sunday, the party having such privilege or duty shall have through the following Monday to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the last day prescribed for such action shall fall on a public or legal holiday as set forth in O.C.G.A. § 1-4-1, the party having the privilege or duty shall have through the next business day to exercise the privilege or to discharge the duty. When the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
County. The term "the county" or "this county" shall mean Columbia County, Georgia.
Day. The term "day" shall mean a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the division director of the county to do some act or make certain inspections it is to be construed to authorize the division director to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section expressly provide otherwise.
Following. The term "following" shall mean next after.
Gender. A word importing one gender shall extend and be applied to the other genders, if the context so permits.
Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare. Where any provision of the Code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by other provisions of this Code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to act upon the concurrence of a majority of such persons or officers.
Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" shall mean and include the persons, firms, associations, corporations, receivers, trustees, personal representatives, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
Month. The term "month" shall mean a calendar month.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath. The term "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the terms "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or" if the context requires or permits it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or tenant in partnership of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person. The term "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies, firms, partnerships, limited partnerships, limited liability companies, limited liability partnerships and other entities and bodies politic and corporate as well as to individuals.
Personal property. The term "personal property" shall include every species of property except real property, as described in this section.
Preceding. The term "preceding" shall mean next before.
Premises. Whenever the term "premises" is used it shall mean place or places.
Property. The term "property" shall include real and personal property.
Public place. The term "public place" shall mean any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto, or any area available and/or accessible to the public, regardless of whether privately or publicly owned.
Real property. The term "real property" shall include lands, buildings, tenements, hereditaments, whatever is growing upon or affixed to land, and rights issuing out of, annexed to and exercisable within or about land.
Residence. The term "residence" shall be construed to mean the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
Schedule of fees and charges. The term "schedule of fees and charges" shall mean the official consolidated list maintained in the county clerk's office which lists rates for utility or other public enterprises, fees of any nature, deposit amounts and various charges as determined from time to time by the board of commissioners.
Seal. The term "seal" shall mean the county seal or the seal of the corporation.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
Signature or subscription. The "signature" or "subscription" of a person shall include a mark when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" or "the state" shall mean the State of Georgia.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the county.
Tenant, occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and present.
Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean a calendar week of seven days.
Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year. The term "year" shall mean a calendar year unless some other beginning and ending dates are specified.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-2; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-2, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-3. - Titles of sections or subsections.
The titles of the several sections or subsections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended for the convenience of users to indicate the contents of the section or subsection and shall not be deemed or taken to be any part of the section or subsection and shall not be used or referred to in interpreting or construing such section or subsection unless expressly provided otherwise.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-3; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-3, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-4. - Construction of ordinances, etc.
The same rules shall be applied in construing provisions of this Code, and ordinances and resolutions of this county, as are applied in construing the statutes of this state, which rules are found in O.C.G.A. §§ 1-3-1, 1-3-2 and 1-3-3, and the same meanings are to be given words found in the ordinances as are given similar words found in the statutes of this state unless otherwise defined in this Code.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-4; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-4, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-5. - Effect of repeal of ordinances and resolutions.
(a)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not revive any ordinances or resolutions in force before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect which were repealed by the ordinance now being repealed.
(b)
The repeal of an ordinance or resolution shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance or resolution repealed.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-6; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-6, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-6. - Severability of parts of Code.
It is the intention of the board of commissioners that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code, since they would have been enacted by the board of commissioners without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-7; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-7, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-7. - Amendments; effect of new ordinances and resolutions; adoptions by reference.
(a)
All ordinances and resolutions passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. In the case of repealed chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances and resolutions, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances and resolutions as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances and resolutions until such time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted anew by the board of commissioners.
(b)
All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed should be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the case may be.
(c)
Unless otherwise specified, all regulations, state law, international codes, schedules, appendixes, and other legal matters adopted by reference, shall be available for inspection upon request to the board of commissioners office located at 630 Ronald Reagan Drive, Building B, Evans, Georgia 30809.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-8; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-8, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 16-06 , § 1, 7-19-2016)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-06 , § 1, adopted July 19, 2016, changed the title of § 1-7 from "Amendments, effect of new ordinances and resolutions; amendatory language" to read as herein set out.
Sec. 1-8. - Altering Code.
It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this Code in any manner whatsoever (except by ordinance or resolution or other official act of the board of commissioners or state legislature) which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented thereby.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-9; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-9, 12-16-1999)
Sec. 1-9. - General penalty.
(a)
Whenever in this Code any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code the doing of any act is required or the failure to act is declared unlawful, such violation shall be punishable by imprisonment of not more than 60 days, and a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or the maximum penalty allowed by law under O.C.G.A. § 15-10-60 and, in addition, shall pay the costs of such action. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the chief magistrate's authority to suspend or probate any or all of such sentence. Upon issuance of the sentence of probation, the court shall be free to make conditions of probations as may be appropriate based on the circumstances of the case.
(b)
Each day any violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(c)
In addition to the penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any ordinance shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be abated by the county as provided by law. Each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
(d)
In addition to any penalty provided in this section or otherwise in this Code, the county may suspend the availability of other county provided services, such as utilities, business licenses, or permits, to the person, entity, or affiliated entity, related by common control or ownership, for which the past due monies to the county are owed. The county shall mail a pre-termination notice, including a right to cure, at least 14 days prior to terminating existing services for failure to pay past due amounts. The county may charge to past due accounts late payment fees, fees for returned checks and any other matters the board of commissioners, in its discretion, determines would be appropriate for the handling of unpaid past due accounts.
(Code 1979, § 2-1-10; Ord. No. 99-15, § 2-1-10, 12-16-1999; Ord. No. 00-10, § 2(b), 10-3-2000; Ord. No. 15-21, § 1, 5-5-2015)
