ARTICLE VII. - PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS

Sec. 22-128. - Intent/limitation of scope.
The intent of this article is the prevention of fraud, the prevention of crime, and the protection of residents' privacy through the reasonable regulation of solicitation activities. Enforcement of this article shall be limited to regulating commercial transactions and the solicitation of funds, and shall expressly exclude restricting solicitations for political campaigns, distribution of religious material, or to enlisting support for unpopular causes.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-129. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where context clearly indicates a different meaning:
County. The word "county" shall mean Columbia County, Georgia.
Director. The word "director" shall mean the director of the development services division of the county, or such other county official as the board of commissioners may designate from time to time to carry out the functions of the director as set forth in this article.
Peddler. A "peddler" is any person who has no permanent, regular place of business within the county; and who engages in the business of selling or offering to sell goods or services by going from place to place within the county, except a person selling agricultural products and holding a letter from a county agent certifying that the products were produced by that person.
Permit. A "permit" is the right or privilege granted by the county to engage in business as a peddler within the county. Evidence that such right or privilege has been granted shall be in the form of a permit document issued by the board of commissioners, which document shall be kept on the peddler's person.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Cross reference— Definitions and rules of construction, § 1-2.
Sec. 22-130. - Permit required.
(a)
No person, firm or corporation shall operate a business as a peddler within the county unless a license for such business has first been granted by the county as outlined in this article.
(b)
No solicitor for subscriptions shall solicit within the county unless a permit has been granted by the county in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(c)
Such permit shall be effective only for the period stated in the document unless suspended or revoked prior to expiration.
(d)
Application for a permit shall be made on forms prescribed by the board of commissioners and shall provide such information as is required by this article and such additional information as may be necessary to define completely the activities to be conducted within the county.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-131. - Application for peddler's license.
(a)
An application containing the following information shall be completed and filed with the board of commissioners by each applicant for a license under this article:
(1)
Name of the applicant;
(2)
Permanent address and telephone number of the applicant;
(3)
Local address and telephone number of the applicant;
(4)
The applicant's date of birth and age, if an individual;
(5)
The applicant's Social Security number or federal employer identification number;
(6)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name and home address of each partner, principal, or corporate officer;
(7)
If the applicant is a corporation, the state and date of incorporation;
(8)
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the name, home address, date of birth, age and Social Security number of the principal representative in the county;
(9)
Name and home address of all employees to work in the county;
(10)
Name of business represented by the applicant, if different from the applicant;
(11)
Permanent address of the business represented by applicant;
(12)
Name of agent conducting sale; if any;
(13)
Local address and telephone number of sales agent, if any;
(14)
Type of merchandise or service to be offered for sale;
(15)
Place where business is to be conducted;
(16)
Date to be in business and total number of days to be in business;
(17)
Hours during which business will be conducted;
(18)
Manner in which business to be conducted;
(19)
Georgia sales tax number of authorization;
(20)
State and license tag number of each vehicle to be used in the business;
(21)
List of cities where business has been conducted by the applicant within the last 12 months.
(b)
Failure to pay the license, administrative and investigative fees, if any, at the time of filing the application, or failure to furnish all information as required by the application form and/or this article, will cause the application to be deemed incomplete and no action will be taken thereon until such application is complete. All application shall be sworn to by the applicant before a notary public or other officer empowered by law to administer oaths.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-132. - Approval procedures.
(a)
An application for a license under this article shall be presented to the development services director or designated staff within 45 days after the date such application is deemed complete.
(b)
Upon approval of the application the license shall be issued.
(c)
If the application is denied, the development services director shall set forth the reasons for such denial.
(d)
Any license granted under this article shall expire no later than December 31 of the year issued.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-133. - Display of permit.
A permit shall, at all times, be kept plainly exposed to public view at the premises for which the license was granted and/or on the person engaging in the activity requiring the permit. The permit shall include a color photo of the natural person applicant.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-134. - Transferability.
No permit under this article shall be transferable.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-135. - Fees.
Any peddler as defined by this article shall pay a permit fee of $20.00 per day up to a maximum fee of $100.00 for any one period of continuous business operation within the city during a calendar year. In any case where a higher permit fee is required by another article, the higher fee shall apply.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-136. - Registered agent required.
Any peddler shall identify a registered agent for service of process in his permit application. Such registered agent shall be a resident of Columbia County and shall be an agent of such peddler upon whom any process, notice or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the peddler may be served in the same manner provided by law for the service of a summons or complaint. Said registered agent shall agree in writing to act as such agent, and a copy of the agreement shall be filed with the permit application.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-137. - Exception; Georgia corporations and registered corporations.
(a)
No applicant which is a corporation, and which submits evidence that the corporation is chartered by the State of Georgia, shall be required to secure a registered agent within Columbia County.
(b)
No applicant which is a corporation chartered outside the State of Georgia, and which submits evidence that the corporation is currently registered with the secretary of state of the State of Georgia, shall be required to secure a registered agent within Columbia County.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-138. - Hours of operation.
Any peddler shall provide in writing to the licensing and permits office the hours of operation of the business. No permit under this article shall operate any such activity business except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-139. - Inspection required.
The Columbia County Sheriff's Office, and authorized agents or employees designated by Columbia County shall be authorized from time to time to make inspections during regular business hours of each business issued a permit under this article, for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this article, are fully complied with. It shall be unlawful for any permittee under this article to fail to allow such county officers and officials access to the premises or to hinder the officer or official in any manner.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
Sec. 22-140. - Violation; penalties.
(a)
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-9.
(b)
In addition to the penalties set forth in subsection (a) of this section, the board of commissioners may revoke or suspend a permit for violation of this article, which shall be a distinct and separate penalty. Any violation of this article, or any failure to comply with the requirements of this article, shall be grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of any and all permits held by the permittee regardless of the number of permits or locations involved, and regardless of whether or not the permittee knew of or contributed to such violation. It is the intent of this subsection, without limiting the generality thereof, to grant to the board of commissioners the right to suspend or revoke any and all permits held by a permittee when any violation of this article occurs at any place of business operated by the permittee pursuant to a license.
( Ord. No. 18-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-9-2018 )
