Chapter 90 - ZONING[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
Cross reference— Buildings and building construction, ch. 18; cable communications, ch. 26; environment, ch. 34; floods, ch. 42; mobile homes and trailers, ch. 54; public swimming pools, spas and natural beaches, § 62-76 et seq.; subdivisions, ch. 74.
State Law reference— The Zoning Procedures Law, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-1 et seq.; local government zoning powers, O.C.G.A. § 36-66-2; authority to adopt plans and exercise the power of zoning, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ IV.

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 90-1. - Jurisdiction.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land, buildings and structures within the unincorporated areas in the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-1)
Sec. 90-2. - Short title.
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the "Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of Columbia County, Georgia."
(Code 1979, § 2-16-2)
Sec. 90-3. - General intent.
The intent of this chapter is for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-3)
Sec. 90-4. - Planning commission created; duties.
(a)
There is created the county planning commission, which will consist of five members. Each commissioner of Columbia County shall appoint one member to the planning commission who must be a resident at the time of his/her appointment of the district from which the appointing commissioner of Columbia County is elected. The chairman of the board of commissioners shall appoint a member who resides anywhere in Columbia County at the time of his/her appointment. Any person appointed to the planning commission by a commissioner of Columbia County elected from a district must continue to be a resident of the district from which he/she was appointed and the appointee of the chairman of the board of commissioners must continue to be a resident of Columbia County throughout the term of his/her service. A vacancy shall be created in the office of any member of the planning commission who no longer meets the residency requirement. Individuals serving as members of the planning commission on the date of adoption of this section shall continue to serve for the balance of their terms. Individuals appointed to serve as members of the planning commission succeeding those members whose terms expire December 31, 2008 and those members whose terms expire December 31, 2010 shall be appointed to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners of Columbia County. The Board of Commissioners of Columbia County may remove the member of the planning commission at anytime with or without cause provided that the commissioner of Columbia County who appointed the planning commission member in question must vote with the majority of the board of commissioners to remove the planning commission member. A member of the planning commission shall no longer serve after the time that the commissioner of Columbia County who appointed such member ceases to be a member of the board of commissioners; provided, however, that such member of the planning commission shall continue to serve as a member of the planning commission until his/her successor has been duly appointed and qualified for office. A vacancy on the planning commission shall be filled by an appointment made by the commissioner of Columbia County who appointed the member that is being replaced, or, if such commissioner of Columbia County is no longer serving on the board of commissioners or by his/her successor.
(b)
Annually the planning commission shall elect one of its members as chairman and another of its members as vice chairman.
(c)
The duties of the planning commission shall include:
(1)
Review and approve those plats as required under chapter 74 of this Code.
(2)
Annually assess the county's adopted growth management plan with regard to changing conditions, rezoning approvals and other data, as appropriate.
(3)
Recommend approval or disapproval to the board of commissioners of all amendments to the growth management plan.
(4)
Recommend approval, disapproval or other action to the board of commissioners on all requests for zoning changes or variances as provided in this chapter.
(5)
Recommend changes in chapters 42, 54, 74 and this chapter to the board of commissioners that the planning commission believes are appropriate.
(6)
Hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions or for interpretation of the zoning map, in accordance with section 90-183.
(7)
Hear and decide requests for temporary permits for mobile homes as provided for in chapter 54 of this Code.
(8)
Hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of chapter 42 of this Code.
(9)
Conduct such other business and affairs as may be designated by the board of commissioners from time to time.
(d)
A member of the planning commission who does not attend three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings of the planning commission shall automatically be removed as a member with no further action being necessary.
(e)
Any member of the planning commission who files a declaration of intention to accept campaign contributions to finance a campaign for an elective public office on a local, state or federal level shall resign from the planning commission at the time of such filing.
(f)
The board of commissioners may from time to time promulgate bylaws to provide for and govern the operation of the planning commission. If there is any conflict between the provisions in the bylaws and the provisions of this chapter or applicable federal or state laws, the provisions of this chapter or the applicable federal and state laws shall govern.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-4; Ord. No. 03-11, § 1, 10-7-2003; Ord. No. 07-12, §§ 1—5, 12-18-2007)
Cross reference— Boards and commissioners, § 2-186 et seq.
Sec. 90-5. - Official zoning map.
(a)
The boundaries of the various zoning districts of the county shall be shown upon the official zoning map of the county. The official zoning map is made a part of this chapter, and all notations, references and other information shown on such map shall be a part of this chapter as if set forth in this section.
(b)
The official zoning map, as adopted by the board of commissioners and subsequently amended from time to time by its action, shall be maintained as revised by the director of the county.
(c)
Effective March 1, 1998, the official zoning map of the county shall be the digital zoning map which has been developed by the county planning and development services division in conjunction with Zimmerman, Evans and Leopold Engineers, which shall be maintained in a digital format, a large size format suitable for wall mounting and a binder-type book format where pages may be substituted.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-5)
Sec. 90-6. - Zoning districts established.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following zoning districts are established:
(1)
Residential zoning districts:
EXPAND
R-A Residential-agricultural district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-1A Single-family residential district
R-2 Single-family residential district
R-3 Single-family residential district
R-3A Single-family and two-family residential district
R-4 Recreation residential district
T-R Townhouse residential district
A-R Apartment residential district
  (2)
Nonresidential zoning districts:
EXPAND
C-1 Neighborhood commercial district
C-C Community commercial district
C-2 General commercial district
C-3 Heavy commercial district
M-1 Light industrial district
M-2 General industrial district
P-1 Professional district
S-1 Special district
  (3)
Planned zoning districts:
EXPAND
PUD Planned unit development district
PDD Planned development district
  (4)
Overlay zoning districts:
EXPAND
RCO Residential cluster overlay district
ISO Interstate sign overlay district
GSO General sign overlay district
CSO Community sign overlay district
ETCSO or ETCSOD Evans Town Center sign overlay district
ETCO or ETCOD Evans Town Center overlay district
  (Code 1979, § 2-16-6; Ord. No. 00-4, § 1, 6-20-2000; Ord. No. 02-15, § 1, 11-18-2002; Ord. No. 12-10, § 1, 7-17-2012)
Sec. 90-7. - Interpretation of district boundaries.
(a)
Unless otherwise shown on the official zoning map of the county, the boundary lines of zoning districts are lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys, or such lines extended, railroad right-of-way lines, the centerlines of creeks and streams or municipal corporate boundary lines as they existed at the time of the enactment of this chapter or as pertain at the time of approval of a rezoning of the land in question.
(b)
Zoning district boundary lines not coinciding with lot lines, the centerlines of streets or alleys, or such lines extended, railroad right-of-way lines, the centerlines of creeks or streams, or the corporate lines of any incorporated places in the county shall be determined by use of the scale of the official zoning map of the county, unless actual dimensions are noted.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-7)
Sec. 90-8. - Changes to zoning district boundaries.
(a)
If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed in the official zoning map, changes shall be made on the official zoning map by the director promptly, after the amendment has been approved by the board of commissioners.
(b)
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the final authority as to the current zoning status of land in the county shall be the ordinance as adopted by the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-8)
Sec. 90-9. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning. The term "shall" is always mandatory and not directory; and the word "may" is permissive. The word "used" or "occupied," as applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed" to be used or occupied. Terms not defined in this section shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
Accessory use or structure means a use or structure on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or structure.
Adult use means a building or structure, or portion of a building or structure, which is used or proposed to be used for an adult bookstore, adult entertainment establishment or adult theater.
(1)
Adult bookstore means a store which contains or is used for the display or sale of books, magazines, movie films, still pictures and all other written materials, photographic material, novelties, devices and related items which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or related to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section; or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material constituting a majority of its retail value of stock displayed for sale or a majority of the monthly gross receipts of the business.
(2)
Adult entertainment establishment means an establishment which contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is charged a fee to engage in personal contact with or to allow personal contact by employees, devices, equipment or by personnel provided by the establishment, or where the patron views a series of dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography provided by the establishment which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron.
(3)
Adult theater means a regulated use for the viewing of performances or activities by others, whether such performances are in the form of live shows, motion pictures, slide shows or other forms of photographic or visual display, which are distinguished or characterized by the emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
(4)
Specified anatomical areas mean human genitals and pubic regions, buttocks, the female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, if less than completely and opaquely covered, and human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(5)
Specified sexual activities mean acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy or any acts of bestiality and fondling, or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or breast of either a male or female.
Adverse impact means a negative consequence for the physical, social or economic environment resulting from an action or project.
Agricultural pursuit means all agricultural pursuits, including, but not limited to, field crop farming, forestry, dairying, pasturage, beekeeping, poultry husbandry, plant nursery, gardening and livestock breeding, raising and care, and the necessary accessory uses.
Ancillary dwelling means a structure intended for residential use such as a guest home, caretaker's quarters, or cottage which is located on a lot or tract of land that also contains a separate main or principal dwelling structure.
Animated sign means a sign with action, motion, changing colors, flashing lights or moving characters. Such signs may require electrical energy, but shall also include wind-activated devices, including, but not limited to, spinners, aerial devices and other attention-getting devices. This definition does not include rotating signs that revolve no faster than five revolutions per minute, or electronic message boards which include time and/or temperature no less than 20 seconds out of every minute, and which change messages no more often than 12 times per minute.
Apartment house means a residential building designed or used for three or more apartment dwelling units.
Apartment unit means an individual dwelling unit, each of which has separate cooking facilities, that is located within an apartment house and that is intended for occupancy by a single family. An apartment unit may be rented, leased or owned, however there is typically not an ownership interest in the apartment unit or the common areas and facilities of the property on which the apartment unit is located; however, in certain situations there may be such an ownership interest such as in an apartment cooperative.
Automobile service station or center means a buildings and premises where gasoline, diesel fuel, oil, grease, batteries, tire and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail, and where, in addition, only the following services may be rendered and sales made:
(1)
Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries, distributors and distribution parts;
(2)
Tire servicing and repair, excluding recapping or regrooving;
(3)
Replacement of mufflers and tailpipes, water hoses, fan belts, brake fluid, lightbulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors, etc.;
(4)
Radiator cleaning and flushing;
(5)
Washing and polishing, and the sale of automotive washing and polishing materials;
(6)
Greasing and lubrication;
(7)
Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and fuel and oil lines;
(8)
Emergency wiring repairs;
(9)
Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
(10)
Adjusting and repairing brakes;
(11)
Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or crankcase, or racing the motor;
(12)
Sales of cold drinks, packaged foods, tobacco and similar convenience goods for station customers accessory and incidental to the principal operation;
(13)
Provision of road maps and other informational material to customers; and
(14)
Provision of restroom facilities to customers.
Uses permissible at an automobile service station or center do not include major mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in automobile service stations or centers. An automobile service station or center is not a repair garage or a body shop.
Automobile wrecking means the dismantling, storage, sale or dumping of used, wrecked, damaged or inoperable motor vehicles, trailers or parts thereof.
Awning or canopy sign means an on-premises sign imposed or painted upon or suspended beneath any rooflike structure which provides either permanent or temporary shelter for adjacent walkways or entrances to a building or property. For the purposes of this chapter, such signs shall be regulated as wall signs.
Banner sign means a sign other than an official flag, made of paper, cloth, thin plastic or similar lightweight material, and containing a message or logo.
Bed and breakfast facility means a business establishment operated within a dwelling by the owner-occupant, offering temporary lodging to the traveling public while away from their normal places of residence, and containing no more than seven bedrooms which are available for temporary lodging.
Billboard, if a freestanding structure, means any sign larger than the maximum permitted size of a freestanding sign in the zoning district or sign overlay district where the structure is located. If the billboard is a wall sign or a sign attached to a building, such term shall mean any sign larger than the maximum permitted size for a wall sign in the zoning district or sign overlay district where the sign is located.
Buffer means an area of natural vegetation or manmade construction which is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between dissimilar land uses.
(1)
Natural buffer means a visual screen created by vegetation of such a density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.
(2)
Structural buffer means a visual screen created through construction of a solid wood fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm or a combination of a fence or wall with an earthen berm which may be supplemented with vegetation so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other.
Buildable area of lot means that portion of a lot bounded by and interior to the required rear, side and front building setback lines.
Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
Building area means the total floor area of all heated spaces within a building measured within the inside of the exterior walls, exclusive of uncovered porches, terraces and unheated stairwells, storage areas, garages and loading docks.
Building height means the vertical distance above the average existing grade measured to the highest point of the building.
Building setback line (also referred to as the "principal building setback line") means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance between the property line or the centerline of an abutting street and a principal building on a lot, within which no principal building shall be placed.
(1)
Front principal building setback line means the minimum allowable distance between the centerline of an abutting street, or the property line, and the exterior wall of a principal building on a lot. Roof overhangs may encroach into the building setback, provided that such extension is at least two feet from the vertical plane of any lot line. The front setback line is applied to the full width of the lot, and is parallel to or concentric with the street centerline.
(2)
Rear principal building setback line means the minimum allowable distance between the rear lot line and the exterior wall of a principal building on a lot. Roof overhangs may encroach into the building setback, provided that such extension is at least two feet from the vertical plane of any lot line. The rear setback line applies to and extends along the full length of and is parallel to or concentric with the rear lot line.
(3)
Side principal building setback line means the minimum allowable distance between a side lot line and the exterior wall of a principal building on a lot. Roof overhangs may encroach into the building setback, provided that such extension is at least two feet from the vertical plane of any lot line. The side setback line applies to and is parallel to or concentric with a side lot line, between the front principal building setback line and other principal building setback lines.
Building Setback Lines
Caliper means the diameter of a tree (usually nursery stock) measured at a point six inches above the ground or top of the root ball for up to and including four-inch caliper trees, and at a point 12 inches above the ground or top of the root ball for larger size trees.
Canopy means a type of building that is a rooflike structure supported by columns or projecting from a building and open on at least three sides.
Car wash means the use of mechanical facilities for washing, cleaning and detailing of automobiles, pick-up trucks, passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, or other light duty equipment.
Cattery means a building which is soundproof, heated and air conditioned where domestic housecats are boarded, kept and cared for on a temporary basis. Retail items specific to domestic housecats may be sold in such a facility.
Centerline means the line determined as the centerline of a street by the official authority having jurisdiction over the street; otherwise, it shall be the succession of midpoints between the identifiable limits of any improvements on the ground or of any easement.
Clinic means an establishment where medical or dental patients, who are not lodged overnight, are admitted for examination or treatment.
Common area shall have the same meaning as open space.
Conditional use means a use that may be compatible with other uses in a zoning district under certain circumstances or with special restrictions. Establishment of a conditional use on a property requires approval by the board of commissioners in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
Condominium unit means a residential or commercial unit located in a building, consisting of the interior air space bounded by designated exterior walls, ceilings and floors and in addition to this airspace consists of designated undivided interests in common elements and limited common elements that make up the overall condominium development. Each condominium unit is a separate parcel of real estate and is owned by a fee simple title or an interest therein.
Construction sign means a temporary sign erected and maintained on a premises during construction to identify a construction project for which a building or grading permit has been issued.
Convenience gas station, food and/or general merchandise stores means a building and premises where gasoline, diesel fuel and oil may be dispensed at retail, with no automobile repair facilities. Uses permissible also include the sale of cold drinks, snacks, packaged goods, other food products, tobacco and similar convenience goods for customers.
Corner lot. See the definition of Lot in this section.
Day care center means an establishment that is required to be licensed by the state as a group care home or a day care center, as defined by regulations of the state, or which otherwise enrolls, for pay, supervision and nonmedical care, seven or more children or adults.
Diameter breast height (DBH) means the diameter of a tree trunk (usually a mature tree) measured at a height of 4½ feet above the ground. If a tree splits into multiple trunks below 4½ feet, the trunk shall be measured at its most narrow point beneath the split.
Director means the director of the county department of planning and development services as designated by the board of commissioners, or his designee.
Double frontage lot. See the definition of Lot in this section.
Drive-in, commercial business, means a retail or service enterprise oriented to automobile driving patrons wherein service is provided to the consumer while in their automobiles rather than within a building or structure, other than drive-in restaurants and drive-in theaters.
Dwelling means a building or portion of a building arranged or designed to provide living quarters for one or more families on a permanent or long term basis.
(1)
Single-family detached dwelling means a residential building, whether site-built, a manufactured /mobile home or an industrialized/modular building, designed for or occupied by one family, including:
a.
Site-built single-family detached dwelling means a single-family detached dwelling constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, and which is constructed in accordance with all requirements of the building codes adopted by the county, and meets or exceeds the standards for single-family and two-family dwellings under section 90-131(7).
b.
Industrialized/modular building (residential) means any dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. For the purposes of this chapter, once certified by the State of Georgia, modular homes shall be subject to the same standards as site-built homes.
(2)
Two-family dwelling means a residential building designed exclusively for occupancy by two families in separate dwelling units living independently of each other, including:
a.
Site-built two-family dwelling means a two-family dwelling constructed on the building site from basic materials delivered to the site, and which is constructed in accordance with all requirements of the building codes adopted by the county, and meets or exceeds the standards for single-family and two-family dwellings under section 90-131(7).
b.
Industrialized/modular two-family building means a two-family dwelling which is designed and constructed as described in subsection (1)b. immediately above in the definition of "industrialized/modular building (residential)."
(3)
Group dwelling means a building or portion of a building occupied or intended for occupancy by several unrelated persons or families as their normal place of residence, but in which separate cooking facilities are not provided for such resident persons or families. This term includes, but is not limited to, the terms "rooming house," "apartment hotel," "fraternity house" or "sorority house." A hotel, motel or tourist home shall not be deemed to be a group dwelling.
(4)
Multifamily dwelling means a dwelling on a single lot, designed for or occupied by three or more families living independently of each other, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
(5)
Townhouse or row house dwelling means one of a series of three or more attached one-family dwelling units on separate lots which:
a.
May or may not have a common roof;
b.
Shall not have a common exterior wall;
c.
Are separated from each other by fire restrictive party wall partitions extending at least from the lowest floor level to the roof.
Dwelling unit means one or more connected rooms constituting a separate, independent housekeeping establishment for use on a basis involving owner occupancy, rental or lease on a weekly, monthly or longer basis, with provisions for cooking, eating and sleeping, and physically set apart from any other rooms or dwelling units in the same structure.
Electronic message board means a type of sign that presents its message through illumination of flashing, intermittent or moving lights forming the letters, numbers or symbols of the message, whether or not the message appears to move across the sign face.
Exempt sign means a sign that does not require a permit as set forth in section 90-135(10).
Family means one or more persons living together as a household. Domestic servants employed on the premises may be housed on the premises.
Fast food restaurant means an establishment, building or structure where food or drink are served for consumption, either on or off the premises, by order from or service to persons either over an interior counter, outside the structure, from an outdoor service window or automobile service window, or by delivery. This definition shall not include otherwise permitted restaurants where outdoor table service is provided to customers in established outdoor dining areas.
Fence means a barrier constructed of wood, vinyl, wire, wire mesh or decorative metal or any other materials, erected to enclose, screen or separate portions of a lot.
Flag. See the definitions of "Banner," "Official flag," "Pennant," "Streamer" and "Unofficial flag" in this section.
Freestanding sign means a sign permanently attached to the ground which is located on a tract of land that also contains an operating commercial or industrial building or a building which is actually being used for professional offices as permitted in zoning district P-1.
Freestanding wall means a barrier constructed of concrete, brick, stone or other masonry materials, or any combination of masonry and decorative metal, erected to enclose, screen or separate portions of a lot. For the purposes of this chapter, this term includes retaining walls, but excludes any wall that is a structural part of a building.
Green space means land that is owned and maintained by Columbia County for the use and benefit of the general public. This space shall be set aside in perpetuity for permanent protection to be included as part of Columbia County's Green Space Program that can be used for passive recreation purposes.
Greenhouses, nursery, or landscaping business means an establishment which specializes in horticultural and floricultural products that are grown outdoors or in open or enclosed buildings, and/or offers products and services to clients that involve planting and caring for said products.
Gross floor area means the total area of all floors of a building, measured from the outside planes of the exterior walls.
Growth management plan means a document, composed of text and associated maps, entitled as the growth management plan, and adopted by the board of commissioners, as amended from time to time in accordance with the requirements of the Georgia Comprehensive Planning Act.
High density residential zoning district means a zoning district established to provide for the development of townhouse or apartment residential units which shall include the T-R and A-R districts.
Household means an individual living alone or a group of individuals living together in a single dwelling unit, sharing common use of and access to all living and eating areas, bathrooms and food preparation areas, who mutually combine their efforts and share responsibilities for domestic chores such as child rearing, cleaning and cooking in a permanent and longterm relationship, as contrasted to one in a transient relationship who pays for lodging such as a boarder.
Identification sign means an on-site sign giving the address of the building or premises, and the name of the occupant thereof.
Improved lands means lands that have had improvements made on them which enhance the physical, social or economic state of that property.
Incidental sign means an announcement or other display providing information about the occupancy or conduct of business permitted on a premises, such as logos of credit cards accepted on the premises, hours of operation, a "closed" or "open sign," emergency contact person's name and telephone number, street address, "help wanted," "no loitering or solicitations," "no trespassing," "no hunting," security system notices, signs required by law and similar information.
Industrialized/modular building (commercial) means any commercial building designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Code which is wholly or in substantial part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure shall not contain a permanent chassis and shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. For the purposes of this chapter, once certified by the State of Georgia, industrialized/modular buildings shall be subject to the same standards as site-built buildings.
Inflatable sign means a sign which can be inflated with air or gas, and mounted or flown over a site.
Instructional sign means an on-site sign used to give directions or specific instructions to the public, such as, but not limited to, "Enter," "Exit," "No Parking," "Drive Through," "Restroom," etc. Such signs shall contain only instructional information, and shall not be used for the purpose of a business name and/or advertisement, other than the occupant's logo on the parking area entrance and exit signs.
Interior lot. See the definition of Lot in this section.
Junkyard or salvage yard means a lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the collecting, storage or sale of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other discarded material, and for the collecting, dismantling, storage or salvage of machinery or vehicles not in running condition, or for the sale of parts of such machinery or vehicles.
Kennel means a shelter where dogs or cats are bred, raised, trained or boarded as a business and for animal rescue for more than five animals.
Light industrial operations means predominantly indoor industrial activities involving only those operations generating no significant particulate or gaseous emission which could create harmful or unpleasant effects outside the immediate area of activity and includes operations such as assembly, binding, bottling, engraving, fabricating, freezing, grinding, optical goods, packaging, printing, processing, welding, research, storing, or testing of previously manufactured components or previously prepared materials.
Livestock includes cattle, sheep, horses, goats, and other domestic animals ordinarily raised or used on the farm. Livestock does not include cats or dogs.
Loading space means a space within the main building or on the same lot with the main building, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of trucks, buses or other vehicles.
Lot means a parcel or tract of land held in one ownership, which may include one or more separately deeded or platted parcels.
(1)
Corner lot means any lot bounding the intersection of two streets.
(2)
Double frontage lot means a lot bounding on two or more streets, but not at the intersection of such streets, so that it is not a corner lot.
(3)
Interior lot means a lot bounded on only one side by a street.
Type of Lots
Lot area means the total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot depth means the distance measured along a line extending from a lot's frontage, through the midpoint of the lot's width, to the midpoint of a lot's rear property line. For a lot that has more than one frontage, the depth shall be measured from the shortest frontage line. For a lot that has no rear property line, the depth shall be measured at a right angle (90 degrees) to the lot width. For a lot that has more than one rear property line, the depth shall be measured to the midpoint of the property line most nearly opposite and parallel to the lot width.

Measurement of Lot Depth
Lot frontage means the length of a lot line abutting the right-of-way line of a public street or the easement line of a private street from which access is or may be gained to the lot. A lot may have more than one frontage.
Lot lines means the boundary dividing a given lot from the street, an alley or adjacent lots.
(1)
Front lot line means a boundary line of a lot that corresponds with a public street right-of-way line or private street boundary line. A lot adjacent to more than one street will have more than one front lot line.
(2)
Rear lot line means a boundary line of a lot that does not intersect with a public street right-of-way line or private street easement line, and is not a front lot line.
(3)
Side lot line means a boundary line of a lot that intersects with a public street right-of-way line or private street easement line, and is not a front lot line.

Types of Lot Lines
Lot of record means a lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office of the clerk of superior court.
Low-impact development means a design approach to managing stormwater runoff through the implementation of small-scale hydrologic controls to replicate the pre-development hydrologic regime of the watershed through infiltrating, filtering, storing, evaporating and detaining runoff close to its source.
Lot width means the distance measured along and following the line of the front principal building setback line between the points of intersection of the front principal building setback line with the property's lot lines.
Low-moderate density residential zoning district means a zoning district established to provide for the development of single-family and two-family residential dwellings which shall include the R-A, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-3A and R-4 districts.
Manufactured home park means a plot or tract of land on which two or more manufactured homes are to be located or are intended to be located for purposes of residential occupancy.
Manufactured/mobile home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
(1)
Double-wide manufactured home means a home which meets all of the requirements of a manufactured home and which is typically 24 feet wide.
(2)
Single-wide manufactured home means a home which meets all of the requirements of a manufactured home and which is typically 14 feet wide.
Massage means the manipulation and treatment of soft tissues of the body, including the use of effleurage, petrissage, pressure, friction, tapotement, kneading, vibration, range of motion stretches and any other soft tissue manipulation, whether manual or by mechanical or electrical apparatus, and may include the use of oils, lotions, creams, salt glows, hydrotherapy, heliotherapy and hot and cold packs. Massage services shall include the practice of Reiki.
Mobile vending unit means a self-contained, purpose-built food service, retail, or service establishment that is vehicle-mounted or wheeled and is capable of being readily moveable.
Monument sign means a freestanding sign in which the entire bottom of the sign structure is in contact with the ground, providing a solid and continuous background for the sign face from the ground to the top of the sign.
Motel or hotel means a business establishment offering temporary lodging to the traveling public while away from their normal places of residence, and containing more than seven bedrooms which are intended for temporary lodging. (See also the definitions of "Bed and breakfast facility" and "Tourist home" in this section.)
Multifaced sign means a sign structure that contains two or more sign face surfaces that are located on different sides of the structure, and are separated from each other at their nearest point by no more than three feet.
Nonconforming sign means a sign which, at the time it was erected, complied with all laws then applicable to it, but which does not conform with the requirements of subsequent amendments to such applicable laws.
Nonconforming use means a building, structure or use of land lawfully existing at the time of enactment of this chapter or at the time of approval of any amendment to the text of this chapter or the official zoning map which does not comply with or conform to the provisions of the zoning district in which it is located.
Nonresidential zoning district means a zoning district established to provide for the development of office, commercial, industrial or similar uses which shall include the P-1, C-1, C-C, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2 and S-1 districts.
Occupant directory sign means a sign listing the occupants or tenants of a building or group of buildings, including their respective professions or business activities, and their location within the building or group of buildings.
Official flag means a cloth, paper, thin plastic or similar material, which is displayed by hanging or flying, representing, in whole, the officially adopted symbol or emblem of a government, political subdivision, person, institution, organization or corporation.
On-site sign means a sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on which it is located.
Opaque means impenetrable to view, or so obscuring to view that features, buildings, structures and uses, as the case may be, become visually indistinguishable.
Open space is land within a development that is generally undeveloped and set aside for public or private use. Open space may be land either preserved in its natural condition or revegetated, and may accommodate community amenities and active or passive recreation. Green space, as defined by this section, may be counted toward a development's open space requirement. Stormwater infrastructure shall not be counted toward the required open space, unless designed as part of a low-impact system that utilizes bio-swales and natural recharge areas. Utility easements shall not be counted toward the required open space, unless utilized as part of a common trail network or other amenity. Excavated or filled slopes steeper than six horizontal to one vertical (6H:1V) shall not be counted toward the required open space.
Operating commercial or industrial building means a structure located on property zoned for commercial or industrial use which has been in operation as a commercial or industrial enterprise for more than 60 days, and which maintains operating hours of 30 hours or more per week. The term shall also include such commercial or industrial buildings that are temporarily vacant, but for which the sale or lease of the property or building is being actively sought by the owner.
Outdoor display area means a portion of a property outside of a building where merchandise, goods or other items are placed in public view for the purpose of advertising or for sale or lease. An area under a permanent canopy, roofline, or enclosure is not considered an outdoor display area.
Outdoor storage means the keeping, within an unroofed area, of any goods, material, merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
Overlay zoning district means a zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zoning districts, and that imposes additional requirements or grants additional rights as a supplement to those required or permitted by the underlying zoning district.
Park space means land that is owned and maintained by Columbia County for the use and benefit of the general public. This space shall be set aside to be included as part of Columbia County's Recreation Master Plan that can be used for active or passive recreation purposes.
Parking bay means three or more parking spaces adjacent to one another and aligned side-by-side.
Pennant means a lightweight plastic, fabric or similar material, not containing a message or logo of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string, usually in a series, designed to move in the wind. This term shall not include a banner or an official flag, as such terms are defined in this section.
Permanent sign means a sign determined to meet the structural and construction requirements for signs according to the county's building codes.
Personal care home means a dwelling, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes, through its ownership or management, to provide or arrange for the provision of housing, food service and one or more personal care services for two or more adults who are not related to the owner or administrator by blood or marriage.
(1)
Congregate personal care home means a personal care home that offers care to 16 or more adults.
(2)
Family personal care home means a personal care home in a family type residence, noninstitutional in character, that offers care for two to six adults.
(3)
Group personal care home means a personal care home that offers care for seven to 15 adults.
Personal care service means individual assistance with or supervision of self-administered medication and essential activities of daily living such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and toileting.
Planned center means a building or group of buildings in close proximity to each other that are operated under a common promotional plan, occupied by six or more retail stores, service establishments, offices, industries or any other business.
Planned zoning district means a zoning district where a variety of residential and nonresidential uses are permitted on the basis of a master plan and other specific development controls, and includes the PUD and PDD districts.
Planning commission means the county planning commission as established in section 90-4.
Political sign means a sign identifying and/or urging voter support for a particular election issue, political party or candidate for public office.
Portable sign means a sign designed to be transported or easily relocated and not permanently attached to the ground, a foundation or other permanent structure, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)
A sign designed to be temporarily placed on the ground, whether or not affixed to the ground with stakes or other nonpermanent devices.
(2)
A sign mounted on a trailer, with or without wheels.
(3)
An A-frame or sandwich board sign.
(4)
An umbrella used for advertising.
(5)
A sign mounted or painted upon a parked vehicle which is positioned for the primary purpose of acting as a sign exposed to the public, and is not in use in the ordinary course of carrying out its transportation function.
(6)
A sign mounted or painted upon a vehicle which is operated on the public streets for the primary purpose of presenting a message or symbol offering or supporting the sale, rent, lease, loan or other availability of any property, product or service, and is not otherwise in use in the normal course of transporting people, merchandise or freight.
Principal building means a building constructed on a tract of land in which the principal use is conducted.
Principal use means the specific, primary purpose for which land or a building is used.
Private club means a recreational facility for the exclusive use of the members, and their guests, of the private organization operating the facility.
Private schools means an educational institution other than a public school which offers instruction in primary, secondary, or post-secondary education where instruction is given in the vocational, professional, or recreational fields.
Professional offices means an establishment used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, or service industry such as accountants, architects, data processing, doctors, dentists, engineering, insurance agents, lawyers, real estate agents, sales offices, and similar services.
Project entrance sign means a sign identifying the name of a residential subdivision, multifamily development, office park or industrial park, located at a discernible entrance into the subdivision, development or park.
Projecting sign means a sign affixed to a wall, and projecting more than 18 inches from the surface of such wall.
Property owner means an individual or group of individuals, or a corporation, partnership, trust or other legal entity having title to a parcel of real estate. If there are multiple owners, all owners collectively shall constitute the property owner.
Public sewerage means a sanitary sewerage system for the collection of waterborne wastes, complete with a sewerage treatment plant or stabilization pond. The entire system must be either operated by the county or a municipality within the county, or have been approved by the county and county health department, in the case of a privately owned system.
Radial lot means a lot with frontage on a curve or cul-de-sac.
Real estate directional sign means an off-site sign which conveys directions to a specific real estate property for sale or lease, such as a real estate development, residential subdivision, apartment or condominium project, home for sale, apartment for rent or any other real estate property which is for sale or lease.
Real estate sign means a temporary sign advertising the sale, rent or lease of the property on which it is located.
Residential zoning district means a zoning district established under article II of this chapter for the development of single-family, two-family and multifamily dwellings which shall include the R-A, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-3A, R-4, T-R and A-R districts.
Restaurant means an establishment where food and drink are prepared to individual order, ordered and served at the table and consumed primarily within the principal building, as contrasted to a fast food restaurant.
Retirement community means an age-restricted development which offers significant services and facilities for the elderly, including social and recreational activities, personal care services or health facilities limited to use by the development's residents. At least 80 percent of the units must be occupied by residents who are 62 years of age or older, and the remaining units must be occupied by at least one resident who is 55 years of age or older.
Roof sign means a sign or graphic erected or maintained on a building, any portion of which extends above the lowest horizontal line of the roof.
Self-expression sign means a sign limited in its content to an idea, opinion or belief of the owner or occupant of the property upon which it is placed, and excluding any message or symbol offering or supporting the sale, rent, lease, loan or free availability of any property, product or service, whether on the premises or not.
Shopping center means a planned center which is one of the following three types of shopping centers:
(1)
Community shopping center means a shopping center that consists entirely or primarily of service, convenience and retail shopping goods outlets, with the largest tenant occupying no more than 70,000 square feet of gross floor area, often containing a grocery store or junior department store as the primary anchor, but generally not having enclosed air conditioned malls and similar amenities typical of major shopping centers.
(2)
Major shopping center means a shopping center having a primary anchor tenant occupying more than 70,000 square feet of gross floor area, and offering the full range of retail commercial outlets.
(3)
Neighborhood shopping center means a shopping center that consists entirely or primarily of personal service and convenience goods outlets, with the largest tenant occupying no more than 35,000 square feet of gross floor area, generally not containing enclosed air conditioned malls and similar amenities typical of major shopping centers.
Sign means a structure, display or device that is used to advertise, identify, direct or attract attention to a business, institution, organization, person, idea, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, design characteristics, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, movement or illumination.
Sign face means the portion of the surface of a sign structure where words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors or other design elements are or may be located in order to convey the message, idea or intent for which the sign has been erected or placed. The sign face may be composed of two or more modules on the same surface that are separated or surrounded by portions of a sign structure not intended to contain any advertising message or idea and are purely structural or decorative in nature.
Sign face module means each portion or unit of a sign face that is clearly separable from other such units by virtue of the expression of a complete thought, message, logo or idea.
Specimen tree means any tree or grouping of trees that has been determined to be of high value because of its species, size, age, location or historic value. Generally, a tree is considered a specimen tree if it has achieved a diameter breast height of 24 inches for a deciduous canopy tree and 30 inches for an evergreen canopy tree.
State road system means all streets, roads and highways designated as interstate highways, U.S.-numbered or state route-numbered highways; more specifically, those roads designated by the state department of transportation and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the provisions of 23 USC § 103.
Streamer means a long narrow banner, pennant or strip of fabric or other material.
Street means a road or street that is classified as one of the following:
(1)
Arterial street means a road identified as a major arterial or minor arterial in the county growth management plan, as most recently adopted or amended.
(2)
Collector street means a road identified as a major collector or minor collector in the county growth management plan, as most recently adopted or amended.
(3)
Local street or land service street means a road identified as such, or not otherwise identified as a major or minor arterial or a major or minor collector street in the county growth management plan, as most recently adopted or amended.
(4)
Service drive means a road identified as such in the current county official road register.
Structure means anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Structures include, but are not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes, swimming pools, decks and patios, parking lots, walls, fences, billboards and poster panels.
Temporary sign means a nonpermanent sign lasting for a limited time, but not including a portable sign.
Tiny house means a dwelling that is 400 square feet or less in floor area, excluding lofts, as defined in the 2018 International Residential Code, ancillary dwellings, and manufactured/mobile homes. Tiny houses shall include tiny houses built on trailers or permanent chassis or are otherwise mobile.
Tourist home means a business establishment operated within a dwelling, offering temporary lodging to the traveling public while away from their normal places of residence, and containing no more than seven bedrooms which are available for temporary lodging.
Travel trailer means a motorized camper, converted bus, tent trailer, motor home or other similar vehicle or portable structure which is used or designed for temporary portable housing or occupancy while on vocational, recreational or other trips, and provided with sleeping accommodations.
Travel trailer park means a lot on which two or more travel trailers are located or intended to be located for purposes of occupancy.
Tree means a woody plant having one erect perennial stem or trunk, a more or less definitely formed crown of foliage, and a height of at least 13 feet (at maturity).
Unofficial flag means a cloth, paper, thin plastic or similar material which is displayed by hanging or flying, and which is not an official flag, banner, pennant or streamer.
Usable project area means the portion of a development parcel which can be devoted to buildings and structures. Generally, areas outside of floodplains, wetlands, and stream buffers are considered usable project area.
Use means the purpose for which land, a building or other structure is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. (See also the definitions of "Principal use" and "Accessory use or structure" in this section.)
Wall sign means a sign fastened, placed or painted upon and parallel to the exterior wall or door of a building, whether on the front, rear or side of the structure. For the purposes of this chapter, awning and canopy signs shall be regulated as wall signs.
Window sign means a sign that is placed on or behind a window pane and is intended to be viewed from outside the building.
Worship directional sign means an off-site sign which conveys directions to a specific church or place of worship.
Yard means an area that lies between the principal building on a lot and the nearest lot line.
(1)
Front yard means a yard situated along any public street right-of-way or private street easement.
(2)
Rear yard means a yard situated along a rear lot line.
(3)
Side yard means a yard situated along a side lot line, but does not extend into a front or rear yard.

Types of Yards
Zoning change means an action by the board of commissioners causing a change in the boundary of a zoning district so as to change the zoning district or overlay district designation on a property or a portion of a property, or causes the establishment of a conditional use on such property.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-9; Ord. No. 99-17, § 1, 11-16-1999; Ord. No. 00-8, § 1, 8-15-2000; Ord. No. 01-11, § 3, 11-6-2001; Ord. No. 02-16, § 1, 2-18-2003; Ord. No. 11-01, § 1, 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 12-04, § 1(Exh. A), 5-15-2012; Ord. No. 12-11, § 1(Exh. A), 7-17-2012; Ord. No. 12-14, § 1(Exh. A(1)), 12-18-2012; Ord. No. 14-07, §§ 1, 2, 8-5-2014; Ord. No. 14-20, § 1, 12-16-2014; Ord. No. 15-07, § 1, 3-31-2015; Ord. No. 15-08, § 1, 3-31-2015; Ord. No. 15-18, § 1, 6-16-2015; Ord. No. 15-23, §§ 1, 2, 8-18-2015; Ord. No. 16-12 , §§ 1, 2, 6-7-2016; Ord. No. 19-09 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2019)
Cross reference— Definitions generally, § 1-2.
Secs. 90-10—90-40. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

Sec. 90-41. - R-A residential-agricultural district.
The R-A residential-agricultural district is established to provide for rural farm or very low density, nonsuburban development in areas where intensive land development is not desired due to limited ability to provide public services and facilities. The minimum lot size in the R-A district is 2½ acres, with the exception of legal lots of record existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter. The land uses permitted in this district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-20)
Sec. 90-42. - R-1 single-family residential district.
The R-1 single-family residential district is established to provide low density, suburban development on lots served by public water, but that may not have access to the public sewer. The R-1 district is designed to serve as a transition between R-A and R-1A districts. The minimum lot size in the R-1 district is 30,000 square feet if served by the public sewer and 40,000 square feet if sewer service is not available. The land uses permitted in the R-1 district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-21)
Sec. 90-43. - R1-A single-family residential district.
The R-1A single-family residential district is established for the development of low to medium density single-family residential uses. The R-1A district is designed to serve as a transition between the R-1 and R-2 districts. Uses in the R-1A district must be served by public water and sewer. The minimum lot size in the R-1A district is 20,000 square feet. The land uses permitted in the R-1A district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-21.1)
Sec. 90-44. - R-2 single-family residential district.
(a)
[Established.] The R-2 single-family residential district is established to provide for the development of medium density single-family residential uses. Uses in the R-2 district must be served by public water and sewer. The minimum lot size in the R-2 district is 10,000 square feet. The land uses permitted in the R-2 district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(b)
Special requirements. For property rezoned to R-2 in 2012 or at a later date a minimum of ten percent of the property shall be set aside as common space. The buffer requirement in subsection 90-139(7) may be included in this calculation.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-22; Ord. No. 12-03, § 1(Exh. A), 5-15-2012)
Sec. 90-45. - R-3 single-family residential district.
(a)
[Established.] The R-3 single-family residential district is established to provide for high density single-family residential development. Uses in the R-3 district must be served by public water and sewer. The minimum lot size in the R-3 district is 7,500 square feet. The land uses permitted in the R-3 district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(b)
Special requirements. For property rezoned to R-3 in 2012 or at a later date a minimum of ten percent of the property shall be set aside as common space. The buffer requirement in subsection 90-139(7) may be included in this calculation.
(c)
Limitation on R-3 single-family residential district. No property in the unincorporated areas of Columbia County will be zoned for an R-3 single-family residential district after the effective date of this section and no application to rezone property to an R-3 single-family residential district will be accepted after the effective date of this ordinance. All parcels of land zoned as R-3 single-family residential district as of the effective date of this ordinance [from which this subsection derives] shall continue with that zoning designation until such property is rezoned in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-23; Ord. No. 12-03, § 1(Exh. A), 5-15-2012; Ord. No. 15-14, § 1, 6-16-2015)
Sec. 90-46. - R-3A single-family and two-family residential district.
(a)
[Established.] The R-3A single-family and two-family residential district is established to provide for high density single-family and two-family residential development. Uses in the R-3A district must be served by public water and sewer. The minimum lot size in the R-3A district for single-family development is 7,500 square feet, and for two-family development, the minimum lot size is 10,000 square feet. The land uses permitted in the R-3A district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(b)
Special requirements. For property rezoned to R-3A in 2012 or at a later date a minimum of ten percent of the property shall be set aside as common space. The buffer requirement in subsection 90-139(7) may be included in this calculation.
(c)
Limitation on R-3A single-family and two-family residential district. No property in the unincorporated areas of Columbia County will be zoned for an R-3A single-family and two-family residential district after the effective date of this section and no application to rezone property to an R-3A single-family and two-family residential district will be accepted after the effective date of this ordinance [from which this subsection derives]. All parcels of land zoned as R-3A single-family and two-family residential district as of the effective date of this ordinance shall continue with that zoning designation until such property is rezoned in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-24; Ord. No. 12-03, § 1(Exh. A), 5-15-2012; Ord. No. 15-15, § 1, 6-16-2015)
Sec. 90-47. - R-4 recreational residential district.
The R-4 recreational residential district is established to provide for low density residential development related to Clarks Hill Lake. The R-4 district is intended to permit only those residential and related recreational uses of land and structures, and to exclude all those activities not compatible with the character of recreational-residential areas. The minimum lot size in the R-4 district is 40,000 square feet, with the exception of legal lots of record existing at the time of the enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived. The land uses permitted in the R-4 district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-25; Ord. No. 14-09, § 1, 9-16-2014)
Sec. 90-48. - T-R townhouse residential district.
(a)
Established. The T-R townhouse residential district is established to provide for the development of townhouse residential units at a density not greater than eight units per acre. Uses in the T-R district must be served by public water and sewer. It is intended that the T-R district serve as a transition between single-family detached houses and existing commercial and apartment zoning districts, or areas designated for a commercial and apartment development in the growth management plan. The land uses permitted in the T-R district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(b)
Special requirements. A minimum of ten percent of the site approved for a development under the T-R district shall be set aside as open space, a portion of which shall be improved with active recreation facilities, including play equipment suitable for children.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-26)
Sec. 90-49. - A-R and A-R10 apartment residential districts.
(a)
Established. The A-R apartment residential district is established for development of multifamily residential dwellings at a density of not greater that 14 units per acre, which have ample open space, recreational areas and off-street parking. Uses in A-R district must be served by public water and sewer. The land uses permitted in the A-R district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53.
(b)
Limitation on A-R apartment residential districts. No property in the unincorporated areas of Columbia County will be zoned for an A-R apartment residential district after the effective date of this section and no application to rezone property to an A-R apartment residential district will be accepted after January 1, 2011. All parcels of land zoned as an A-R apartment residential district as of January 1, 2011 shall continue with that zoning designation until such property is rezoned in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(c)
A-R10 apartment residential district established. The A-R10 apartment residential district is established for development of multifamily residential dwellings at a density of not greater than ten units per acre, which have ample open space, recreational areas and off-street parking. Uses in the A-R10 apartment residential district must be served by public water and sewer. It is intended that the A-R10 apartment residential district be located within the Tier 1 and Tier 2 nodes on the growth management plan. The land uses permitted in the A-R10 apartment residential district shall be as set forth in section 90-50, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-53 of this chapter.
(d)
Special requirements applicable to the A-R apartment residential district and the A-R10 apartment residential district. A minimum of ten percent of the site approved for a development under the A-R apartment residential district and A-R10 apartment residential district shall be set aside as usable open space, a portion of which shall be improved with active recreation facilities, including play equipment suitable for children. The amenities shall be installed in full before 50 percent of the building construction is complete. It is intended that any new apartment developments shall be encouraged to be located within nodes, based on the growth management plan.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-27; Ord. No. 11-02, § 1, 3-1-2011)
Sec. 90-50. - Allowed uses.
(a)
Use table.
(1)
Allowed use (A). Indicates a use is allowed in the respective district. The use is also subject to all other applicable requirements of the Code.
(2)
Limited use (L). Indicates a use is allowed in the respective district, subject to a use standard found in the right-hand column of the use table. The use is also subject to all other applicable requirements of the Code.
(3)
Conditional use (C). Indicates a use may be allowed in the respective district only where approved by the board of commissioners in accordance with section 90-180.
(4)
Use not allowed. A blank cell indicates that a use is not allowed in the respective district.
EXPAND
Use Category Residential Definition/
Standards
Specific Use R-A R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-3A R-4 T-R A-R A-R10
Agricultural Uses
All agriculture, except as listed below: A L L 90-147(d)
Barn, pole barn, storage structure L L L 90-147(d)(3)
Small-scale agriculture L L L L L L L L L L 90-147(d)(4)
Timber harvesting L L L 90-147(d)(5)
Residential Uses
All household living, as listed below: 90-147(e)
Single-family detached A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(e)(1)b.
Two-family A A A A 90-147(e)(1)c.
Townhouse A A A 90-147(e)(1)d.
Multi-family A A 90-147(e)(1)e.
Manufactured home, single-wide L C 90-147(e)(1)f.
Manufactured home, double-wide A A 90-147(e)(1)f.
Manufactured home park 90-147(e)(1)g.
Tiny house on wheels L L 90-147(e)(1)h.
Tiny house on wheels community 90-147(e)(1)i.
All group living, as listed below: 90-147(e)(2)
Continuing care retirement community 90-147(e)(2)b.
Group home A A A A A A A A 90-147(e)(2)c.
Hospice 90-147(e)(2)d.
Institutional residential (up to 18 residents) C C 90-147(e)(2)e.
Institutional residential (more than 18 residents) C C 90-147(e)(2)e.
Monastery, convent 90-147(e)(2)f.
All social service and educational 90-147(e)(3)
Public/Institutional Uses
All civic, as listed below: 90-147(f)(1)
College, university 90-147(f)(1)b.
Club or lodge, nonprofit 90-147(f)(1)c.
Museum, library 90-147(f)(1)d.
Nonprofit service organization 90-147(f)(1)e.
Place of worship 90-147(f)(1)f.
Public use 90-147(f)(1)g.
School, private (K-12) 90-147(f)(1)h.
School, special 90-147(f)(1)i.
All parks and open space, as listed below: 90-147(f)(2)
Cemetery 90-147(f)(2)b.
Community recreation L L L L L L L L L L 90-147(f)(2)c.
Conservation area A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)d.
Golf course 90-147(f)(2)e.
Park, recreation field (up to 2 acres) A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)f.
Park, recreation field (more than 2 acres) A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)f.
Reservoir, water supply, water well A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)g.
All major utilities, except as listed below: 90-147(f)(3)
Telecommunication tower 90-147(f)(3)b.
All minor utilities L L L L L L L L L L 90-147(f)(4)
Commercial Uses
All day care, as listed below: 90-147(g)(1)
Adult care center (fewer than 7 aging adults) L L L L L L 90-147(g)(1)b.
Adult care center (7 or more aging adults) 90-147(g)(1)b.
Day care center (fewer than 7 children) L L L L L L L L 90-147(g)(1)c.
Day care center (7 or more children) 90-147(g)(1)c.
All indoor recreation, except as listed below: 90-147(g)(2)
Adult business 90-147(g)(2)b.
Gym, health spa, yoga studio 90-147(g)(2)c.
School of the arts 90-147(g)(2)d.
Shooting range 90-147(g)(2)e.
Special event facility 90-147(g)(2)f.
All medical 90-147(g)(3)
Social service, medical 90-147(g)(3)b.
All office, except as listed below: 90-147(g)(4)
Bail bonds 90-147(g)(4)c.
Call center 90-147(g)(4)d.
Radio, TV station, recording studio 90-147(g)(4)e.
Trade, vocational, business school 90-147(g)(4)f.
All outdoor recreation, except as listed below: 90-147(g)(5)
Commercial marina 90-147(g)(5)b.
Firearm training and sports facility 90-147(g)(5)c.
Riding stable A L L 90-147(g)(5)d.
All overnight lodging, as listed below: 90-147(g)(6)
Bed and breakfast (up to 6 rooms) C C C 90-147(g)(6)b.
Boutique hotel (7 to 30 rooms) 90-147(g)(6)c.
Hotel/motel (more than 30 rooms) 90-147(g)(6)d.
All parking, as listed below: 90-147(g)(7)
Commercial parking 90-147(g)(7)b.
All personal service, except as listed below: 90-147(g)(8)
Animal care (indoor) 90-147(g)(8)b.
Animal care (outdoor) 90-147(g)(8)c.
Beauty, hair, or nail salon 90-147(g)(8)
Massage 90-147(g)(8)d.
Tattoo parlor 90-147(g)(8)
All restaurants 90-147(g)(9)
All retail sales, except as listed below: 90-147(g)(10)
Convenience store with gas pumps 90-147(g)(10)b.
Convenience store without gas pumps 90-147(g)(10)c.
Manufactured building, mobile home, or tiny house sales 90-147(g)(10)d.
Mobile vending 90-147(g)(10)e.
Pawnshop 90-147(g)(10)f.
Title loans, check cashing 90-147(g)(10)g.
All vehicle sales/rental, as listed below: 90-147(g)(11)
Recreational vehicle sales, leasing, or rental
Vehicle rental 90-147(g)(11)b.
Vehicle sales and leasing, new 90-147(g)(11)c.
Vehicle sales and leasing, used 90-147(g)(11)d.
Industrial Uses
All light industrial, except as listed below: 90-147(h)(1)
Automobile or truck storage lot 90-147(h)(1)a.
Contractors storage 90-147(h)(1)b.
Detention center, jail, prison 90-147(h)(1)c.
Microbrewery 90-147(h)(1)e.
Sale or rental of machinery, etc. 90-147(h)(1)
All heavy industrial, except as listed below: 90-147(h)(2)
Concrete or masonry plant 90-147(h)(2)b.
Manufacturing or assembly plant 90-147(h)(2)c.
Tree service, etc. 90-147(h)(2)d.
All self-service storage 90-147(h)(3)
All vehicle service and repair, as listed below: 90-147(h)(4)
Car wash 90-147(h)(4)b.
Vehicle repair, minor 90-147(h)(4)c.
Vehicle repair, major 90-147(h)(4)d.
Vehicle repair, commercial vehicle 90-147(h)(4)e.
All warehouse and distribution 90-147(h)(5)
Accessory Uses
Accessory uses not otherwise listed below, as determined by the Planning Services Director:
Ancillary dwelling L L L L L L L L L L 90-147(i)(1)
Car wash 90-147(i)(2)
Drive-thru facility 90-147(i)(3)
Helicopter landing area 90-147(i)(4)
Home occupation L L L L L L L L L L 90-147(i)(5)
Ice vending machine 90-147(i)(6)
Mobile vending 90-147(i)(7)
Outdoor dining 90-147(i)(8)
Outdoor display 90-147(i)(9)
Outdoor storage, limited 90-147(i)(10)
Outdoor storage, general 90-147(i)(11)
Parking, on-site A A A A A A A A A A 90-147(i)(12)
  (Ord. No. 16-14 , § 1, 6-21-2016; Ord. No. 19-04 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-2-2019; Ord. No. 19-10 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2019; Ord. No. 20-01 , § 1(Exh. A), 2-4-2020)
Sec. 90-51. - Effect of leasing room or ancillary or secondary structure on single-family use.
The leasing, renting or granting permission for occupancy of a bedroom or an efficiency area in the main house or dwelling structure to more than two individuals who are not related to the owner or principal occupants of the dwelling on the lot or tract of land shall not be permitted on a property zoned for a single-family dwelling. A dwelling which meets the definition of a group home, as defined in section 90-147, is exempt from this requirement.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-28.1; Ord. No. 16-30 , § 1, 9-20-2016)
Sec. 90-52. - Ancillary dwelling.
An ancillary dwelling shall be built only on a lot or tract of land containing 20,000 square feet of area or more. No more than one ancillary dwelling shall be constructed on a lot or tract of land containing not more than five acres of area, and no such ancillary dwelling shall contain more than 1,800 square feet of space under roof; provided, however, that the board of commissioners may increase the maximum area of such an ancillary dwelling based upon the size of the lot or tract of land on which it is to be constructed, the size of the main or principal dwelling on the lot or tract of land, the topography of the lot or tract of land, the proximity of the ancillary dwelling to other structures, and any other factors which might affect the aesthetics of placing the ancillary dwelling on the lot or tract of land. The board of commissioners may permit the construction of more than one ancillary dwelling on a tract of land containing in excess of five acres of area, and on such tracts of land may increase the maximum size limitations on the ancillary dwellings as the board of commissioners, in its discretion, shall determine, taking into account the same factors as set forth in the preceding sentence. A manufactured/mobile home, or tiny house is not allowed as an ancillary dwelling.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-28.2; Ord. No. 11-04, § 1, 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 19-11 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2019)
_____
Sec. 90-53. - List of lot and structure requirements.
The following table sets forth requirements for lot size, lot design and certain building requirements in the various residential zoning districts as indicated:
EXPAND
R-A R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-3A R-4 T-R A-R A-R10
(a) Minimum lot area (sq. ft. or acre):
(1) Single-family 2½ ac. 30,000* 20,000 10,000 7,500 7,500 40,000
(2) Two-family 10,000
(3) Multifamily** 2 ac. 4 ac. 4 ac.
Not served by public sewer 2½ ac. 40,000 — — — — 40,000 — — —
(b) Maximum lot coverage by principal building and accessory structures (percentage) 20 30 40 50 50 50 50 50 50 50
(c) Minimum lot frontage (ft.):***
(1) Arterial street 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150 150
(2) Collector street 150 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 120
(3) Local street, land service street or service drive 150 100 90 75 75 75 75 100 100 100
(d) Minimum lot width at front building setback (ft.) 150 100 90 75 75 75 75 100 100 100
(e) Minimum front building setback from street centerline (ft.):
(1) Arterial street 125 115 110 110 105 105 110 125 125 125
(2) Collector street 90 80 80 75 70 70 75 90 90 90
(3) Service drive (from property line) 25 25 20 20 20 20 20 20 40 40
(4) Local street or land service street 75 65 60 55 50 50 55 45 75 75
(f) Minimum rear building setback (ft.) 25 25 20 10 10 10 10 40 40 40
(g) Minimum side building setback (ft.) 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 40 40 40
(h) Maximum building height (ft.) 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 55
(i) Special requirements: A minimum amount of the site reserved for open space and recreational area (percentage) 10**** 10**** 10**** 10 10 10
(j) Special requirement: Setback from any property line for a barn or stable used to house livestock (ft.) 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
     * Public water and sewer service required.
** Minimum lot area is for the project as a whole and not for the individual lots within the project.
*** The planning commission may reduce minimum lot frontage of radial lots by one-third. After review by and upon the recommendation by the county engineer, the planning commission may further reduce the minimum frontage on radial lots to a distance at which the required minimum lot width at the building line is achieved at the minimum front setback line for the district. In no case shall the minimum lot frontage be reduced to less than 40 feet.
**** Where the development is required to provide a buffer as required by section 90-139(a)(7) this acreage can be subtracted from the ten percent calculation for the common space requirement of this table. Where the buffer is included within the private individual lot area and where required buffers exceed the minimum required setbacks, the recorded plat will show the required buffer area and an additional ten feet to the rear or side building setback line. This requirement applies to property rezoned after January 1, 2012 only.
Note: In all zoning districts, common areas and utility service areas may, subject to approval of the planning commission, have a lot area less than provided in this table.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-29; Ord. No. 01-11, § 2, 11-6-2001; Ord. No. 08-01, §§ 1—3, 2-5-2008; Ord. No. 11-05, § 1(Exh. A), 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 12-07, § 1(Exh. A), 5-15-2012)
_____
Sec. 90-54. - Single-family and two-family residences.
Single-family and two-family residences constructed in the T-R, A-R, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2 and P-1 districts shall comply with the requirements of the R-3A district as set forth in section 90-53.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-30)
Sec. 90-55. - RCO Residential cluster overlay district.
(a)
Intent. A residential cluster overlay district "RCO" is intended to preserve open space, protect environmentally sensitive areas, enhance scenic views, and promote better neighborhood and urban design without increasing the underlying allowable density.
(b)
Calculation of open space. The minimum amount of open space preserved outside of any single family residential lot utilizing an RCO district shall be the sum of the differences between the minimum required lot sizes for each lot as provided in section 90-53 for the applicable zoning district of this Code and the allowed lot sizes for each such lot as provided in this section; provided however, that in no event shall the amount of open space be less than one acre.
(c)
Protection of open space/dedication of access. Open space created under a RCO district which is not to be used for roads, parking lots, structures or active recreational activities shall be set aside in permanent conservation, through the use of conservation easements granted to Columbia County, or to a qualified "holder" as the term "holder" is defined in § 44-10-2(2) Official Code of Georgia Annotated. The conservation easement shall provide only for passive recreational activities included but not limited to hiking or non-motorized bicycling, trails, parks or landscaped storm water management facilities. With the exception of paved trails, these conservation easements shall not allow for impervious surfaces including but not limited to parking lots, roads, structures including but not limited to storage sheds or pavilions, active recreational activities including but not limited to ball fields, golf courses, swimming pools or tennis courts. Where practical and in accordance with the greenspace master plan, access easements shall be provided to Columbia County for greenway trail construction and maintenance. Only after a conservation easement has been granted may property be transferred to a third party.
(d)
Applicability. The RCO may be made applicable to properties zoned R-A, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, and to residential uses allowed within S-1.
(e)
Access restriction. All lots in the RCO shall be provided access only from local streets interior to the development.
_____
(f)
Lot, area, and setback guidelines.
Lot, Area, and Setback Guidelines
Residential Cluster Overlay Districts
EXPAND
Zoning
District Minimum
Lot Area
(sq. ft.) Lot Area
(sq. ft.) Maximum
Lot Area
(sq. ft.) Lot Frontage
(width)* Setbacks
Front/Side/Rear
RA 65,600 82,000 246,000 115 60/10/20
R1** 18,000 22,500 67,500 75 50/71/2/20
R1A 12,000 15,000 45,000 70 45/71/2/15
R2 6,000 7,500 22,500 60 40/5/5
R3 4,500 5,625 16,875 55 30/31/2/31/2
S-1 8,000 10,000 30,000 65 40/5/10
   * And minimum lot width at the building line. See section 90-53 for reduction on radial lots.
** With public water and sewer.
_____
The lot area, frontage, and setback guidelines shown in this table shall apply; provided, however, in order to provide flexibility in subdivision design, the lot area may be reduced to the minimum lot area specified in the table, and the frontage width of a lot may be reduced by no more than 20 percent below the lot width specified in this section. The average lot area and lot width of all lots within the development shall meet or exceed the lot area and lot width requirements of this section. The largest lot area shall not exceed maximum lot area specified for the RCO district. A maximum of 25 percent of the lots may be subject to both lot area and lot frontage reductions.
(g)
Procedure for approval. An RCO district may be established by the board of commissioners upon review and approval in accordance with the procedures of section 90-180 of this chapter, with an additional requirement that the following information be submitted with the application for the creation of RCO district.
(1)
A plan showing the maximum number of lots allowed under the underlying residential zoning district.
(2)
A proposed RCO plan detailing:
a.
The total number of lots;
b.
Lot layout with all lot areas and all lot widths;
c.
The calculation of required open space;
d.
The average lot area and the average lot width;
e.
The number and percentage of lots below both the specified lot area and lot width for the RCO district, and;
f.
The proposed setbacks of the development.
(3)
A narrative outlining the concept behind the development and the rationale behind the necessary reductions in lot size and lot width.
(h)
Limitation on RCO residential cluster overlay district. No property in the unincorporated areas of Columbia County will be zoned for an RCO residential cluster overlay district after the effective date of this section and no application to rezone property to an RCO residential cluster overlay district will be accepted after the effective date of this ordinance [from which this subsection derives]. All parcels of land zoned as RCO residential cluster overlay district as the effective date of this ordinance shall continue with that zoning designation until such property is rezoned in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-31; Ord. No. 01-10, § 1, 10-2-2001; Ord. No. 06-01, § 1, 3-7-2006; Ord. No. 15-16, § 1, 6-16-2015)
Sec. 90-56. - Planned residential development district.
(a)
Purpose. The purpose of the planned residential development (PRD) zoning designation is to:
1.
Allow one or more properties to be planned as a unit with development standards tailored to the site;
2.
Provide maximum flexibility and diversification of lot sizes and architectural styles in the development of the property;
3.
Maintain consistency with the county's comprehensive plan and all subsequent amendments and updates;
4.
Protect the integrity and character of residential uses in the county;
5.
Encourage efficient use of land for preservation of sensitive environmental and cultural resources such as open space areas, waterways, wetlands, and topographic features;
6.
Provide for effective development of public facilities and services for the site;
7.
Encourage use of design features to achieve development that is compatible with the area; and
8.
Allow for creative and imaginative design that will promote amenities beyond those expected in conventional developments.
(b)
Intent. The intent of the planned residential development (PRD) classification is to create a more desirable use of the land, a more coherent and coordinated development, and a better physical environment that would otherwise be possible under a single zoning district or combination of zoning districts.
(c)
Applicability. The provisions of this section are applicable to property upon designation of the site as a planned residential development by the board of commissioners pursuant section 90-180.
1.
A planned residential development (PRD) is established by rezoning the property and adopting a development plan. The development plan establishes regulations for the use, development, improvement and maintenance of the property, and must be adopted in accordance with section 90-180.
2.
The development plan establishes the permitted, conditionally permitted and accessory uses; site plan, including the site area; street layout, including typical street sections; pedestrian facilities; open space areas; number of residential units by type; square footage of residential units; preliminary landscaping plan, development regulations; architectural standards; phasing plan, if applicable; statement regarding consistency with the comprehensive plan and all other applicable plans; traffic study; other information necessary for the substantive and environmental review of the proposed project; and any other information deemed necessary by the planning services director.
(d)
Permitted uses. A listing of permitted uses within a particular PRD district shall be adopted as part of the regulations applying to that district only. The uses permitted shall be:
1.
Single-family dwelling;
2.
Two-family dwelling;
3.
Townhouse;
4.
Multi-family;
5.
Customary accessory structures;
6.
Ancillary dwellings;
7.
Golf, country club, clubhouse, pool and recreation courts, active recreation amenities.
(e)
District regulations. The following regulations apply to designated uses and development in PRD districts, other provisions in this article to the contrary notwithstanding:
1.
The development plan shall specify a phasing plan for all amenities to be provided within the development. The amenity phasing plan shall correspond with the overall development phasing schedule, and shall provide for the reasonable completion of amenities to maximize enjoyment by residents.
2.
The following site development characteristics shall be determined and set in the approved plans for PRDs:
(i)
Minimum lot area(s);
(ii)
Minimum lot width(s);
(iii)
Size(s) and location(s) of yard(s) and setback(s);
(iv)
Maximum impervious surface ratio for individual lots and the development as a whole;
(v)
Minimum and/or maximum building density, including total number of residential units permitted, broken down by type;
(vi)
Maximum structure height(s);
(vii)
Open space shall be provided with all PRDs, and minimum open space shall be set by the development plan. For PRDs incorporating multi-family residential dwellings, a portion of the open space, complementary to the proposed design and lifestyle features of the proposed development, shall be reserved as common open space that shall be designated for the recreational or leisurely use by residents.
(viii)
Off-street and on-street parking and loading needs and dimensions;
(ix)
Internal traffic calming strategies;
(x)
Location, size, and/or amount of bufferyard(s), screening, landscaping, and tree save areas;
(xi)
Layout of lots, streets, and any other infrastructure, including bicycle and pedestrian facilities, serving the PRD;
(xii)
Street tree planting plan, which shall detail species, placement, size, number of trees, and the party responsible for perpetual maintenance;
(xiii)
Development-specific architectural design criteria;
(xiv)
Location, size, and design of any permanent signage;
(xv)
Location of and specifications for site access and internal traffic circulation; and
(xvi)
Any other site-specific prescription(s) deemed necessary for the development of the site, as proposed.
3.
Projects shall meet the following design requirements:
(i)
The minimum side building setback shall be ten feet for all single-family detached units, and on the detached side of all single-family attached units. This minimum notwithstanding, the character of a proposed (or "the proposed" or "a particular") planned residential development may justify smaller side setbacks. Certain development types, including, but not limited to traditional neighborhood development (TND), pocket neighborhoods, and some residential infill solutions may benefit from the use of smaller setbacks to achieve the development concept. The board of commissioners may, where justified by the development concept, approve minimum side building setbacks below ten feet.
(ii)
The minimum rear building setback will be ten feet.
(iii)
Driveways shall be a minimum of 20 feet long between the garage and sidewalk or back of curb (where sidewalks are not present).
(iv)
Streets shall be designed as a hierarchy of street types in an interconnected pattern.
a.
Interconnecting sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet shall be installed on both sides of all streets, and shall meet Public Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) requirements, latest edition, at all street intersections. A walking trail with a minimum width of eight feet may be installed in lieu of sidewalks along one side of major neighborhood streets where the installation of sidewalks is unnecessary or impractical, as determined by the director of planning services.
b.
Sidewalk or walking trail locations shall be shown on street types.
c.
Major neighborhood streets shall converge on neighborhood centers, parks, landmarks, schools, etc.
d.
Streets and alleys shall terminate at other streets within the neighborhood, and shall be "stubbed out" at the edge of the project site to provide linkages with future development. Connections shall be made to "stub outs" on adjacent parcels. The use of dead-end streets and culs-de-sac should be minimized and must be approved by planning commission in cases where site topography necessitates their use.
(v)
Street trees shall be planted on both sides of all streets (except alleys).
a.
Street trees shall be planted within a tree lawn with a minimum width of six feet, either between the back of the curb and the sidewalk, or between the sidewalk and the building.
b.
A street tree planting plan shall be included with the development plan, and shall detail species, placement, size, number of trees, and the party responsible for perpetual maintenance.
c.
Required street trees shall be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the building to which the street trees closest relate.
d.
Existing tree canopy may substitute for the installation of street trees, where practical, and may be approved by the director of planning services.
(vi)
Roadway design and stormwater standards shall adhere to environmentally sensitive and aesthetically pleasing best management practices and development standards.
(vii)
A minimum of ten percent of the usable project area shall be permanently allocated to open space.
a.
A portion of the required open space shall be centrally located within the development. Location and approximate size of the open space area shall be designated and approved by the planning commission as part of conceptual approval.
b.
For developments under ten acres, the open space requirement may be satisfied by an existing or proposed public park or trail network that is within 1,300 feet of the development boundary.
c.
Stormwater infrastructure may not be counted toward the required open space, unless designed as part of a low-impact system that utilizes bio-swales and natural recharge areas.
d.
Utility easements may not be counted toward the required open space, unless utilized as part of a common trail network or other amenity.
(viii)
Specific architectural design criteria shall be adopted as part of the overall plan for the site.
(ix)
Maximum impervious cover for residential lots shall be specified in the development plan, with stormwater infrastructure designed accordingly.
(x)
Vegetated bufferyards of a minimum width of 20 feet shall be maintained along all exterior road frontages of a PRD.
(xi)
Vegetated bufferyards of a minimum width of 15 feet shall be maintained along a development's exterior boundaries.
a.
Bufferyards shall be left undisturbed throughout development.
b.
Bufferyards may count as part of the required open space only if located outside of a building lot.
4.
Additional criteria for multi-family and single-family attached development:
(i)
Density counts relate to buildable site area.
(ii)
Fifty percent of single-family attached units must have access to an attached or detached garage. If detached, the garage must be located to the rear of the primary structure.
5.
The site development characteristics prescribed by the approved development plan associated with a PRD shall supplant any conflicting standards for site development established in the Columbia County Code of Ordinances. Any site development characteristics not prescribed in the approved plans for a PRD shall be subject to the minimum standards, if applicable, established in the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
(f)
PRD revisions.
1.
Minor changes. Changes proposed in writing by the applicant that do not alter district boundaries and that involve revision of minor characteristics of a PRD, such as relocation of driveways, façade details, drainage structures, number of required parking spaces, and other features that do not materially affect the approved plan concept or violate any other applicable regulations, may be approved by the planning commission. Variations to residential density less than five percent of the initially-approved density constitute minor changes.
2.
Major changes. Changes proposed in writing by the applicant that alter district boundaries or that materially affect the characteristics or functionality of the PRD, such as changes in the general layout of buildings and their environs on the site, changes to the district regulations, or landscaping shall be submitted under the provisions of section 90-180 pertaining to zoning changes and ordinance amendments, and must be approved by the board of commissioners. Variations to residential density that are five percent or greater of the initially-approved density constitute major changes.
(Ord. No. 15-19, § 1(Exh. A), 6-16-2015
Secs. 90-57—90-85. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, PROFESSIONAL, SPECIAL, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS[2]

Footnotes:
--- (2) ---
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.

Sec. 90-86. - C-1 neighborhood commercial district.
(a)
Established. The C-1 neighborhood commercial district is established to provide decentralized areas for the retail sales of goods, and for personal services which provide the everyday necessities and conveniences of local residents. The C-1 district is for commercial use of land and structures which blend smoothly into the character of adjoining residential areas, and to exclude activities which generate perceptible light or noise, or attract traffic from outside the immediate neighborhood. The land uses permitted in the C-1 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(b)
Special requirements. In the C-1 district:
(1)
The front setback for canopies and gasoline pumps may be reduced to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way line, at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Outdoor storage is not allowed.
(3)
Driveway connections shall be provided between adjacent commercial properties, where practical.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-40)
Sec. 90-87. - C-C community commercial district.
(a)
Established. The C-C community commercial district is established to provide for individual retail or service commercial establishments and planned commercial shopping or service centers. The C-C district is for those commercial uses which cater to community and regional shoppers as well as the traveling public and require access to major thoroughfares. The C-C district is suited for commercial growth corridors and community commercial centers as identified in the growth management plan. The land uses permitted in the C-C district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(b)
Special requirements. In the C-C district:
(1)
The front setback for canopies and gasoline pumps may be reduced to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(2)
Driveway connections shall be provided between adjacent commercial properties, where practical.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-41)
Sec. 90-88. - C-2 general commercial district.
(a)
Established. The C-2 general commercial district is established to provide for both highway commercial and planned commercial shopping or service centers. The C-2 district is for those commercial uses which cater to community and regional shoppers as well as the traveling public, occupy relatively large sites and require access to major thoroughfares. The C-2 district is suited for major commercial centers as identified in the growth management plan. The land uses permitted in the C-2 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(b)
Special requirements. In the C-2 district:
(1)
The front setback for canopies and gasoline pumps may be reduced to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way line.
(2)
Driveway connections shall be provided between adjacent commercial properties, where practical.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-42)
Sec. 90-89. - C-3 heavy commercial district.
(a)
Established. The C-3 heavy commercial district is established to provide areas for distribution, sales, service or storage activities involving goods or equipment requiring extensive indoor or outdoor spaces, large or specialized handling equipment or significant truck or rail transportation. Such uses generate limited emissions and noise which make them incompatible with other commercial or residential uses. The land uses permitted in the C-3 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(b)
Special requirements. In the C-3 district:
(1)
The front setback for canopies and gasoline pumps may be reduced to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way line at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(2)
Driveway connections shall be provided between adjacent commercial properties, where practical.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-43)
Sec. 90-90. - M-1 light industrial district.
The M-1 light industrial district is established to provide areas for industry in locations which are served by major transportation facilities and adequate utilities, but are not feasible nor highly desirable for conventional industrial development because of their proximity to residential, recreational, commercial or related developments. The M-1 district is to permit development, compatible with uses of residential property adjoining or surrounding the district, with suitable open spaces, landscaping and parking areas. The land uses permitted in the M-1 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-44)
Sec. 90-91. - M-2 general industrial district.
The M-2 general industrial district is established to provide areas for manufacturing, assembling, fabricating, warehousing and related activities. Such uses generate some emissions and have some adverse effects on surrounding properties, and are not compatible with primary commercial, institutional and residential uses. The land uses permitted in the M-2 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-45)
Sec. 90-92. - P-1 professional district.
The P-1 professional district is established to provide for the development of structures for professional services which do not generate large volumes of traffic, noise or other harmful effects on adjoining residential areas. A P-1 district may serve as a transition between more intensely developed commercial districts (C-1, C-C and C-2) and residential districts. The land uses permitted in the P-1 district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-46)
Sec. 90-93. - S-1 special district.
The S-1 special district is established to provide for the proper placement of private, semiprivate and public uses which require special consideration because of their character, physical setting, size and/or relation to surrounding land uses. The land uses permitted in the S-1 special district shall be as set forth in section 90-97. Additional requirements for the S-1 special district are set forth in section 90-182.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-47; Ord. No. 09-02, § 1, 6-2-2009)
Sec. 90-94. - PUD planned unit development district.
The PUD planned unit development district intended to encourage innovative land planning and site design concepts that conform to community quality-of-life benchmarks and that achieve a high level of aesthetics, high-quality development, environmental sensitivity, energy efficiency, and other community goals by:
(1)
Reducing or eliminating the inflexibility that sometimes results from strict application of zoning and development standards that were designed primarily for individual lots;
(2)
Allowing greater freedom in providing a mix of land uses in the same development, including commercial, professional and residential with a mix of housing types, lot sizes, and densities;
(3)
Allowing greater freedom in selecting the means to provide access, light, open space, and the provision of active recreational activities, for example ball fields, golf courses, swimming pools or tennis courts.
(4)
Linking areas within the development by providing pedestrian-ways, bike-ways, and transportation systems and connecting to public sidewalks and bike paths as feasible;
(5)
Promoting quality urban and traditional neighborhood design and environmentally sensitive development by allowing development to take advantage of special site characteristics, locations, and land uses.
The planned unit development district may be permitted only in areas where public water and sewer are available. Proposals must be compatible with the character of surrounding land uses. It is recognized that some concepts will be more appropriate than others and the approval of an application in one location does not necessarily indicate the development will be suitable in other locations. Lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98. Additional requirements for the planned unit development district are contained in section 90-182.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-48; Ord. No. 11-06, § 1(Exh. A), 3-1-2011)
Sec. 90-95. - PDD planned development district.
(a)
Established. The PDD planned development district is established to provide an orderly transition for inadequately buffered single-family residential development fronting an arterial street to a low-intensity commercial and office development. Suitable areas for a PDD district are those with a significant number of residential dwellings with shallow front yards, fronting an arterial street having a significant amount of existing commercial property fronting on such street. Consideration shall be given to the compatibility of new development with existing single-family homes by way of parking requirements, hours of operation, signage, lighting, exterior treatments and roof pitch. The land uses permitted in the PDD district shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98. Additional requirements for the PDD district are contained in section 90-182.
(b)
Special requirements. PDD districts shall be subject to the following requirements in addition to others contained in this chapter:
(1)
Parking areas shall be located to the rear of the principal building.
(2)
No lighted sign shall be directly visible from any residential zoning district.
(3)
Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
(4)
External security lighting on the property shall not be illuminated later than 11:00 p.m. or motion-sensitive lighting shall be installed.
(5)
All principal buildings shall conform to the requirements of section 90-131(a)(7).
(Code 1979, § 2-16-49)
Sec. 90-96. - Evans Town Center overlay district.
(a)
The Evans Town Center overlay district (the ETCO or ETCOD) is established to provide for and encourage the creation of a town center with a unique identity, to promote linkages between public, medical, retail and service uses in order to increase pedestrian activity, to provide opportunities for diversifying land uses and to improve vehicular access to the district. Urban design features such as lighting, coordinated signage, street furniture and landscaping should be used to provide visual cues that tie the district together. The architectural compatibility and aesthetic harmony of structures located within the ETCOD are important in protecting and promoting its appearance and character. The intent of the design review process is to assure respect for the character, integrity and quality of the built environment of the ETCOD; it is not intended to stifle compatible innovative architecture or beneficial economic development.
(b)
Property located in the ETCOD shall be subject to the requirements, restrictions and limitations for the zoning district in which each property is located (i.e. C-1, C-C, C-2, C-3, etc.) subject to modifications made thereto by the requirements, restrictions and limitations set forth in this section for the ETCOD. Such property shall also be subject to the requirements, restrictions and limitations as herein set out which apply to the ETCOD. The land uses permitted in ETCOD shall be as set forth in section 90-97, and lot and structure requirements shall be as set forth in section 90-98 of this chapter.
(c)
Proposed development shall be located and configured in a visually harmonious manner with the terrain and vegetation of the land on which the improvements are being developed and structures shall not dominate, in an incompatible manner, an adjacent building or surrounding general development that is in compliance with this chapter.
The developer/architect is encouraged to attend a pre-development conference to demonstrate the overall architectural concept of the project. They should be able to illustrate their design intentions with renderings, photographs or other visual means. The developer/architect is required to submit a preliminary design site plan, building plan, elevations and a rendering to identify the architectural style, colors and building materials to be used. These shall be submitted for architectural review to the development services division at the design stage of the project, before any construction drawings are commenced. The developer/architect is required to submit samples of all materials and colors used for county approval at the time the full architectural plans are submitted.
The architectural design, color and material of a proposed structure shall conform to community standards of good taste and design as expressed by this chapter. Proposed structures of inferior architectural design and/or material composition and long monotonous facade design, including those characterized by unrelieved repetition of shape or form, or by unbroken extension of line shall not be permitted. All elevations of a structure shall be in harmony with one another in terms of scale, proportion, detail, material, color and design quality. The side and rear elevations of buildings shall be as visually attractive as the front elevation, especially where those side or rear elevations are often viewed by the public. Roof lines and architectural detailing shall present a consistency in quality design. Structures within a proposed development and all canopies shall utilize a uniform architectural theme. It is not inferred that the buildings must look alike to achieve harmony. Harmony of style can be created through proper consideration of scale, proportion, detail, material, color, site planning and landscaping design. The architectural design and material finish of buildings, signs, canopies and other necessary structures shall be compatible with one another and adjacent and surrounding structures that are substantially in compliance with this chapter. Properties located in the ETCOD shall be subject to the following requirements in addition to those contained in other parts of this chapter:
(1)
Building exterior elevations shall consist of materials that are generally equal in quality, appearance and detail to all other exterior elevations of the same structure or those structures within the same planned development.
External building walls shall be architecturally designed and faced with bricks, stucco, structural masonry, stone or stone veneer, fiber cement board cladding, split face block, wood siding or wood shingles. Architectural metal panels and architectural glazing systems may be used as an accent and up to a maximum 25 percent of any elevation. Reflective or shiny surfaces and mirrored glass are prohibited.
In the T-R townhouse residential, A-R apartment residential, PUD planned unit development and PDD planned development district zoning districts, herein referred to as the multi-family residential zoning districts, vinyl siding may be used, up to 50 percent of the exterior wall surface of any building excluding the front elevation.
The M-1 light industrial and M-2 general industrial zoning districts, herein referred to as the industrial zoning districts, are exempt from the design criteria, except for elevations facing the main access roads, (Evans to Locks Road, North Belair Road, Old Evans Road.) All openings in the external walls shall be square or rectangular provided that arched or circle toped openings will be permitted. Except in the industrial zoning districts, a pedestrian arcade with a minimum depth of six feet is encouraged for all openings off of public streets or public open spaces. In commercial zoning districts C-1 neighborhood commercial, C-C community commercial, C-2 general commercial and C-3 heavy commercial zoning districts, herein referred to as the commercial zoning districts, in the P-1 professional zoning district, and in PUD planned unit development and PDD planned development district zoning districts, side and rear set back lines along the common boundary lines with property in said commercial zoning district or professional zoning district may be reduced, but not to a distance of less than three feet in the discretion of the Director of the Development Services Division of Columbia County. External building walls fronting on North Belair Road or public open space which fronts on North Belair Road shall be constructed on the set back lines which are established by this chapter which for purposes of this section shall also be build-to-lines provided that the Columbia County Planning Commission may in its discretion increase or decrease the distance between the build-to-line/set back line and the road right-of-way line or public open space boundary line. The Columbia County Planning Commission may, under subsection (c)(16) of this section, grant a variance from the preceding sentence if it finds from the evidence presented to it that features such as the topography of the land or other physical characteristics of the lot will increase the cost of construction of the project by more than ten percent and that such variance will not materially damage the appearance and character of the immediate area as it has been developed to the time such a variance is granted.
(2)
Roofs if sloped shall be covered with shingles, tiles, standing seam metal, or other roofing material with similar appropriate texture and appearance. Flat roofs are not discouraged where they are appropriate to the design of the structure and shall be built-up on membrane. No flat roofs shall be permitted in the T-R townhouse residential and A-R apartment residential zoning districts. Sloped roofs shall be symmetrical hipped and gabled. Shed roofs may be placed against an external wall of a principal building only and must be sloped.
(3)
Gutters for stormwater drainage which are metal and exposed and which include the gutters, downspouts and leaderheads are permitted. All exposed gutters, downspouts and leaderheads facing public streets and public open space shall be designed as an architectural element in the wall and roof design. Downspouts may connect directly to a storm drainage system or discharge on grade.
(4)
Windows shall be clear glass with not more than a 30 percent reduction in light transmission permitted. The window frames must be metal, wood or vinyl and must be painted or vinyl clad. Except in commercial buildings with an enclosed heated area of 70,000 square feet or more, individual window openings shall be no larger than four feet horizontally and eight feet vertically. Circular, semi-circular and octagonal windows are permitted. Whether the windows shall be fixed glass or operational windows shall be coordinated with the uses of the interior and exterior spaces in the vicinity of each window. In commercial buildings with an enclosed heated area of 70,000 square feet or more, and all industrial buildings, the size of the window openings shall be appropriate for and consistent with the scale of the building.
(5)
Doors may be solid or hollow core metal, aluminum, fiberglass or wood and may be either solid or have glass or louvers. Glass in any door shall be clear or leaded glass with not more than a 30 percent reduction in the light transmission permitted. Door frames may be metal or wood and must be painted or stained. Door openings shall be no larger than six feet horizontally and ten feet vertically. Solid doors shall have raised panels and/or louvers. Door operation shall be coordinated with the uses of the interior and exterior spaces in the vicinity of each door. Overhead doors for loading docks, delivery and distribution shall be permitted only on the rear of the building, except that in commercial buildings with an enclosed heated area of 70,000 square feet or more, and all industrial buildings, such overhead doors shall also be permitted on the side of the building. The size of door openings shall be appropriate for and consistent with the scale of the building.
(6)
Balconies and porches shall be encouraged if they are constructed to blend with the architecture of the building. Balconies and porches at floor elevations above ground level shall be designed to create a pedestrian arcade at the ground level along public streets and public open space.
(7)
Fences and landscaping walls may be used. Fences shall be constructed of materials coordinating with external building walls, wrought iron, vinyl or painted aluminum. Wood fences may be allowed upon the approval of the planning services director, provided that the proposed fence design is compatible with adjacent or nearby properties, provides a finished appearance on both sides of the fence, and meets the intent of this section. Where visible from a roadway or adjacent property, fence lines must be landscaped with a mix of evergreen trees and shrubs. Landscaping walls shall be constructed of materials matching external building walls, wrought iron, painted aluminum, or concrete landscape block that compliments the material used for exterior building walls. Landscaping wall surfaces shall have a minimum overall opacity of 85 percent. In the M-1 and M-2 zoning districts green or black coated or painted chain link fencing may be used provided that a solid hedge which is allowed to grow to and is maintained at the same height of such fence is planted in front of the fence along the section of fence that is visible from the road.
(8)
Outbuildings and accessory structures may be constructed only of materials which match the external building walls of the principal structure. The layout and massing of outbuildings and accessory structures shall be designed to coordinate with the primary structure.
(9)
Color combination or stains shall be complimentary, with generally no more than three colors per building being permitted. The exterior of any structure in the ETCOD including buildings and the doors, windows and trim thereof, fences, landscaping walls and any other type of structure may be any color provided that all color combinations are complimentary and do not exceed three colors unless expressly approved in writing by the Columbia County Planning Commission; provided, however, that no colors shall be used which are listed in a master list of excluded colors which shall be prepared by the Columbia County Planning and Development Services Division and approval by the board of commissioners. The master list of excluded colors may have colors added to it or deleted from it from time to time as the Columbia County Planning and Development Services Division with the approval of the board of commissioners shall determine.
(10)
Heating and/or air-conditioning mechanical equipment, whether ground level, raised or roof-top must be screened from view. In addition, garbage receptacles, fuel tanks, electric and gas meters and other unsightly objects must be screened from view. Screened from view shall mean concealed from view from any abutting road or adjacent tract of land by a structure constructed of the same materials as the exterior elevation of the principle structure, and if on or attached to the principal structure front designed to be perceived as an integral part of the building.
(11)
Structures shall be oriented, or screened in accordance with sections 90-139 and 90-140 of the Code of Ordinances of Columbia County so that loading, delivery and distribution areas are in no manner visible from residential zoning districts or existing or planned public road rights-of-way. Loading areas may be oriented toward adjoining properties that are similarly zoned, if and only if they are screened from view with fencing and landscaping in accordance with sections 90-139 and 90-140 of the Code of Ordinances of Columbia County. In areas where significant elevation differences exist such that residential zoning districts or existing or planned public road rights-of-way look down on the structures in question and screening fences or other screening devices of eight feet in height would not hide such loading, delivery and distribution areas, this shall constitute a basis on which the Columbia County Planning Commission may grant a variance under subsection (16) hereof to the requirements of the preceding two sentences. Loading docks and doors shall be situated so as to accommodate all trucks and trailers without requiring them to maneuver in (other than turning into the access drive) or protrude into a street during loading or unloading. Exceptions can be made in cases of extreme elevation differences at staff's discretion during plan review.
(12)
Structures of symbolic design for reasons of advertising shall only be permitted when they meet the provisions of this chapter.
(13)
Reserved.
(14)
Reserved.
(15)
Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the ETCOD which are existing on November 18, 2002 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the ETCOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter.
(16)
In order not to stifle compatible innovative architecture or beneficial economic development, the Columbia County Planning Commission may review site plans, building plans and landscape/tree protection plans for any project in the ETCOD which do not meet the standards and requirements of this section, and may approve variations from those standards and requirements if the planning commission finds that the variations permitted will not materially alter the unique identity and character of the ETCOD, materially interfere with the architectural compatibility and aesthetic harmony of structures located within the ETCOD or otherwise materially adversely affect the appearance or environment of the ETCOD. Prior to approving such a variation the Columbia County Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing advertised in the same manner as a public hearing for a variance application under section 90-179(c) of this chapter. Any person who appears at such public hearing and supports a position contrary to the actions taken by the planning commission may appeal the action of the planning commission to the board of commissioners of Columbia County by filing a written notice of such appeal with the clerk of the board of commissioners and the Director of the Columbia County Planning and Development Services Division. The notice of appeal must be so filed within seven days of the date of the meeting at which the planning commission voted to take the action being appealed from. The board of commissioners shall hear such appeal at a regular or special meeting within 30 days of the date the notice of appeal is filed. The action of the board of commissioners shall be final.
(d)
The initial boundaries of the ETCOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on an Evans Town Center Overlay District Official Zoning Map prepared by the Planning and Development Services Division of Columbia County dated October 17, 2002, which is incorporated herein by reference. The then current Evans Town Center Overlay District Official Zoning Map as updated from time to time to show changes in the boundaries of the ETCOD shall be maintained as an official zoning map in accordance with the provisions of section 90-5 of this chapter. Single-family residential properties in the R-A residential-agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential, R-3A single and two family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the single-family residential zoning districts) are not included in the ETCOD. Any land which is in one of the single-family residential zoning districts and located in the circle with a 1¼ mile radius measured from the center of the intersection of Washington Road with North Belair Road on its southwest side and Industrial Park Drive on its northeast side as shown on the Evans Town Center Overlay District Official Zoning Map if it is rezoned so that it is no longer in one of the single-family residential zoning districts shall automatically be included in the ETCOD.
(Ord. No. 02-15, § 2, 11-18-2002; Ord. No. 02-16, § 2, 2-18-2003; Ord. No. 10-02, § 1(Exh. A), 7-6-2010; Ord. No. 15-31 , § 1, 1-19-2016)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 02-15, § 2, adopted Nov. 18, 2002, repealed the former § 90-96 in its entirety and enacted a new § 90-96. The former § 90-96 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 00-4, § 2, adopted June 20, 2000.
_____
Sec. 90-97. - Allowed uses.
(a)
Use table.
(1)
Allowed use (A). Indicates a use is allowed in the respective district. The use is also subject to all other applicable requirements of the code.
(2)
Limited use (L). Indicates a use is allowed in the respective district, subject to a use standard found in the right-hand column of the use table. The use is also subject to all other applicable requirements of the code.
(3)
Conditional use (C). Indicates a use may be allowed in the respective district only where approved by the board of commissioners in accordance with section 90-180.
(4)
Use not allowed. A blank cell indicates that a use is not allowed in the respective district.
EXPAND
Use Category Commercial and Industrial Definition/
Standards
Specific Use C-1 C-C C-2 C-3 P-1 PDD M-1 M-2 S-1
Agricultural Uses
All agriculture, except as listed below: C 90-147(d)
Barn, pole barn, storage structure 90-147(d)(3)
Small-scale agriculture C 90-147(d)(4)
Timber harvesting 90-147(d)(5)
Residential Uses
All household living, as listed below: 90-147(e)
Single-family detached C C C C C C C C C 90-147(e)(1)b.
Two-family C 90-147(e)(1)c.
Townhouse C 90-147(e)(1)d.
Multi-family C C C C 90-147(e)(1)e.
Manufactured home, single-wide C 90-147(d)(1)f.
Manufactured home, double-wide C 90-147(e)(1)f.
Manufactured home park C 90-147(e)(1)g.
Tiny house C 90-147(e)(1)h.
Tiny house community C 90-147(e)(1)i
All group living, as listed below: 90-147(2)
Continuing care retirement community C 90-147(e)(2)b.
Group home 90-147(e)(2)c.
Hospice C A A C C C 90-147(e)(2)d.
Institutional residential (up to 18 residents) A A A A A C 90-147(e)(2)e.
Institutional residential (more than 18 residents) C A A C C C 90-147(e)(2)e.
Monastery, convent C 90-147(e)(2)f.
All social service and educational C C 90-147(e)(3)
Public/Institutional Uses
All civic, as listed below: 90-147(f)(1)
College, university C A A A C C C C C 90-147(f)(1)b.
Club or lodge, nonprofit A A A A A A C C C 90-147(f)(1)c.
Museum, library A A A A A A C 90-147(f)(1)d.
Nonprofit service organization A A A A A A C C C 90-147(f)(1)e.
Place of worship C C C C C C C C C 90-147(f)(1)f.
Public use A A A A A A A A C 90-147(f)(1)g.
School, private (K—12) C A A A C C C C C 90-147(f)(1)h.
School, special C A A A C C C C C 90-147(f)(1)i.
All parks and open space, as listed below: 90-147(f)(2)
Cemetery C 90-147(f)(2)b.
Community recreation L L L C 90-147(f)(2)c.
Conservation area A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)d.
Golf course C 90-147(f)(2)e.
Reservoir, water supply, water well A A A A A A A A A 90-147(f)(2)g.
All major utilities, except as listed below: C C C 90-147(f)(3)
Telecommunication tower C 90-147(f)(3)b.
All minor utilities L L L L L L L L C 90-147(f)(4)
Commercial Uses
All day care, as listed below: 90-147(g)(1)
Adult care center (fewer than 7 aging adults) A A A A A C 90-147(g)(1)b.
Adult care center (7 or more aging adults) A A A C 90-147(g)(1)b.
Day care center (fewer than 7 children) L A A L L C 90-147(g)(1)c.
Day care center (7 or more children) L A A C C C 90-147(g)(1)c.
All indoor recreation, except as listed below: A A A C C 90-147(g)(2)
Adult business C 90-147(g)(2)b.
Gym, health spa, yoga studio L A A A L L C C C 90-147(g)(2)c.
School of the arts A A A A A A C C C 90-147(g)(2)d.
Firearm training and sports facility C C C C C 90-147(g)(2)e.
Special event facility C A A C C C C C C 90-147(g)(2)f.
All medical, except as listed below: A A A A A C 90-147(g)(3)
Social service, medical C 90-147(g)(3)b.
All office, except as listed below: A A A A A A A A C 90-147(g)(4)
Bail bonds A A C C C 90-147(g)(4)c.
Call center C A A A C C C C C 90-147(g)(4)d.
Radio, TV station, recording studio C A A A C C C C C 90-147(g)(4)e.
Trade, vocational, business school C A A A C C A A C 90-147(g)(4)f.
All outdoor recreation, except as listed below: A A A C C C 90-147(g)(5)
Camp or campground C 90-147(g)(5)
Commercial marina C 90-147(g)(5)b.
Firearm training and sports facility C 90-147(g)(5)c.
Riding stable C 90-147(g)(5)d.
All overnight lodging, as listed below: 90-147(g)(6)
Bed and breakfast (up to 6 rooms) C C 90-147(g)(6)b.
Boutique hotel (7 to 30 rooms) C A A C 90-147(g)(6)c.
Hotel/motel (more than 30 rooms) A A C 90-147(g)(6)d.
All parking, as listed below: 90-147(g)(7)
Commercial parking L L L L L L L L C 90-147(g)(7)b.
All personal service, except as listed below: A A A A A A C C C 90-147(g)(8)
Animal care (indoor) A A A A A A C C C 90-147(g)(8)b.
Animal care (outdoor) C L L C C C 90-147(g)(8)c.
Beauty, hair, or nail salon A A A A A A C 90-147(g)(8)
Tattoo parlor C C C C C C 90-147(g)(8)d.
Therapeutic massage C C C C C C 90-147(g)(8)d.
All restaurants L A A C 90-147(g)(9)
All retail sales, except as listed below: A A A A C 90-147(g)(10)
Convenience store with gas pumps C L L L C C C 90-147(g)(10)b.
Convenience store without gas pumps L A A A C 90-147(g)(10)c.
Manufactured building, mobile home, or tiny house sales L L L C 90-147(g)(10)d.
Mobile vending L L L L L L C 90-147(g)(10)e.
Pawnshop L L L L 90-147(g)(10)f.
Retail package sales of distilled spirits for off-premise consumption C C 90-147(g)(10)g.
Title loans, check cashing L L L L 90-147(g)(10)h.
All vehicle sales / rental, as listed below: 90-147(g)(11)
Recreational vehicle sales, leasing, or rental L L L C 90-147(g)(11)b.
Vehicle rental L L L L L C 90-147(g)(11)c.
Vehicle sales and leasing, new L L L L C 90-147(g)(11)d.
Vehicle sales and leasing, used L L L L C 90-147(g)(11)e.
Industrial Uses
All light industrial, except as listed below: C A A C 90-147(g)(1)
Automobile or truck storage lot C A A 90-147(g)(1)a.
Contractors office with storage L L L 90-147(g)(1)b.
Detention center, jail, prison C 90-147(g)(1)c.
Microbrewery C C A A C 90-147(g)(1)e.
Sale or rental of machinery, etc. C C A A 90-147(g)(1)
All heavy industrial, except as listed below: A C 90-147(g)(2)
Concrete or masonry plant L A C 90-147(g)(2)b.
Manufacturing or assembly plant L A C 90-147(g)(2)c.
Tree service, etc. L C 90-147(g)(2)d.
All self-service storage L L L C 90-147(g)(3)
All vehicle service and repair, as listed below: 90-147(g)(4)
Car wash L L C C C 90-147(g)(4)b.
Vehicle repair, minor L L C C C 90-147(g)(4)c.
Vehicle repair, major L L L L C 90-147(g)(4)d.
Vehicle repair, commercial vehicle L L L C 90-147(g)(4)e.
All warehouse and distribution L L C 90-147(g)(5)
Accessory Uses
Accessory uses not otherwise listed below, as determined by the Planning Services Director: A A A A A A A A A 90-147(i)
Ancillary dwelling C 90-147(i)(1)
Car wash L L L L L 90-147(i)(2)
Drive-thru facility L L 90-147(i)(3)
Helicopter landing area A A A A C 90-147(i)(4)
Home occupation L 90-147(i)(5)
Ice vending machine A A A A A C 90-147(i)(6)
Mobile vending L L L L L L L 90-147(i)(7)
Outdoor dining L L L C 90-147(i)(8)
Outdoor display L L L L C 90-147(i)(9)
Outdoor storage, limited L L L L L C 90-147(i)(10)
Outdoor storage, general L L L C 90-147(i)(11)
Parking, on-site A A A A A A A A A 90-147(i)(12)
  (Ord. No. 16-13 . § 1(Exh. A), 6-21-2016; Ord. No. 16-26 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-20-2016; Ord. No. 17-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 11-7-2017; Ord. No. 19-12 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2019; Ord. No. 22-03 , § 1(Exh. A), 5-17-2022)
Sec. 90-98. - List of lot and structure requirements.
The following table sets forth requirements for lot size, lot design and certain building requirements for the various zoning district as indicated:
EXPAND
C-1 C-C C-2 C-3 M-1 M-2 P-1 PUD* PDD*
(a) Minimum lot area (sq. ft. or acre) 15,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 2 ac. 7,500 5 ac. 30,000
(b) Maximum lot coverage by principal building and accessory structure (percentage) 50 50 50 50 50 50 50 — 50
(c) Minimum lot frontage (ft.) 100 100 100 100 100 150 75 — 150
(d) Minimum lot width at front building setback (ft.) 100 100 100 100 100 150 75 — 150
(e) Minimum front building setback from street centerline (ft.):
(1) Arterial street 125 125 125 125 125 125 125 — 125
(2) Collector street 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 — 90
(3) Service drive(from property line) 20 20 20 30 30 40 20 — 40
(4) All other streets 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 — 55
(f) ETCOD/EL/FF NPOD maximum front building setback from street centerline (ft.):
(1) Arterial street 125 125 125 125 125 125 125 — 125
(2) Collector street 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 — 90
(3) Service drive 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 — 20
(4) All other streets 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 — 55
(g) ETCOD/EL/FF NPOD minimum front building setback from street right-of-way (ft.):
(1) Arterial street 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 — 5
(2) Collector street (from right-of-way) 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 — 5
(3) Service drive (from property line) 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 — 5
(4) All other streets 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 — 5
(h) See note below for parts of Washington Road and Columbia Road***
(1) Arterial street 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 — 100
(2) Collector street 70 70 70 70 70 70 70 — 70
(3) Service drive 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 — 20
(4) All other street 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 — 55
(i) Minimum rear building setback (ft.)** 20 20 20 30 30 40 10 10 40
(j) Minimum side building setback (ft.)** 20 20 20 30 30 40 10 5 20
(k) Maximum building height (ft.) 55 55 55 55 55 55 55 — 55
    * All lot and structure requirements in the PUD and PDD districts, unless otherwise noted, shall be subject to the board of commissioners' approval. For information concerning additional restrictions, see section 90-182.
** In the C-1, C-C and C-2 zoning districts, the side and rear building setback lines from adjoining C-1, C-C or C-2 zoned land may be reduced to three feet from the common property line between the two such parcels of land. In the C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts, the side and rear building setback lines from adjoining C-3, M-1 or M-2 zoned land may be reduced to three feet from the common property line between the two such parcels of land.
*** Minimum from building setback from street centerline (ft.) for that portion of South Washington Road CPOD beginning on its southeast end at the Columbia County/Richmond County boundary line and running and extending to the eastern right-of-way line of Kroger Road extended from the point it intersects with the southwestern right-of-way line of Washington Road straight across Washington Road to the northeastern boundary line of the South Washington Road CPOD; and that portion of Columbia Road CPOD beginning on its eastern end at Washington Road and extending westward to the eastern right-of-way line of Dowling Drive where it intersects the northern right-of-way line of Columbia Road and the eastern right-of-way line of Reed Creek Road where it intersects the southern right-of-way line of Columbia Road.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-51; Ord. No. 00-4, § 4, 6-20-2000; Ord. No. 02-15, § 4, 11-28-2002; Ord. No. 07-06, § 1, 5-15-2007; Ord. No. 07-07, § 1, 10-2-2007; Ord. No. 08-02, § 1, 2-5-2008; Ord. No. 09-02, § 2, 6-2-2009; Ord. No. 11-11, § 1(Exh. A), 3-1-2011)
_____
Sec. 90-99. - Corridor protection overlay district.
(a)
A corridor protection overlay district (CPOD) can be established to provide for and encourage the creation of a corridor with a unique identity, and to protect public health, safety and welfare through the preservation of the county's transportation corridors. The adoption of standards in a CPOD for screening, landscaping and aesthetics is necessary to ensure that future development will not degrade the character of these transportation corridors and will maintain or enhance the aesthetics and function of these transportation corridors and their ability to serve as cultural assets for the residents and visitors of Columbia County. Urban design features such as lighting, coordinated signage, street furniture and landscaping should be used to provide visual cues that tie the transportation corridor together. The screening and landscaping requirements within a CPOD are important in protecting motorists by limiting distracting visual clutter and promoting corridor appearance and character. The intent of the design review process is to assure respect for the character, integrity and quality of the built environment of a CPOD; it is not intended to stifle compatible innovative architecture or beneficial economic development.
(b)
Property located in a CPOD shall be subject to the requirements, restrictions and limitations for the zoning district in which each property is located subject to modifications made thereto by the requirements, restrictions and limitations set forth for a CPOD. Such property shall also be subject to the requirements, restrictions and limitations as herein set out which apply to a CPOD.
(c)
Property located in a CPOD shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1)
The building exterior elevation requirements stipulated in subsection 90-96(c)(1) of the Code, but excluding the provisions of that section pertaining to openings, arcades and setbacks.
(2)
The provisions of subsection 90-96(c)(2) of the Code pertaining to roofs, (3) pertaining to gutters, (5) pertaining to doors, except that all commercial buildings may be allowed overhead doors on the sides regardless of building size and single-family residences are exempt from this requirement, (7) pertaining to fences and landscaping walls, (8) pertaining to outbuildings and accessory structures, (10) pertaining to screening of mechanical equipment, garbage equipment and similar objects, except single-family residences are exempt from this requirement, and (11) pertaining to screening of loading and delivery areas.
(3)
Outdoor display of merchandise is limited to 20 percent of the entire area of a property. The percentage of area dedicated to outdoor display of merchandise may be increased up to the entire area of a property if no more than ten percent of the entire property is dedicated to outdoor display which is visible from the main thoroughfare running through the CPOD with the remainder of the outdoor display being screened from view from the main thoroughfare in the CPOD by a building, privacy fence and/or wall meeting all CPOD standards. Products for outdoor display visible from the main thoroughfare in a CPOD may not be metal sheds, metal buildings or similar metal structures. These outdoor display provisions shall not apply to automobile and truck sales and rentals.
(d)
In order not to stifle compatible innovative architecture or beneficial economic development, the Columbia County Planning Commission may review site plans, building plans and landscape/tree protection plans for any project in a CPOD which do not meet the standards and requirements of this section, and may approve variations from those standards and requirements if the planning commission finds that the variations permitted will not materially alter the unique identity and character of the CPOD, materially interfere with the architectural compatibility and aesthetic harmony of structures located within the CPOD or otherwise materially adversely affect the appearance or environment of the CPOD. Prior to approving such a variation, the Columbia County Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing advertised in the same manner as a public hearing for a variance application under subsection 90-179(c) of this chapter. Any person who appears at such public hearing and supports a position contrary to the actions taken by the planning commission may appeal the action of the planning commission to the board of commissioners of Columbia County by filing a written notice of such appeal with the clerk of the board of commissioners and the director of Columbia County Planning Services. The notice of appeal must be so filed within seven days of the date of the meeting at which the planning commission voted to take the action being appealed from. The board of commissioners shall hear such appeal at a regular or special meeting within 30 days of the date the notice of appeal is filed. The action of the board of commissioners shall be final.
(e)
The board of commissioners may create one or more CPODs within the unincorporated area of Columbia County by adopting an amendment or amendments to this section describing the boundaries of the CPOD being created, giving the CPOD a name and directing that it be shown by such name on the then-current official zoning map of Columbia County.
(f)
(1)
There is established the Fury's Ferry Road corridor Protection Overlay District (Fury's Ferry Road CPOD) which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section. The boundaries of the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on the then current official zoning map of Columbia County, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Fury's Ferry Road CPOD shall consist of all tracts of land which front on that portion of Fury's Ferry Road beginning on its western end at the Columbia County/Richmond County boundary line and extending to the Georgia/South Carolina State boundary line on its eastern end which are not located in the R-A residential agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential R-3A single-family residential and two-family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the "single-family residential zoning districts"). Any land that is in one of these single-family residential zoning districts and has road frontage on the designated portion of Fury' Ferry Road shall automatically be included in CPOD when its zoning classification is changed to a district that is not one of the single-family residential zoning districts. If a tract of land which is in the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any building, structures, signs or uses in the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD which existed on November 15, 2005 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the Fury's Ferry Road CPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132.
(2)
There is established the North Washington Road Corridor Protection Overlay District ("North Washington Road CPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section. The boundaries of the North Washington Road CPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on the then current official zoning map of Columbia County, which is incorporated herein by reference. The North Washington Road CPOD shall consist of all tracts of land which front on that portion of Washington Road beginning on the southeast end at the point where the boundary line of the northwestern side of the Evans Town Center Overlay Protection District crosses Washington Road and extending to its northwest end at the intersection of Washington Road with William Few Parkway and which are not located in the R-A residential agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential R-3A single-family residential and two-family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the "single-family residential zoning districts"). Any land that is in one of these single-family residential zoning districts and has road frontage on the designated portion of Washington Road shall automatically be included in the North Washington Road CPOD when its zoning classification is changed to a zoning district that is not one of the single-family residential zoning districts. If a tract of land which is in the North Washington Road CPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the North Washington Road CPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the North Washington Road CPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the North Washington Road CPOD which existed on November 15, 2005 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the North Washington Road CPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132.
(3)
There is established the Columbia Road Corridor Protection Overlay District ("Columbia Road CPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section 90-99. The boundaries of the Columbia Road CPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on the then current Official Zoning Map of Columbia County, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Columbia Road CPOD shall consist of all tracts of land which have any frontage on that portion of Columbia Road beginning on its eastern end at its intersection with Washington Road and extending westward to Columbia Road's intersection with the eastern right-of-way line of Shadygrove Drive extended straight across Columbia Road, but excluding any parcels which are located in the R-A residential agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential, R-3A single-family residential and two-family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the "single-family residential zoning districts"). Any land that is in one of these single-family residential zoning districts and has road frontage on the designated portion of Columbia Road shall automatically be included in the CPOD when its zoning classification is changed to a district that is not one of the single-family residential zoning districts. If a tract of land which is in the Columbia Road CPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the Columbia Road CPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the Columbia Road CPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the Columbia Road CPOD which existed on November 1, 2005 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the Columbia Road CPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter.
(4)
There is established the South Washington Road Corridor Protection Overlay District ("South Washington Road CPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section 90-99. The boundaries of the South Washington Road CPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on the then current Official Zoning Map of Columbia County, which is incorporated herein by reference. The South Washington Road CPOD shall consist of all tracts of land which have any frontage on that portion of Washington Road beginning on the southeast end at the Columbia County/Richmond County boundary line and extending to the point where the southeastern side of the Evans Town Center Overlay Protection District crosses Washington Road, but excluding any parcels which are located in the R-A residential agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential, R-3A single-family residential and two-family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the "single-family residential zoning districts"). Any land that is in one of these single-family residential zoning districts and has road frontage on the designated portion of South Washington Road shall automatically be included in the CPOD when its zoning classification is changed to a district that is not one of the single-family residential zoning districts. If a tract of land which is in the South Washington Road CPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the South Washington Road CPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the South Washington Road CPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the South Washington Road CPOD which existed on November 15, 2005 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the South Washington Road CPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter.
(5)
There is established the Belair Road Corridor Protection Overlay District ("Belair Road CPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section. The boundaries of the Belair Road CPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on the then current official zoning map of Columbia County, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Belair Road CPOD shall consist of all tracts of and which front on that portion of South Belair Road and North Belair Road beginning on its southern end at the point where South Belair Road intersects with the Richmond County/Columbia County boundary line and extending northward for 3.47 miles to a point where the southern boundary line of the Evans Town Center Overly District crosses North Belair Road, but excluding any parcels which are located in the R-A residential agricultural, R-1 single-family residential, R-1A single-family residential, R-2 single-family residential, R-3 single-family residential, R-3A single-family residential and two-family residential and R-4 single-family residential and R-4 recreational residential zoning districts (the "single-family residential zoning districts") and any parcels included within the Columbia Road Corridor Protection Overlay District. Any land that is in one of the single-family residential zoning districts and has road frontage on South Belair Road or the designated portion of North Belair Road shall automatically be included in the CPOD when its zoning classification is changed to a district that is not one of the single-family residential zoning districts. If a tract of land which is in the Belair Road CPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the Belair Road CPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the Belair Road CPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the Belair Road CPOD which existed on March 21, 2006, which are not in conformance with the requirements for the Belair Road CPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 05-06, § 1, 6-7-2005; Ord. No. 05-10, §§ 1, 2 10-18-2005; Ord. No. 05-11, § 1, 11-1-2005; Ord. No. 05-12, § 1, 11-15-2005; Ord. No. 06-03, § 1, 3-21-2006; Ord. No. 17-08 , § 19(Exh. S), 2-6-2018)
Sec. 90-100. - Node protection overlay district.
(a)
A node protection overlay district (NPOD) can be established to provide for and encourage the creation of a nodal area with a unique identity, to establish design guidelines for all development within the nodal area, to ensure compatibility of commercial development within the node as well as with nearby residential development, to reflect regional styles, to create human scaled architecture and outdoor spaces, to promote pedestrian and bicycle access to the nodal area as well as improving vehicular access and to protect public health, safety and welfare through the preservation and aesthetic enhancement of the county's nodal areas. The adoption of standards in an NPOD for design, construction, screening, landscaping and aesthetics is necessary to ensure that future development will not degrade the character of these nodal areas and will maintain or enhance the aesthetics and function of these nodal areas and their ability to serve as cultural assets for the residents and visitors of Columbia County. Urban design features such as lighting, coordinated signage, street furniture and landscaping should be used to provide visual cues that tie a nodal area together. The intent of the design review process is to assure respect for the character, integrity and quality of the built environment of a NPOD; it is not intended to stifle compatible innovative architecture within the designated style of design or beneficial economic development. A "node" is defined as the area designated by the board of commissioners which surrounds the intersection of two roads usually classified as primary arteries where concentrations of certain types of commercial, professional and in some cases residential development activity are desirable. This is designed to be a concentrated activity center for the location of more intense land uses thereby protecting abutting neighborhoods from such uses, lessening sprawl and making the most efficient use of infrastructure which serves the area.
(b)
Property located in an NPOD shall be subject to the requirements, restrictions and limitations for the zoning district in which each property is located subject to modifications made thereto by the requirements, restrictions and limitations set forth for the NPOD.
(c)
Property located in a NPOD also shall be subject to such requirements, restrictions and limitations as the ordinance creating that NPOD shall specify. In the event that any property located within an NPOD is also located within a Corridor Protection Overlay District ("CPOD") pursuant to section 90-99 of this Code, the provisions applicable to the NPOD shall apply to the property and the provision of the CPOD shall not apply to the property.
(d)
In order not to stifle compatible innovative architecture or beneficial economic development, the Columbia County Planning Commission may review site plans, building plans and landscape/tree protection plans for any project in a NPOD which do not meet the applicable standards and requirements, and may approve variations from those standards and requirements if the planning commission finds that the variations permitted will not materially alter the unique identity and character of the NPOD, materially interfere with the architectural compatibility and aesthetic harmony of structures located within the NPOD or otherwise materially adversely affect the appearance or environment of the NPOD. Prior to approving such a variation, the Columbia County Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing advertised in the same manner as a public hearing for a variance application under subsection 90-179(c) of this chapter. Any person who appears at such public hearing and supports a position contrary to the actions taken by the planning commission may appeal the action of the planning commission to the board of commissioners of Columbia County by filing a written notice of such appeal with the clerk of the board of commissioners and the director of the Columbia County Planning and Development Services Division. The notice of appeal must be so filed within seven days of the date of the meeting at which the planning commission voted to take the action being appealed from. The board of commissioners shall hear such appeal at a regular or special meeting within 30 days of the date the notice of appeal is filed. The action of the board of commissioners shall be final.
(e)
The board of commissioners may create one or more NPODs within the unincorporated area of Columbia County by adopting an amendment or amendments to this section describing the boundaries of the NPOD being created, giving the NPOD a name, setting out any requirements, restrictions and limitations which shall apply to that NPOD and directing that the NPOD be shown by its designated name on the then-current official zoning map of Columbia County.
(f)
(1)
There is established the Evans to Locks/Furys Ferry Node Protection Overlay District ("EL/FF NPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section 90-100. The boundaries of the EL/FF NPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on a map of the Evans to Locks/Furys Ferry Node Protection Overlay District prepared by the Columbia County Planning and Development Services Division dated October 19, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference and which shall be incorporated into the then current official zoning map of Columbia County, which is also incorporated herein by reference. If a tract of land which is in the EL/FF NPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the EL/FF NPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the EL/FF NPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the EL/FF NPOD which existed on January 16, 2007 which are not in conformance with the requirements for the EL/FF NPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter. The properties within the EL/FF NPOD shall be subject to the following requirements, restrictions and limitations:
A)
Architectural style. The architectural style for the EL/FF NPOD is neo-traditional. Neo-traditional architecture reflects a style which is adaptable to many different building types, and is compatible with many of the residential designs nearby. Neo-traditional architecture reflects historically inspired architectural features. Some key characteristics of neo-traditional architecture are symmetry and ample, proportionate detailing. Some features of neo-traditional architecture are:
I.
Symmetrically placed windows.
II.
Small windows ("lights") as details over doors and at other places on the facade.
III.
Columns or pilasters.
IV.
Human-scaled windows and doors.
V.
Gabled or pedimented roofs.
The developer/architect is encouraged to attend a pre-application conference to demonstrate the overall architectural concept of the project. They should be able to illustrate their design intentions with renderings, photographs or other visual means. These shall be submitted for architectural review to the Columbia County Planning and Development Division.
The developer/architect is encouraged to attend a pre-development conference to submit a preliminary design site plan, elevations listing the building materials to be used and renderings or photographs to illustrate the architectural style and proposed colors. These shall be submitted for architectural review to the Columbia County Planning and Development Division at the design stage of the project, before any construction drawings are commenced. If construction drawings are already started, then the developer and architect must be willing to make the necessary changes requested, following the architectural review.
B)
Materials. Materials must be traditional construction materials such as brick, stone or stone veneer, stucco, fiber cement board cladding or natural wood. Materials that are not permitted include vinyl and metal cladding. Metal may be used for roofing materials, balconies and railings.
C)
Colors. Colors must reflect traditional materials and colors. Predominantly neutral and earth tones are recommended, with trim colors usually in a white or black. Generally three colors are adequate for each facade.
D)
Unique element. Each development must have a unique architectural element that serves as the defining feature for the entire development, such as a clock tower.
E)
Massing, scale, and height. To create a human scale, large buildings must be broken into smaller masses. Each larger building must look like a collection of adjacent smaller buildings of different types.
I.
For smaller store sizes:
a.
The facade must have a change in setback every 40 feet minimum. This means that some storefronts will project further than others.
b.
The storefront must also have a change in material, color, fenestration, or height along with each change in setback.
II.
For larger store sizes:
a.
The preferred arrangement is to have several smaller scale stores in front, hiding the large-scale facade.
b.
As an alternative, larger stores must have a tall architectural element with a horizontal forward setback either in the center, at a major entrance or at the corner of the building.
c.
Large-scale stores over 150 feet in length must have additional variations in massing as well.
III.
The recommended height for most structures is two stories. The two story height creates a better sense of enclosure than one story without creating an overwhelming sense of scale.
a.
Variations between two and three stories are encouraged.
b.
One story buildings are permitted, but must have dormers or a similar architectural feature to create the illusion of a taller building.
F)
Recommended uses for upper floors:
I.
Residential uses are permitted on the upper floors. These may be in live-work arrangements in combination with the first floor or as separate spaces.
II.
Office uses are permitted on upper floors.
III.
Generally a mixed-use arrangement works well when the grade on the back side is higher than the grade on the front, allowing for separate ground level entrances for the various uses.
G)
Windows and doors. Facades must have regular windows and doors to increase the architectural detail and create a human scale environment. Windows and doors create visual detail and are channels for interaction between indoor and outdoor space. Windows and doors must be framed by detailing elements such as lintels, shutters, and pediments.
I.
Window regulations:
a.
At least 50 percent of the storefront between three and eight feet above ground level must be transparent glass.
b.
Upper floor windows and dormers must be evenly spaced and vertically oriented (taller than they are wide).
c.
Upper floor windows must be double-hung and have multiple, small panes.
d.
Shutters or balcony rails outside windows are encouraged.
e.
Lintels and/or brick details above and below windows are required.
II.
Door regulations:
a.
Doors must be recessed a minimum of eight inches to create an appearance of thick walls.
b.
Doorways must be made of wood, steel, fiberglass, composites or glass materials or other materials approved by the Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee. The architectural style of the door should be complimentary to the style of the building.
c.
Doorways must be traditional sizes.
d.
Lights above doors and thick door surrounds are strongly encouraged.
H)
Related regulations:
I.
Top of the facade must be marked by a detailed cornice.
II.
Dentils or other similar types of ornamentation are encouraged.
III.
Small arcades and awnings are encouraged.
IV.
If awnings are used, they must be rectangular, canvas awnings and must be maintained in good condition.
I)
Roofs. Roofs are defining architectural features. Sloped roofs for commercial buildings will help to reinforce the neo-traditional architectural theme and will help commercial development mesh with nearby residential areas.
(i)
Roof regulations:
a.
All roofs must be sloped unless otherwise provided herein.
b.
Roofs may be hipped or gabled, and a front facing pediment is encouraged.
c.
For smaller storefront types, the minimum pitch is 4:12.
d.
For larger storefronts, each massing element must have a distinct sloped roof which may be incorporated with flat roof components meeting the requirements set forth in (ii) immediately below.
e.
Roofs may be made of various materials, including traditional asphalt as well as standing seam metal.
(ii)
Sloped roofs are required for large buildings and storefronts as well:
a.
Instead of a single, large sloped roof, the building shall have a series of smaller roofs, with the roofs corresponding to the building massing.
b.
The sloped roof must be the only part of the roof visible from the front and the sides of the building. Flat roof components may be used where they are not visible from the front and sides of the building. No equipment installed on the roof may be visible from the front or the sides of the building.
c.
The sloped roof must rise to a height of at least eight feet from its lowest to its highest point for the tallest roof segment.
d.
Designs which may be used as an alternative to the sloped roof:
1.
Incorporate into the roof design a tall architectural element such as a cupola or dome in the center, at a major entrance or at the corner of the building, in which case those portions of the roof hidden from view by a decorative cornice may be a flat roof construction;
2.
Incorporate into the facade design a pediment feature that is at least one-third the width of the entire facade, is symmetrically placed within the facade design, usually in the center, and is integrally tied into a sloped roof structure covering the portion of the building behind the pediment.
J)
Site design. Site design can help create a human-scaled, pedestrian-oriented experience. The site design must emphasize the interaction of indoor and outdoor space. Outdoor spaces should encourage leisurely shopping, browsing, and gathering. It is the character of outdoor gathering spaces that creates the sense of neighborhood-friendly shopping areas.
One of two site designs is required:
I.
Small setback site design. Small setback site design balances having a street-friendly presence with enough of a setback to buffer the noise from nearby street traffic. This site design places the building fairly close to the public sidewalk. As a result, pedestrian and bicycle access is easier and shoppers are encouraged to park once and walk between shopping destinations.
a.
No more than one bay of parking (about 60 feet of pavement) can be placed between the retail promenade and the streetscape.
b.
Additional parking areas can be provided in the rear and on the edges of the site.
c.
Sidewalks of minimum five-foot width must be provided connecting any parking areas with the retail promenade area in front.
II.
Internal main street site design. Internal main street designs are also permitted. These designs incorporate a "main street" internal to the site, with building facades and retail promenades lining both sides of the main street. The goal of the main street design is to create a quiet, pedestrian friendly outdoor area internal to the site.
a.
No more than three bays of parking are permitted between the building facades.
b.
Usually the main street avenues have one-way lanes with diagonal parking, to slow down traffic and encourage convenient parking.
c.
Overflow parking is permitted on the periphery of the site, including between the public roads and the site.
III.
The backs of the buildings that face the public right-of-way must be carefully addressed:
a.
Facade materials and some treatments must be continued to the side or rear of buildings that face the right-of-way. For example, window and roof patterns must continue in a similar pattern on the side or rear.
b.
Dumpsters and utilities must not be visible from rights-of-way or from residential properties.
c.
A six-foot masonry wall is recommended between the streetscape and the rear of buildings.
d.
Loading at grade level in the rear is encouraged when possible.
For both types of site design, all parking areas must have at least one shade tree per every ten parking spaces.
K)
Retail promenade. The promenade consists of the pedestrian area immediately in front of the building facade. A well-designed promenade is essential to creating inviting, pedestrian friendly common spaces. The promenade is made inviting by its width, by the use of a variety of quality materials, and by providing amenities such as lighting, planters, and seating. The promenade serves the functions of both an outdoor place for activity and for pedestrian transportation.
I.
The retail promenade must be a minimum of ten feet in width, with an average width of 14 feet.
II.
Landscaping and/or street furniture is required on at least ten percent of the retail promenade.
III.
All-brick promenades are encouraged, and the promenade must consist of at least 50 percent brick or stone.
IV.
Paved surfaces shall be of materials that blend with nearby building materials and landscaping materials. Asphalt may not be used for any part of the promenade.
V.
Continuous pedestrian access must be available from the street sidewalk and from parking lots to the retail promenade along a minimum five-foot width sidewalk.
VI.
If the pedestrian path leading to the promenade runs along the edge of a parking area, a minimum three-foot grass or planted buffer must be provided in addition to the five-foot walkway. This ensures that cars do not infringe upon the walkway area.
L)
Parks and plazas. In addition to the retail promenade, large sites (over ten acres) must also incorporate parks and/or plazas as gathering places. Inviting gathering places help build a sense of community for nearby residents and encourage shoppers to linger. Parks and plazas must be integrated into shopping areas so that they are visible from actively used areas such as promenades or storefronts, and not placed in a hidden part of the site. In fact, a well-placed plaza may be an extension or expansion of the promenade area. A plaza can serve as an outdoor waiting area for a busy restaurant. Plazas and parks do not need "play" equipment - all that is needed is seating areas, trees and plants, shade, and perhaps a fountain or monument as a central element.
I.
The minimum size for a park or plaza is five percent of the disturbed area for sites over ten acres in size.
II.
As an alternative to a park or plaza, the developer may choose to leave at least five percent of the site land undisturbed. The undisturbed area must be forested and is subject to the approval of the planning department.
M)
Streetscapes. Streetscapes serve to improve the public appearance of a EL/FF NPOD and to enable pedestrian and bicycle access. A consistent streetscape across different properties ties together a unified design theme for the EL/FF NPOD.
I.
The streetscape consists of three parts:
a.
A landscape buffer to set the pedestrian area back from the road (street buffer).
b.
The sidewalk.
c.
A second landscape buffer to shield the view of parking areas (parking buffer).
II.
Streetscape regulations:
a.
The street buffer must be a minimum of five feet in width.
b.
The street buffer must have street trees planted every 40 feet on center, minimum.
c.
Lights must be placed at least every 40 feet in the street buffer.
d.
Two out of every three lights in the street buffer must be a pedestrian-style light, which are shorter, and of a design that matches the street lights.
e.
The parking buffer must be a minimum of five feet in width.
f.
The parking buffer must be planted with continuous shrubs or hedges a maximum of 30 inches in height.
g.
The parking buffer must have street trees planted every 40 feet on center minimum.
h.
The sidewalk area must be a minimum of eight feet in width and must be clear of any obstacles.
i.
All trees planted for streetscape requirements must be four-inch caliper minimum at time of planting.
j.
All street trees along Furys Ferry Road must be Nuttall Oaks or another tree of equal size and quality approved by the Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee.
k.
All street trees along Evans to Locks Road must be Allee Elms or another tree of equal size and quality approved by Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee.
l.
Street and pedestrian lights must be historic and decorative in character.
III.
Alternative to streetscape development:
a.
As an alternative to a streetscape, the developer may leave an area equal to the size of the required streetscape undisturbed. The undisturbed area must be located along the street edge of the development, must be forested, and is subject to the approval of the Columbia County Department of Planning and Development department.
N)
Street furniture. The use of high-quality street furniture throughout the EL/FF NPOD will create a sense of long-term investment and enhance property values. Consistent street furniture will help to unify the design character of the EL/FF NPOD. Developers must select street furniture that is similar in design, materials, and color.
Specified street furniture includes:
I.
Street lights.
II.
Pedestrian lights.
III.
Planters.
IV.
Fencing.
V.
Bollards.
VI.
Benches.
VII.
Garbage cans.
O)
Lighting. Lighting must be designed to minimize light intrusion onto neighboring properties and to preserve dark night skies. Lighting regulations:
I.
Full cut-off light fixtures are required for all street and pedestrian lights.
II.
Parking lot light fixtures must be no more than 26 feet in height.
III.
Pedestrian light fixtures must be no more than 14 feet in height.
IV.
Taller lighting is permitted along public roadways where required by the department of transportation.
V.
White spectrum lighting that preserves true color perception is required.
VI.
Accent lighting to highlight architectural and landscape elements is encouraged.
P)
Sign guidelines. Signs, while important, should be subordinate to architectural and landscape features. Signs must integrate with architectural features by matching in scale and materials with surrounding buildings.
I.
All signs must be made of quality, durable materials.
II.
Signs must coordinate with architecture in terms of materials and scale.
III.
Development signs mark the entrances to commercial complexes.
a.
Monument style signs are required with a maximum height of 20 feet.
b.
The total size of the sign face or message area shall be no more than 200 square feet, and the entire sign structure shall be no more than 300 square feet.
c.
Listing of individual tenants is discouraged. If a list is provided, consistent foreground and background color must be used throughout the sign and must coordinate with the colors used in the commercial development.
IV.
Wall-mounted signs are signs posted on buildings to advertise specific stores.
a.
The maximum letter height may be no more than 15 percent of the facade height or 36 inches, whichever is smaller.
b.
Wall-mounted signs must align with other facade elements, such as doorways and windows.
V.
Other sign regulations:
a.
Each business may have no more than three signs total.
b.
Signs that are not permitted include billboards, pole signs, banners, neon signs, balloon signs, flashing signs, moveable-type signs, and search lights.
c.
Perpendicular signs are encouraged. Generally perpendicular signs are made of wood, and may project no more than four feet from the building facade.
d.
Glass-etched signs are also encouraged. Signs on awnings are also permitted, but the size of the lettering must not be any larger than the size permitted on the building facade.
e.
Temporary signs are prohibited.
Small-scale signs can actually enhance the quality of the pedestrian environment. The key to quality signs is proper scale, quality materials, and quality craftsmanship. Colors must generally be muted and natural.
Q)
Buffers and fences. Landscaped buffers are required between any single-family use and any non-single-family use as well as between multifamily and commercial or industrial uses.
I.
A 30-foot landscaped buffer is required between any single-family use and any non-single family use.
II.
A 20-foot buffer is required between multifamily residential uses and commercial uses.
III.
The landscaped buffer shall consist of a continuous wall of mature evergreen shrubs.
IV.
Parking, storage, or other similar uses are prohibited in the buffer area.
V.
An opaque fence six feet in height must also be used for screening at the edge of the buffer. See subsection (f)(1)(R)(II) for materials which must be used in constructing such fence.
VI.
Barriers and buffers between commercial properties are not encouraged except where necessary for security. Provisions must be made to promote pedestrian and vehicular access between adjacent commercial developments.
R)
Fencing regulations:
I.
Fencing must be opaque if used for security and privacy purposes. Decorative walls/fences must compliment the architecture of the development.
II.
Fence/wall materials can be pressure treated natural wood, brick, stucco and stone. Fence and wall finishes should complement the materials used on the buildings in the development.
III.
Screen walls must be high enough to screen dumpsters and utilities up to a maximum of eight feet in height.
IV.
Fencing around detention ponds may be wrought iron, painted aluminum or black vinyl coated chain link with heavy landscaping. The Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee must approve the material used based on site specific design criteria.
S)
Other requirements. Commercial developments in the Evans to Locks/Fury's Ferry EL/FF NPOD must not present visual blight to any public right-of-way or any residential property. Preventing visual blight can best be done primarily by proper site design and secondarily by screening.
The following regulations apply:
I.
Utility wires must be buried for any new commercial development.
II.
Outdoor storage of merchandise or materials is not permitted.
III.
Utilities and dumpsters must be out of view.
IV.
Loading and service areas must be out of view from public rights-of-way.
(T)
Definitions: The terms used in this section shall have the meanings as follows:
I.
Bay of parking — Two rows of parking, facing opposite directions and accessed by a single aisle.
II.
Column — In classical architecture, a cylindrical support consisting of a base, shaft, and capital.
III.
Cornice — The exterior trim of a structure at the meeting of the roof and wall; any molded projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed.
IV.
Dentil — One of a band of small, square, tooth like blocks forming part of the characteristic ornamentation of the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.
V.
Development sign — Free-standing sign that indicates an entire development.
VI.
Dormers — A structure projecting above a sloping roof, usually housing a vertical window.
VII.
Facade — The exterior face of a building which is the architectural front, sometimes distinguished from the other faces by elaboration of architectural or ornamental details.
VIII.
Fenestration — The arrangement and design of windows in a building.
IX.
Full cut-off light fixture — A light fixture where no light is shed above the horizontal line of the head of the light fixture.
X.
Gable — A roof having a single slope on each side of a central ridge; also, a vertical surface commonly situated at the end of a building, usually adjoining a pitched roof.
XI.
Hipped — A roof comprising adjacent flat surfaces that slope upward from all sides of the perimeter of the building, requiring a hip rafter along each intersection of the inclined surfaces.
XII.
Human scale — The arrangement of structures, spaces, and details in a way that relates well to the proportions of the human body and its normal operations.
XIII.
Lights — An aperture through which daylight is admitted to the interior of a building; a pane of glass, a window, or a compartment of a window.
XIV.
Lintels — A horizontal structural member (such as a beam) over an opening which carries the weight of the wall above it; usually of steel, stone, or wood.
XV.
Massing — The visual appearance of distinct, discrete solid spaces occupied by a structure.
XVI.
Neo-traditional — An architectural style which reflects historically inspired architectural features.
XVII.
Intentionally left blank.
XVIII.
Pediment — In Classical architecture, a triangular gable usually having a horizontal cornice, with raked cornices on each side, surmounting or crowning a portico or another major division of a facade, end wall, or colonnade.
XIX.
Perpendicular sign — A sign that is oriented at a perpendicular angle to the facade and so encroaches into the space in front of the facade.
XX.
Pilaster — An engaged pier or pillar, often with a capital and base; or decorative features that imitate engaged piers but are not supporting structures, as a rectangular or semicircular member used as a simulated pillar in entrances or other door openings and fireplace mantels.
XXI.
Promenade — A suitable place for walking for pleasure, as a mall.
XXII.
Scale — A system of proportion by which a building and its various parts relate to each other in size or extent.
XXIII.
Setback — The minimum distance between a reference line (usually a property line) and a building or portion thereof as required by ordinance or code.
XXIV.
Site design — The arrangement of building and landscape materials on a site to achieve desired purposes, such as access or pleasing views.
XXV.
Streetscape — The treatment of landscape immediately adjacent to a public street, usually involving a sidewalk, street furniture, trees and usually for the benefit of pedestrian use.
(2)
There is established the Belair/Columbia Node Protection Overlay District ("Belair/Columbia NPOD") which shall be subject to all of the provisions of this section 90-100. The boundaries of the Belair/Columbia NPOD and the land included therein shall be as shown on a map of the Belair/Columbia Node Protection Overlay District prepared by the Planning and Columbia County Development Services Division dated October 19, 2006, which is incorporated herein by reference and which shall be incorporated into the then current Official Zoning Map of Columbia County, which is also incorporated herein by reference. If a tract of land which is in the Belair/Columbia NPOD is combined with a tract of land which is not in the Belair/Columbia NPOD, the entire combined tract shall automatically be included in the Belair/Columbia NPOD except for any portion of such combined tract which is located in any of the single-family residential zoning districts. Any buildings, structures, signs or uses in the Belair/Columbia NPOD which existed on August 7, 2007, which are not in conformance with the requirements for the Belair/Columbia NPOD shall be treated as nonconforming buildings, structures, signs or uses pursuant to section 90-132 of this chapter. The properties within the Belair/Columbia NPOD shall be subject to the following requirements, restrictions and limitations:
A)
Architectural style. The architectural style for the Belair/Columbia NPOD is traditional southern vernacular. This style reflects native styles and local architectural models which are found in historic town centers such as downtown Augusta or Athens. Buildings would be no more than 50 feet wide without variations in massing, height, material, and facade ornamentation which is used to break up large buildings so they appear as a series of smaller buildings. Features of southern vernacular commercial architecture include:
I.
Parapet walls.
II.
Cornice lines at top of facade.
III.
Decorative patterns in brick arrangements or by using varied materials.
IV.
Columns or pilasters.
V.
Store front windows.
VI.
Awnings.
VII.
Arcades.
The developer/architect is encouraged to attend a pre-application conference to demonstrate the overall architectural concept of the project. They should be able to illustrate their design intentions with renderings, photographs or other visual means. These shall be submitted for architectural review to the Columbia County Planning and Development Division.
The developer/architect is encouraged to attend a pre-development conference to submit a preliminary design site plan, elevations listing the building materials to be used and renderings or photographs to illustrate the architectural style and proposed colors. These shall be submitted for architectural review to the Columbia County Planning and Development Division at the design stage of the project, before any construction drawings are commenced. If construction drawings are already started, then the developer and architect must be willing to make the necessary changes requested, following the architectural review.
B)
Materials. Materials must be traditional construction materials such as brick, stone or stone veneer, stucco, fiber cement board cladding or natural wood. Materials that are not permitted include vinyl and metal cladding. Metal may be used for roofing materials, balconies and railings.
C)
Colors. Colors are required to reflect traditional materials. Predominantly neutral and earth tones reflecting traditional materials are recommended, with trim colors usually in a white or black. No more than three colors may be used for each facade.
D)
Massing, scale, and height. Human-scale details are encouraged. Human-scale detail can be provided by the use of smaller scale windows and doors. Patterns of brick or patterns of materials create additional detailing. Variations in material or design at the top and bottom of columns also provide visual detail. Cornice lines and other horizontal lines provide a variation in material and color as well. To create a human-scale, large buildings must be broken into smaller masses. At the same time, buildings must have sufficient height to create an architectural presence.
I.
Every building must have a change in height and setback every 50 feet minimum. Usually these changes should occur along with changes in the facade materials.
II.
Storefronts wider than 70 feet must have a height element, a piece of the building that is higher than other surrounding pieces. Usually this height element should be in the center of the building, though it may also be placed at the comer.
III.
The minimum height of the highest point on the facade must be 18 feet, while the minimum average height for the facade must be at least 15 feet.
IV.
The use of parapet walls is encouraged to hide utilities located on the roof.
V.
The maximum height for all buildings is 55 feet.
E)
Facades, side, and rear. Human-scale detail and variation must be used to make facades interesting and inviting. Facades must be detailed and varied through the use of windows, doors, awnings, materials, height and pattern. The rear and sides of a building may be less detailed so long as they are not visible from the public right-of-way or other private properties.
I.
The facade must vary a minimum of every 50 feet with a change of material, height, or decorative pattern.
II.
A detailed cornice is required at the top of every facade.
III.
The cornice line itself is a decorative horizontal element.
IV.
The regular use of columns or pilasters is strongly encouraged.
V.
Columns must have variation of material or thickness to indicate their base and capital and must occur at least every 15 feet.
VI.
Columns must be used when the building provides an arcade.
VII.
Other permitted materials may be used on the side and the rear so long as these areas are not visible from the public right-of-way or other private properties.
VIII.
If the rear or side is visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent properties, the same material must be used on these sides and decorative patterns of materials, windows, awnings, and columns must be continued to these visible areas.
F)
Windows and doors. Windows and doors are important architectural elements that create visual interest and are channels for interaction between indoor and outdoor space. Creating repetitive but varied patterns of human scaled windows and doors is an effective way to break down large-scale facades.
I.
The main entryway must be marked with a prominent entry feature, such as columns, awnings, or a raised architectural element.
II.
Human-scale doors are encouraged.
III.
Doors made of glass with surrounding windows are encouraged.
IV.
Store front displays of goods are encouraged.
V.
Signs in store front windows that block views into the store are discouraged.
VI.
Each building must have a minimum of 20 percent glazing (glass covered areas).
VII.
Tinted and darkened glass is not permitted.
G)
Roof form. Traditional Southern Vernacular architecture is often defined by the use of parapet walls. Parapet walls increase the sense of presence of the building, screen rooftop utilities, and serve as an opportunity for ornamentation.
I.
Parapet walls must screen all roof equipment.
II.
Parapet walls must be made of the same material as the building facade, though the cornice material may vary.
III.
Metal parapet walls are not permitted.
IV.
The parapet wall must vary in height at least one foot for every 50 feet of length.
V.
Decorative variations in the shape and height of the parapet wall are encouraged.
VI.
As an alternative to using parapet walls, sloped roofs are also permitted. All sloped roofs must meet in a clear roof line or peak.
H)
Arcades and awnings. All buildings must have either regular arcades or awnings. These are important decorative elements that also provide shade and shelter for pedestrians.
I.
Arcade regulations:
a.
Arcades must span at least half of the length of the facade.
b.
Arcades must be integrated into the building facade and be composed of the same materials as the facade.
c.
No separate arcades that are attachments to the facade are permitted.
d.
All arcades must be supported by decorative columns composed of material used elsewhere in the facade.
e.
Arcades must provide at least eight feet of clear walking distance between the facade and the face of the columns supporting the arcade.
Regular awnings may be used instead of arcades.
II.
Awning regulations:
a.
Awnings must cover at least half the length of the facade.
b.
Awnings must be rectangular in shape, made of canvas, and of a single color. A second color may be used for store name.
c.
Canvas awnings must be maintained in good condition.
d.
The store name may be included on awnings, but no other writing is permitted.
I)
Site design.
I.
The main goals for site design in the Belair/Columbia NPOD are to improve the level of landscaping, improve pedestrian circulation, and to break up large parking areas.
a.
Site designs that place a portion of the parking behind the building are encouraged to break up large parking areas.
b.
Creating designated pathways and driveways for interparcel access between commercial parcels for pedestrians and vehicles is encouraged.
c.
The number of curb cuts off of major thoroughfares such as Columbia Road and Belair Road should be minimized, and the distance between curb cuts should be adequate to allow efficient traffic flow.
d.
All parking areas must have at least one shade tree for every 12 parking spaces.
(II)
The basic components of site design at the Belair/Columbia NPOD are:
a.
A streetscape at the front of the site, adjacent to the street.
b.
A parking area behind the streetscape and in front of the building.
c.
A retail promenade behind the parking area and directly in front of the building.
d.
The commercial buildings.
e.
Loading and other service areas behind the buildings.
f.
Buffers where necessary at the back of the site.
(III)
Pedestrian access. One of the goals of the Belair/Columbia NPOD is to improve the quality and safety of pedestrian access. Pedestrian access from the sidewalk and between parcels should be considered during site design, and pedestrian routes must be designated in the site plan.
a.
Continuous pedestrian access must be provided from the sidewalk to the primary building entrance.
b.
Pedestrian pathways must be a minimum five feet in width.
c.
Where a pedestrian route crosses a vehicular circulation area, signs and pavement markings must be provided to indicate to drivers that they are crossing a designated pedestrian route.
d.
Pedestrian access routes must not involve substantial grade changes or other obstacles to safe pedestrian access.
e.
If the pedestrian path runs along the edge of a parking area, a minimum three-foot grass or planted buffer must be provided in addition to the five-foot walkway. This ensures that cars do not infringe upon the walkway area.
J)
Retail promenade. Creating a retail promenade will enhance the shoppers' experience and improve the image of the Belair/Columbia NPOD. The retail promenade consists of a pedestrian area, plantings, and street furniture all provided immediately in front of the building facade. This creates a place for shoppers to walk and possibly take breaks during their shopping experience.
I.
The retail promenade must be a minimum of eight feet in width, with an average width of ten feet.
II.
Landscaping and/or street furniture is required on at least ten percent of the retail promenade.
III.
Paved surfaces shall be of materials that blend with nearby building materials and landscaping materials. Asphalt may not be used for any part of the promenade.
IV.
Any covered arcade area qualifies as part of the retail promenade.
K)
Streetscapes. Streetscapes serve to improve the public appearance of the Belair/Columbia NPOD and to enable pedestrian and bicycle access. A consistent streetscape across different properties ties together a unified design theme for the Belair/Columbia NPOD and will help to define it as a gateway to the county.
(I)
The streetscape consists of three parts:
a.
A landscape buffer to set the pedestrian area back from the road (street buffer).
b.
The sidewalk.
c.
A second landscape buffer to shield the view of parking areas (parking buffer).
(II)
Streetscape regulations:
a.
The street buffer must be a minimum of five feet in width.
b.
Lights must be placed every 40 feet in the street buffer.
c.
Every other light in the street buffer must be a shorter, pedestrian-style light of a kind that matches the street lights.
d.
Both pedestrian and street lights must be capable of accommodating decorative banners to mark events or create a sense of a gateway into Columbia County.
e.
The parking buffer must be a minimum of five feet in width.
f.
The parking buffer must be planted with continuous shrubs or hedges a maximum of 30 inches in height.
g.
The parking buffer must have street trees planted every 40 feet on center minimum.
h.
The sidewalk area must be a minimum of five feet in width, and the five-foot width must be clear of any obstacles.
i.
All trees planted for streetscape requirements must be four-inch caliper minimum at time of planting.
j.
Street trees are required along Belair Road and Columbia Road. The Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee shall determine the type or types of trees that are required to be used based upon the site conditions and utility installations in the areas where such trees are to be planted.
k.
Street and pedestrian lights must be historic and decorative in character.
L)
Street furniture. The use of high-quality street furniture throughout the Belair/Columbia NPOD will create a sense of long-term investment. Consistent street furniture will help to unify the design character of the Belair/Columbia NPOD. Developers must select street furniture that is similar in design, materials, and color. Street and pedestrian lights must be capable of accommodating banners.
Specified street furniture includes:
I.
Street lights.
II.
Pedestrian lights.
III.
Planters.
IV.
Fencing.
V.
Bollards.
VI.
Benches.
VII.
Garbage cans.
M)
Lighting. Lighting must be designed to minimize light intrusion onto neighboring properties and to preserve dark night skies. Lighting regulations:
I.
Full cut-off light fixtures are required for all street and pedestrian lights.
II.
Parking lot light fixtures must be no more than 26 feet in height.
III.
Pedestrian light fixtures must be no more than 14 feet in height.
IV.
Taller lighting is permitted along public roadways where required by the department of transportation.
V.
White spectrum lighting that preserves true color perception is required.
VI.
Accent lighting to highlight architectural and landscape elements is encouraged.
N)
Sign guidelines. Signs, while important, should generally be subordinate to architectural and landscape features. Signs must integrate with architectural features by matching in scale and materials with surrounding buildings.
I.
All signs must be made of quality, durable materials.
II.
Signs must coordinate with architecture in terms of materials and scale.
III.
Development signs mark the entrances to commercial complexes:
a.
Monument style signs are required with a maximum height of 20 feet.
b.
The total size of the sign face or message area shall be no more than 200 square feet, and the entire sign structure shall be no more than 300 square feet.
c.
Listing of individual tenants is discouraged. If a list is provided, consistent foreground and background color must be used throughout the sign and must coordinate with the colors used in the commercial development.
IV.
Wall-mounted signs are signs posted on buildings to advertise specific stores:
a.
The maximum letter height may be no more than 20 percent of the facade height or 48 inches, whichever is smaller.
b.
Wall-mounted signs must align with other facade elements, such as doorways and windows.
V.
Other sign regulations:
a.
Each business may have no more than three signs total.
b.
Signs that are not permitted include billboards, pole signs, banners, neon signs, balloon signs, flashing signs, moveable-type signs, and search lights.
O)
Buffers and fences. Landscaped buffers are required between any single family residential use and any non-single family residential use as well as between multifamily residential and commercial or industrial uses.
I.
A 20-foot buffer is required between single family residential uses and any other land use.
II.
A 20-foot buffer is required between multifamily residential uses and commercial uses
III.
The landscaped buffer shall consist of a continuous wall of mature evergreen shrubs.
IV.
Parking, storage, or other similar uses are prohibited in the buffer area.
V.
An opaque fence six feet in height must also be used for screening at the edge of the buffer. See subsection (f)(2)P.II. for materials which must be used in constructing such fence.
VI.
Barriers and buffers between commercial properties are not encouraged except where necessary for security. In fact, provisions shall be made to promote pedestrian and vehicular access between adjacent commercial developments.
P)
Fencing regulations:
I.
Fencing must be opaque if used for security and privacy purposes. Decorative walls/fences must compliment the architecture of the development.
II.
Fence/wall materials can be pressure treated natural wood, brick, stucco and stone. Fence and wall finishes should complement the materials used on the buildings in the development.
III.
Fencing around detention ponds may be wrought iron, painted aluminum or black vinyl coated chain link with heavy landscaping and the Director of Columbia County Planning and Development or his designee will make the determination depending on site specific design criteria.
IV.
Screen walls must be high enough to screen dumpsters and utilities up to a maximum of eight feet in height.
Q)
Other requirements. Commercial developments in the Belair/Columbia NPOD must not present visual blight to any public right-of-way or any residential property. Preventing visual blight can best be done primarily by proper site design and secondarily by screening. The following regulations apply:
I.
Utility wires must be buried by the developer for any new commercial development with more than 150 feet of frontage on Columbia Road or Belair Road. High voltage utility wires arc excluded from this requirement.
II.
Outdoor storage of merchandise or materials is not permitted.
III.
Utilities and dumpsters must be out of view of both the public right-of-way and nearby residential properties.
IV.
Loading and service areas must be out of view from public rights-of-way.
Definitions: The terms used in this section shall have the meanings as follows:
I.
Arcade—A covered walk, lit from the top, lined with shops or offices on one or more levels.
II.
Awning—A roof-like covering of canvas, or the like, oft en adjustable, over a window, door, etc. to provide protection against the sun, rain, and wind.
III.
Base—The lowest visible part of a building, often distinctively treated.
IV.
Capital—The topmost structure member of a column, pilaster, anta, or the like, often decorated.
V.
Column—In classical architecture, a cylindrical support consisting of a base, shaft, and capital
VI.
Cornice—The exterior trim of a structure at the meeting of the roof and wall: any molded projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed.
[VII.]
Reserved.
VIII.
Development sign—Free-standing sign that indicates an entire development.
IX.
Facade—The exterior face of a building which is the architectural front sometimes distinguished from the other faces by elaboration of architectural or ornamental details.
X.
Full cut-off light fixture—A light fixture where no light is shed above the horizontal line of the head of the light fixture.
XI.
Glazing—The glass surface of an opening; a window or door with glass.
XII.
Height element—A part of a building where the facade raises to a greater height than adjacent parts of the building.
XIII.
Human scale—The arrangement of structures, spaces, and details in a ""ray that relates well to the proportions of the human body and its normal operations.
XIV.
Interparcel access—Routes for vehicles or pedestrians to move between two independently owned or managed parcels without using the public right-of-way.
XV.
Massing—The visual appearance of distinct, discrete solid spaces occupied by a structure.
XVI.
Parapet wall—The part of a wall which is entirely above the roof.
XVII.
Pilaster—An engaged pier or pillar, often with a capital and base: Or decorative features that imitate engaged piers but are not supporting structures, as a rectangular or semicircular member used as a simulated pillar in entrances or other door openings and fireplace mantels.
XVIII.
Promenade—A suitable place for walking for pleasure, as a mall.
XIX.
Scale—A system of proportion by which a building and its various parts relate to each other in size or extent.
XX.
Site design—The arrangement of building and landscape materials on a site to achieve desired purposes, such as access or pleasing views.
(Ord. No. 06-08, § 1, 1-16-2007; Ord. No. 06-09, § 1, 1-16-2007; Ord. No. 06-10, §1(Exh. A), 10-2-2007; Ord. No. 08-07, §§ 1—16, 12-16-2008; Ord. No. 08-08, §§ 1—9, 12-16-2008)
Secs. 90-101—90-130. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 90-131. - In general.
The following requirements shall apply in all zoning districts in the unincorporated areas of the county:
(1)
Conformity. No structure or land shall be used, and no structure shall be erected, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and other provisions of this Code.
(2)
Sewage, rubbish and other liquid and solid waste. No discharge shall be allowed into any private sewage disposal system, into the ground, or into any stream of any materials of such nature or temperature which can contaminate any water supply or otherwise create a harmful effect on groundwater or surface water, except in accordance with county health standards and applicable laws. No garbage, rubbish or other solid wastes shall be stored outdoors or allowed to accumulate in areas which can be viewed from the streets or alleys adjoining such area for periods in excess of 24 hours. All solid wastes stored outdoors shall be kept in tightly covered containers.
(3)
Maximum residential occupancy. No single-family, two-family or multifamily dwelling unit containing a gross floor area of 800 square feet or less, shall be occupied by more than four people. Dwelling units containing more than 800 square feet, but not more than 1,200 square feet, shall not be occupied by more than seven people. Dwelling units containing a gross floor area in excess of 1,200 square feet may be allowed one additional occupant for each 500 square feet of gross floor area in excess of 1,200 square feet.
(4)
Exemptions to height restrictions. The following structures, or parts thereof, are exempt from the height limitations set forth in this chapter:
a.
Agricultural buildings such as barns, silos, windmills, grain elevators and other farm structures, but not including dwellings.
b.
Cooling towers, gas holders or other industrial structures where required by the manufacturing process.
c.
Church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, observation towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, smokestacks, derricks, conveyors, radio towers and aerials.
d.
Additional building heights may be authorized in the C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2 and PUD districts by the planning commission after approval of such building heights by the fire marshal.
(5)
Street access control. In order to promote the safety of motorists and pedestrians and to minimize traffic congestion and conflict, the following regulations shall apply:
a.
All commercial driveway locations, widths, and configurations shall be approved by the county after having been designed and stamped by a professional engineer (PE), licensed in the State of Georgia, in accordance with the most current version of Columbia County's "Project Access Improvement Policy", the Georgia Department of Transportation's Regulations for Driveway Encroachment Control, the American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials "Green Book," the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
b.
For residential uses, no more than two points of vehicular access from a property to each abutting public street shall be permitted.
c.
Along collector and arterial streets, no more than one point of vehicular access from a development or subdivision shall be permitted for each 300 feet of lot frontage; provided, however, that property with less than 300 feet of frontage shall have no more than one point of access to any one local street, and provided further that:
1.
Nonresidential developments that will result in two or more lots shall limit direct access to collector and arterial streets through the use of shared driveways and internal access to the greatest extent practical.
2.
Residential subdivisions shall limit direct access to collector and arterial streets through the use of reverse-frontage lots or other techniques as provided in section 74-82.
d.
Interparcel access requirements are as follows:
1.
Internal access easements. For any office or retail sales or services use, the property owner shall grant an access easement as set forth in subsection (5)e.2. of this section to each adjoining property that is zoned or used for an office or retail sales or services use. The purpose of the easement is to facilitate movement of customers from business to business, without generating additional turning movements on the public street.
2.
Access easements.
i.
The access easement shall be at least 30 feet in width, and shall permit two-way automobile access from the adjoining property to driveways and parking areas intended for customer or tenant use, but parking spaces may be restricted to use by the owner's customers and tenants only.
ii.
The granting of an access easement shall be effective upon the granting of a reciprocal easement by the adjoining property owner.
iii.
Upon the availability of access to driveways and parking areas of the adjoining lot, the pavement or other surfacing of the owner's driveways and parking areas shall be extended to the point of access on the property line.
iv.
The easement shall be granted for a term that will expire upon the rezoning of either property to a residential zoning district, and shall provide that maintenance of the driveway connection be the responsibility of the owner of each property on which the driveway is located.
3.
Relief. Where the proposed land use is such that adverse impact or impracticability of the required easement on use of the property would outweigh the reduced impact on the public street provided by the reciprocal easements, the planning commission may administratively waive the requirement of access easements, in whole or in part.
e.
No point of access shall be allowed within 35 feet of the right-of-way line of any street intersection.
f.
No curbs or medians on county roads or rights-of-way shall be cut or altered for access without approval of the county engineer.
(6)
Maximum depth of residential lots.
a.
Any lot in a residential zoning district which consists of more than three acres and has a lot width of more than 300 feet is not otherwise restricted to its lot depth, provided that the lot shall comply with all other requirements of this Code, and shall have been complied with the provisions of chapter 74.
b.
Any lot in a residential zoning district consisting of three acres or less, or having a lot width of 300 feet or less, shall have a lot depth no greater than five times the lot's width, unless a greater lot depth is specifically approved by the planning commission.
(7)
Single-family and two-family dwellings. All site-built/industrialized/modular single-family detached dwellings, manufactured homes, mobile homes and two-family dwellings shall meet or exceed the following requirements:
a.
Each dwelling shall be connected to a potable water supply and sanitary sewage disposal system which is approved by the county health department.
b.
Foundation requirements shall be as follows:
1.
The structure shall be attached to a permanent foundation which is constructed in accordance with the building code for site-built buildings, state law for industrialized buildings or state law and guidelines of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for manufactured homes.
2.
Upon placement of a manufactured home, all means of transportation, such as towing devices, tongue, brakes, wheels, axles and hitches shall have been removed.
3.
The area beneath the structure shall be enclosed around the exterior of the structure with masonry, including, but not limited to brick, concrete, rock or other masonry materials that have been approved by the building inspector, penetrated by openings only for installed vents and access doors. This subsection shall apply to nonload bearing curtain walls, but not to load bearing curtain walls around the periphery of a manufactured home.
c.
Exterior siding materials shall consist of wood, brick, stone, concrete, stucco or similar materials, or lap siding of Masonite, metal, vinyl or similar materials, or any combination of such thereof.
d.
Roof requirements shall be as follows:
1.
All roof surfaces shall have a minimum pitch of 2¼ inches of rise for every 12 inches of run, except that mansard and gambrel roofs must meet this requirement only for those surfaces that rise from the eaves of the structure.
2.
All roof surfaces exposed to view shall be covered with asphalt or fiberglass shingles, wood shakes or shingles, standing seam (noncorrugated) tin, clay tiles, slate or similar materials.
e.
A porch or landing shall be provided within two steps from each exterior door, which porch or landing shall be at least 48 inches in width and 36 inches in depth.
f.
The minimum width of the structure shall be greater than 16 feet.
g.
The building official may approve deviations from the requirements of this section on the basis of a finding that the materials to be utilized or the architectural style proposed for the dwelling unit will be compatible with, and harmonious or superior to, existing structures in the vicinity, and that such deviation shall be consistent with the intent of this section.
h.
The dwelling shall be constructed in accordance with all applicable requirements of the building code as adopted by the county, or in accordance with the standards established by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act or the Georgia Industrialized Buildings Act for residential industrialized buildings.
(8)
Minimum street standards. All streets located or to be located within or abutting a subdivision or other land development project shall comply with the right-of-way width and street construction standards set forth in chapter 74 of this Code, and the construction standards and specifications adopted by the board of commissioners, for the appropriate classification of the street as shown in the growth management plan, as well as comply with specific road design requirements for street projects that have been engineered by the state department of transportation or the county. All new streets shall be constructed to the applicable standards. Existing substandard streets shall be improved to the minimum standards for a land service or local street along the land development's frontage as part of the development project's improvements.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-60; Ord. No. 00-8, § 4, 8-15-2000; Ord. No. 11-07, § 1, 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 17-09 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-5-2017)
Sec. 90-132. - Nonconforming uses of land and structures.
(a)
Intent. It is intent of this section to avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights; however, this chapter recognizes that the elimination of existing structures and uses that are not in conformity with this chapter is as much a subject of health, safety and general welfare as is the prevention of the establishment of new uses which would violate the purpose, intent and provisions of this chapter. A structure, building or use which was lawfully established before the effective date of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, and which does not conform to one or more of the requirements of this chapter, is a nonconformity.
(b)
Continuation in perpetuity. A nonconforming use, building or other structure may be continued in perpetuity, subject to the following conditions that the nonconforming use, building or sign not be:
(1)
Changed to or replaced by another nonconforming use.
(2)
Expanded or enlarged in any way.
(3)
Reestablished, repaired, replaced or rebuilt after damage to the extent of 75 percent or more of its value.
(4)
Reestablished after discontinuance of operation for one year.
(c)
Maintenance and repairs.
(1)
On a nonconforming structure, or portion thereof, which contains a nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 75 percent of the current replacement cost of the nonconforming structure, or portion thereof, provided that the bulk existing when such structure became nonconforming shall not be increased.
(2)
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building, or part thereof, which is declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
(d)
Nonconforming lots. A lot that was a lot of record prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, which does not meet the minimum area, width or frontage requirements of this chapter, may be used as a building site, provided that access is provided directly from a public street or through a private easement, and provided that minimum building setbacks are not reduced more than 20 percent of the minimum building setbacks set forth in this chapter; provided, however, that the setback shall not be reduced to less than 15 feet from the right-of-way.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-61)
Sec. 90-133. - Parking.
(a)
Off-street parking required. At the time of the establishment of or change to a permitted use as set forth in sections 90-50 and 90-97, or erection of any building, or at the time any principal building is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guest rooms, seats and/or floor area, there shall be provided permanent off-street parking spaces, improved with an asphalt or concrete surface, in accordance with the following:
(1)
Combination of required parking space. The required parking spaces for any number of separate uses may be combined in one lot, but the required parking spaces assigned to each use may not be assigned to another use, except where the parking spaces required for churches or other assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night, on Sunday or another time, does not coincide with an adjacent use, such required parking spaces may be assigned to the adjacent use.
(2)
Proximity of off-street parking spaces to use. All required parking spaces for all uses shall be either on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building or open use area such parking spaces are to serve; provided, however, that no required parking spaces may be located across any arterial street from the use such parking spaces are intended to serve.
(3)
Design of parking lots.
a.
Except for parcels of land devoted to one-family and two-family residential uses, all areas devoted to off-street parking shall be designed and of such size that no vehicle is required to back into a public street to obtain access to such public street.
b.
Each parking space shall not be less than nine feet wide by 18 feet long, except that handicapped spaces shall comply with the requirements of the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act.
c.
An off-street parking plan and calculations to include the number of spaces required by code and the number of spaces provided by the applicant shall be required and shall accompany all applications for development approval.
(4)
Off-street parking by use. The minimum and maximum number of off-street parking spaces required for each type of use shall be determined by the following table, to include the number of spaces required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. The developer can provide parking spaces not less than the minimum amount or up to the maximum amount. The reference to area in square feet relates to the gross floor area of the entire building being served by the off street parking spaces.
EXPAND
Parking Requirements for Non-Retail and Non-Commercial
Category Use Minimum Number
of Spaces Maximum Number
of Spaces
Assembly Areas—Indoor Auditorium 1 per 6 seats 1 per 4 seats
Theater 1 per 6 seats 1 per 4 seats
Place of Worship 1 per 4 fixed seats + 1 per 500 square feet of other area 1 per 2 fixed seats + 1 per 350 square feet of other area
Funeral Home 1 per 4 seats in main assembly 1 per 2 seats in main assembly
Assembly Areas—Outdoor Stadium 1 per 6 seats 1 per 4 seats
Outdoor Assembly 1 per 6 seats or 1 per 50 square feet if no seats 1 per 4 seats or 1 per 30 square feet if no seats
Residential Single Family Dwelling 2 per Unit N/A
Duplex 1.5 per unit 2 per Unit
Multifamily Dwelling 1.5 per unit 2.5 per unit
Group Dwelling 1.1 per bed 1.3 per bed
Boarding House 1 per bedroom 1.5 per bedroom
Rooming House 1 per bedroom 1 per bedroom
Hotel/Motel/Tourist Home 0.7 per room + 1 per 300 square feet of common area 1 per room + 1 per 100 square feet of common area
Bed & Breakfast 0.5 per room + 1 per owner 1 per room + 2 per owner
Assisted Living 1.1 per bed 1.3 per bed
Medical/Dental Medical/Dental Clinic 3 per Doctor + 2 per treatment room 5 per Doctor + 2.5 per treatment room
Hospital 1 per bed + 1 per 300 square feet of office and Admin space 1 per 150 square feet
Schools Elementary School 1 per classroom 2 per classroom
Middle School 1 per classroom 2 per classroom
High School 3 per classroom 5 per classroom
Day Care/Preschool 2 + 1 per 6 children 3 + 1 Per 4 children
  EXPAND
Parking Requirements for Retail and Commercial
Use Minimum Number of Spaces Maximum Number of Spaces
Automotive Repair 3 per rack 4 per rack
Automobile/Truck Sales 1 per 500 square feet of sales and service building 1 per 375 square feet of sales and service building
Contractors Office 1 per 600 square feet 1 per 350 square feet
Fast Food 1 per 100 square feet 1 per 75 square feet
Financial Institutions 1 per 350 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
General Commercial Use 1 per 350 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Home Improvement Center 1 per 300 square feet of sales and service building 1.5 per 400 square feet of sales and service building
Industrial Uses 1 per 600 square feet 1 per 350 square feet
Laboratories: Dental, Medical, Optical 1 per 400 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Manufactured Home Sales 1 per 500 square feet of sales and service building 1 per 400 square feet of sales and service building
Mini Warehouse 1 per 30 storage units 1 per 10 storage units
Office/Warehouse Use 1 per 300 square feet office area + 1 per 1500 square feet storage 1 per 200 square feet office area + 1 per 1000 square feet storage
Pharmacy/Drugstore 1 per 350 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Professional Offices 1 per 350 square feet 1 per 200 square feet
Recreational Vehicle Sales 1 per 500 square feet of sales and service building 1 per 400 square feet of sales and service building
Restaurants 1 per 200 square feet 1 per 100 square feet
Utility Structure Sales 1 per 500 square feet of sales and service building 1 per 400 square feet of sales and service building
  (5)
Restriction on use of required parking. The required off-street parking shall be for employees, occupants, customers, clients and visitors of the business supplying the required parking spaces, and shall be limited in use to temporary parking of motor vehicles with current license plates. The storage or parking of merchandise or motor vehicles for sale, the servicing or repairing of vehicles or equipment and regular truck loading and unloading is prohibited in such required parking spaces.
(6)
Administrative variation of parking requirements. The number of parking spaces required by this section may be increased or decreased upon approval by the director based on the actual use of a property.
(7)
Pervious surface requirements. The department director or his/her designee (collectively the "director") may approve an alternative permanent surface material or a substitute for concrete curbs, or both, which the director determines best fits the needs of the parking application.
a.
In making such a determination the director must find that:
1.
The alternative surface will not degrade the public street;
2.
The alternative surface will adequately withstand the anticipated parking demand; and
3.
The alternative surface will reduce the impervious surface area of the parcel or parking lot.
b.
The following provisions apply to parking areas where a pervious surface treatment is applied to the area dedicated for surface parking spaces and drive aisles:
1.
Parking lot areas eligible for pervious or permeable surfaces include parking spaces and access aisles but not driveways, parking lot perimeter roads or heavily used parking access drives. The design engineer is required to demonstrate to the director how the surface design will be satisfactory for the intended use.
2.
Pervious surfaces include pervious concrete and asphalt, pervious pavers and turf block or other surface treatment approved by the director.
3.
The stormwater reductions that result from permeable pavement may be considered in any stormwater management plans.
b.
The following provisions apply to parking areas where a pervious surface treatment is applied to the area dedicated for surface parking spaces and drive aisles:
1.
Parking lot areas eligible for pervious or permeable surfaces include parking spaces and access aisles but not driveways, parking lot perimeter roads or heavily used parking access drives. The design engineer is required to demonstrate to the director how the surface design will be satisfactory for the intended use.
2.
Pervious surfaces include pervious concrete and asphalt, pervious pavers and turf block or other surface treatment approved by the director.
3.
The stormwater reductions that result from permeable pavement may be considered in any stormwater management plans.
(Ord. No. 09-02, § 8, 6-2-2009; Ord. No. 10-09, § 1(Exh. A), 11-2-2010; Ord. No. 15-09, §§ 1, 2, 3-31-2015)
Sec. 90-134. - Reserved.
Editor's note— Ord. No. 18-01 , § 1, adopted March 6, 2018, repealed § 90-134, which pertained to Savannah River corridor buffer and derived from Code 1979, § 2-16-63.
Sec. 90-135. - Signs.
(a)
Findings. The board of commissioners find that signs provide an important medium through which individuals may convey a variety of noncommercial and commercial messages. However, left completely unregulated, signs can become a threat to public safety as a traffic hazard and a detriment to property values and the county's overall public welfare, as well as an aesthetic nuisance.
(b)
Intent. By enacting the ordinance codified in this chapter, the board of commissioners intends to:
(1)
Balance the rights of individuals to convey their messages through signs and the right of the public to be protected against the unrestricted proliferation of signs;
(2)
Further the objectives of the county's comprehensive plan, which is expressly incorporated herein;
(3)
Protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens and others within the county;
(4)
Reduce traffic and pedestrian hazard;
(5)
Promote the aesthetic qualities of the county;
(6)
Protect property values by minimizing the possible adverse effects and visual blight caused by signs;
(7)
Promote economic development;
(8)
Ensure the fair and consistent enforcement of sign regulations.
(c)
Intent of sign regulations. Notwithstanding any other restrictions in this chapter, any sign authorized under this chapter can contain any commercial or noncommercial message.
(d)
Compliance. No sign shall be placed or maintained on any property, building or other structure within the county, whether zoned or unzoned, except in conformity with these sign regulations.
(e)
Violations. In case any sign, advertising device or other device covered by this chapter is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, altered, converted or used in violation of any provision of this chapter, the division director or designee may, in addition to other remedies, and after due notice to the appropriate person, issue a citation for violation of this Code requiring the presence of the violator in the municipal court, or institute injunction or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, alteration, conversion or use, or to correct or abate such violation. Without limitation, businesses, organizations, builders, developers, contractors, property owners, and such other parties responsible for the violation may be cited for violation of any provisions of this chapter.
(f)
Definitions of land use categories. Land use categories referred to in this chapter are defined herein for the purpose of regulating signs. The use in this chapter of the term "property" relative to a land use category includes both developed and undeveloped properties, while the term "use" means a property that is developed, occupied or otherwise in operation under the land use category. The land use categories are as follows:
Agricultural means a property used primarily for the cultivation of crops, dairying or the raising of livestock, or a vacant property zoned or offered for sale or lease for such purpose.
Commercial means a property occupied by one or more business establishments, contained within a roofed and walled structure built for permanent use, which establishments are primarily engaged in the sale of goods; the provision of personal, professional, business, entertainment or other commercial services; the management of a business enterprise; or the provision of temporary housing to the traveling public (such as a motel); or a vacant property zoned or offered for sale or lease for such purposes.
Industrial means a property occupied by one or more business establishments, contained within a roofed and walled structure built for permanent use, which establishments are primarily engaged in the fabrication, manufacture or production of durable or nondurable goods, or a vacant property zoned or offered for sale or lease for such purpose.
Institutional means a property occupied by a private, nonprofit religious, recreational, educational or philanthropic organization, club or semipublic institution.
Multifamily residential means a property occupied primarily by one or more residential buildings containing three or more dwelling units, or a mobile home park, or a vacant property zoned or offered for sale or lease for such purposes.
Single- and two-family residential means a property occupied primarily by one or more single-family dwellings or duplex dwellings, or a vacant property zoned or offered for sale or lease for such purpose.
(g)
Definitions related to signs. The following words and phrases have specific meanings as used in this chapter:
Abandoned sign means cessation for a period of 12 months of the use of a sign by either the owner of the sign or the occupant of the property on which the sign is placed, or through the removal or relocation of the previous occupant of the property, or a sign that has ceased to be used for a period of 12 months through the removal of its copy or the deterioration of its copy through lack of maintenance, but excluding temporary or short-term periods of remodeling, refurbishment or maintenance of the sign.
Animated sign means a sign that uses movement or changes of lighting to depict action or to create a special effect or scene.
Awning means a roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building for the purpose of shielding a doorway, or window from the elements. Awnings are often made of fabric or flexible plastic supported by a rigid frame, and may be retracted into the face of the building.
Awning sign. See building sign.
Banner means a sign made of, cloth, thin plastic, or similar lightweight material, and usually containing a message or logo.
Billboard, if a freestanding structure, means any sign larger than the maximum permitted size of a freestanding sign in the zoning district or sign overlay district where the structure is located. If the billboard is a wall sign or a sign attached to a building, such term shall mean any sign larger than the maximum permitted size for a wall sign in the zoning district or sign overlay district where the sign is located.
Building sign means a sign that in any manner is fastened to, projects from, or is placed or painted upon the exterior wall, window, door, or roof of a building. The term "building sign" includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Awning sign means a sign imposed, mounted or painted upon an awning.
(2)
Canopy sign means a sign affixed to, superimposed upon, or painted on any canopy, such that the sign is mounted in such a manner that a continuous face with the canopy is formed.
(3)
Mansard sign means a sign imposed, mounted or painted upon a mansard and not extending above the top of the mansard.
(4)
Marquee sign means any sign painted on or attached flat to the face of a marquee.
(5)
Parapet sign means a sign imposed, mounted or painted on a parapet and not extending above the top of the parapet.
(6)
Projecting sign means a sign affixed to a wall and extending more than 18 inches from the surface of such wall, usually perpendicular to the wall surface.
(7)
Roof sign means a sign projecting over the coping of a flat roof, or over the ridge of a gambrel, hip or gable roof, and supported by or attached to the roof.
(8)
Under-canopy sign means a display attached to the underside of a marquee or canopy and protruding over private sidewalks.
(9)
Wall or fascia sign means a sign that is fastened directly to or is placed or painted directly upon the exterior wall of a building, with the sign face parallel to the wall, and extending from the surface of the wall no more than 18 inches.
(10)
Window sign means a sign that is placed on or behind a windowpane or glass door and intended to be viewed from outside the building.
Canopy means a permanent roof-like structure projecting from a building and open on at least one side for the purpose of shielding a pedestrian walkway from the elements, or a freestanding roof-like structure supported by columns intended to shield a vehicular driveway or service area from the elements.
Changeable copy sign includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Automatic changeable copy sign means a sign on which the copy changes automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means (e.g., electrical or electronic time and temperature units). The term "copy" means words, numbers and/or pictorial representations.
(2)
Manual changeable copy sign means a sign on which copy is changed manually in the field (e.g., reader boards with changeable letters). Copy shall mean words and numbers.
Channeled letters (internally illuminated letters) includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Internally channeled letters means letters or other symbols with recessed surfaces designed to accommodate incandescent bulbs or luminous tubing.
(2)
Reverse channeled letters means letters or other symbols with raised surfaces designed to be lighted from behind.
Double-faced sign means a sign structure with two sign faces that are parallel (back-to-back) or that form an angle to one another of no more than 60 degrees, where each sign face is designed to be seen from a different direction.
Festoons means strings of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, pennants, streamers, pinwheels, or other devices or long narrow strips of fabric, plastic, or other pliable material designed to move in the wind.
Flashing sign means a sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing light source used primarily to attract attention. It does not include electronic signs.
Freestanding sign means a sign permanently attached to the ground and that is wholly independent of any building or other structure. The term "freestanding sign" includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Pole or pylon sign means a sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole, pylon, columns, or similar support such that the bottom of the sign face or lowest sign module is not in contact with the ground.
(2)
Monument sign means a freestanding sign in which the entire bottom of the sign face or structure is in contact with the ground, providing a solid and continuous background for the sign face from the ground to the top of the sign.
Frontage, building, means the width in linear feet of the front exterior wall of a particular establishment.
Frontage, road, means the width in linear feet of each lot where it abuts the right-of-way of any street.
Holiday means a day fixed by law or custom commemorating an event or honoring a person.
Illuminated signs includes but is not limited to the following:
(1)
Internally illuminated sign means a sign that is illuminated by an artificial light source from within the sign structure, usually projected through a transparent or translucent sign face.
(2)
Externally illuminated sign means any sign that is only illuminated by an artificial light source that directly or indirectly illuminates the face of the sign from outside the sign structure.
Incidental building sign means a small sign, emblem, or decal no larger than six square feet located on a building or structure. Such signs are normally located on doors, windows, and gas pumps, and are generally not readily visible or legible from public rights-of-way.
Internally illuminated letters. See channeled letters.
Mansard means a steeply sloped, roof-like facade architecturally similar to a building wall.
Mansard sign. See building sign.
Marquee means a permanent roof-like structure or canopy of rigid materials supported by and extending from the façade of a building.
Marquee sign. See building sign.
Minimum front setback means the minimum distance required by the zoning on a property between an adjoining street and the facade of a principal building on the property.
Monument sign. See freestanding sign.
Multi-faced sign means a single sign structure consisting of two sign faces (see double-faced sign) or three or more sign faces that are separated from each other at their nearest point by no more than three feet. Sign faces on a single sign structure that are separated by more than three feet are treated as separate signs.
Pennant means any lightweight plastic, fabric or similar material designed to move in the wind; pennants are often suspended from a rope, wire, or string in series. The term "pennant" shall not include a banner as defined in this chapter.
Planned center means a building or group of buildings occupied by two or more retail stores, service establishments, offices, industries or any other businesses that do not share common space, which is located on a property that is in common ownership or condominium ownership. Buildings that are occupied by two or more businesses that share common space, such as but not limited to a branch bank in a grocery store, a fast-food restaurant in a merchandise store, or booths in a flea market, are not considered planned centers.
Pole or pylon sign. See freestanding sign.
Portable sign means a sign designed to be transported or easily relocated and not permanently attached to the ground, such as but not limited to the following:
(1)
A sign designed to be temporarily placed upon the ground and not otherwise permanently affixed to it as otherwise required by the building code;
(2)
A sign mounted on a trailer, with or without wheels; or
(3)
A sidewalk, sandwich board or curb-type sign.
Principal building sign means the main, predominant or largest sign on an individual wall of a building or tenant space.
Principal freestanding sign means the main, predominant or largest freestanding sign on a property.
Project entrance sign means a permanent freestanding sign located at a discernible entrance into a multi-family development, or into a development containing multiple lots, such as but not limited to a particular residential or commercial subdivision, business center, office park or industrial park.
Projecting sign. See building sign.
Roof sign. See building sign.
Sidewalk or sandwich sign means a moveable sign not permanently secured or attached to the ground or surface upon which it is located.
Sign means any structure, display, or device that is used to advertise, identify, direct, or attract attention to a business, institution, organization, person, idea, product, service, event, or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, design characteristics, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, movement, or illumination.
Sign face means that portion of the surface of a sign structure where words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements are or may be located in order to convey the message, idea, or intent for which the sign has been erected or placed. The sign face may be composed of two or more modules on the same surface that are separated or surrounded by open space or by portions of a sign structure not intended to contain any advertising message or idea, and are purely structural or decorative in nature.
Sign module means each portion or unit of a sign face that is clearly and physically separable from other such units by virtue of the expression of a complete thought, message, logo, or idea.
Sign structure means all elements of a freestanding sign, including the sign face, background, or decorative elements related to the presentation or support of the sign's message, and the structural supports.
Swinging or projecting sign means a sign projecting perpendicularly from the outside wall of the building upon which it is located. See projecting sign under building sign.
Tenant means a natural person, business or other entity that occupies land or buildings by ownership, under a lease, or through payment of rent; an occupant, inhabitant, or dweller of a place.
Under-canopy sign. See building sign.
Vehicular sign means any sign placed on, mounted on, painted on or affixed to a motor vehicle, freight, flatbed or storage trailer or other conveyance when same are placed or parked in such a manner as to be viewed or intended to be viewed from the public right-of-way, except that this definition shall not apply when:
(1)
Such conveyances are actively being used to load, transport or unload persons, goods or services in the normal course of business;
(2)
Such conveyances are parked in an inconspicuous area, such as but not limited to a loading dock, to the side or rear of a building away from the street, or in a designated parking space in reasonable proximity to the place of business; or
(3)
Such conveyances are actively being used for storage of construction materials for, and on the same lot with, a bona fide construction project for which building and other applicable permits have been issued and where construction is underway, and provided said conveyances are located within designated storage areas.
Wall sign. See building sign.
(h)
Computation of sign area. In order to determine compliance with the maximum allowable sign areas permitted under this chapter, the following shall establish how sign areas are measured.
(1)
Sign face area.
a.
The area of a sign face shall be computed as the area within the smallest rectangle enclosing the limits of a sign face, or the combination of the areas of all such rectangles delimiting each sign module, together with any frame or material, texture, or color forming an integral part of the sign face or used to differentiate the sign face from the structure upon which it is placed.
b.
For signs that have no identifiable frame or border, the smallest rectangle that includes all of the sign's words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements intended to convey the sign's message shall establish the area of the sign's face.
c.
For signs applied to a kiosk or other cylindrical sign structure, the area of the sign face shall be computed as the largest rectangular area achieved from any one view of the sign. Measurements shall be made as a flat plane rectangle projected on the sign.
d.
The computation of the area of a sign face shall not include the structure, supports, or uprights on which the sign face is placed or any portions of a sign structure that are not intended to contain any message or idea and are purely structural or decorative in nature, other than those portions contained within the rectangle that delimits the sign face or a sign module.
e.
Automatic or manual changeable copy signs. For any sign on which any of the words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements are routinely changed or are intended to be changed from time to time, the sign face area shall include the entire area within which any words, letters, figures, symbols, logos, fixtures, colors, or other design elements may be placed, together with any frame or material, texture, or color forming an integral part of the sign face or used to differentiate the sign face from the structure upon which it is placed.
(2)
Treatment of open spaces. Any open space contained within the limits of the rectangle delimiting the sign face, sign module, or sign structure shall be included in the computation of the area of such sign face, sign module, or sign structure. For window signs, open spaces or clear backgrounds designed to allow an unobstructed view into a place of business shall not be counted toward the maximum allowable sign face area.
(3)
Multi-faced signs.
a.
Double-faced signs. For double-faced signs, when the sign face surfaces are parallel (back-to-back), or where the smallest angle formed between the two faces is 60 degrees or less, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area on the largest side. For double-faced signs where the interior angle formed by the faces is more than 60 degrees, the area of the sign shall be the total area of all sides.
b.
Signs with three or more faces. For sign structures having only three faces and the interior angle formed between each of the faces is 60 degrees, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area on the largest side. For all other multi-faced signs with three or more sides, the area of the sign shall be the largest total of all faces that are joined by an interior angle of more than 60 degrees that can be viewed from any one direction.
(i)
Measurement of sign height and distance.
(1)
Sign height. The height of a sign shall be equal to the vertical distance from the average grade at the base of the sign, or from the crown of the roadway of the nearest street if the street is within 100 feet of any portion of the sign (when measured perpendicular to the street), to the highest point of any portion of the sign, whichever results in the greater sign height. Any earthen berms and elevated foundations supporting signs, signposts or other sign supports shall be included in the height of the sign.
(2)
Measurement of distance. Minimum distances required hereunder shall be measured along the shortest straight line from the nearest point on a sign structure to the nearest point on a property line, sign structure, building or structure to which the minimum distance requirement applies.
(j)
Signs that are regulated.
(1)
Applicability. The regulations and requirements of this chapter apply to all signs that are or are intended to be viewed from a public right-of-way, a private street or adjacent property, except as otherwise exempt under this section.
(2)
Exclusions. The following are not considered signs and are excluded from all restrictions and regulations imposed by this chapter:
a.
Window displays not visible from a public or private street or from adjoining property are not considered to be signs and are exempt from these sign regulations.
b.
Words and/or graphics on products that are an integral part of the product, the product's original packaging, and product dispensers (such as but not limited to a soft drink machine) are not considered to be signs and are exempt from these sign regulations. Product containers intended for the storage of products are not exempt from these regulations.
c.
A building design, color, architectural element or motif that is associated with a particular establishment or organization but which conveys no message is not considered to be a sign and is exempt from these sign regulations.
(3)
Exemptions. Each of the following types of signs is allowed on any property and is exempt from the restrictions imposed by this chapter:
a.
Official signs. Signs placed by or at the direction of a governmental body, governmental agency, board of education or public authority pursuant to O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 et seq. As provided by O.C.G.A. § 32-6-51, such signs are authorized within all rights-of-way or other properties controlled by such governmental body, agency, board of education or public authority and at such other locations as a governmental body, governmental agency or public authority may direct.
b.
Incidental signs. Small signs no more than six square feet, provided that the aggregate of all such signs on a property may not exceed 16 square feet unless a larger aggregate area is required by law or government regulation.
(k)
Prohibited signs. Unless otherwise exempt under Section 90-135(j)(3), the following types of signs are prohibited:
(1)
Animated and flashing signs.
a.
Signs (excluding automatic changeable copy signs) that flash, blink, and signs containing reflective elements that sparkle in the sunlight or otherwise simulate illumination during daylight hours are not allowed.
b.
For automatic changeable copy signs, see subsection (u)(3).
(2)
Attached and painted signs. Signs that are painted on or attached to trees, curbs, utility poles, or rocks or other natural features are not allowed.
(3)
Courtesy benches, trash cans, etc.. Courtesy benches, trash cans, and similar devices on which a sign is displayed are not allowed.
(4)
Dilapidated signs. Signs that are dilapidated or in such condition as to create a hazard, nuisance or to be unsafe or fail to comply with any provision of the building code, are not allowed.
(5)
Festoons. Strings of ribbons, tinsel, small flags, pennants, streamers, pinwheels, balloons or other devices, or long narrow strips of fabric, plastic, or other pliable material designed to move in the wind or by mechanical fan are not allowed.
(6)
Misleading statements. It is unlawful for a person to display false or misleading statements upon signs or other public places calculated to mislead the public as to anything sold, services to be performed, or information disseminated. The fact that any such sign or display contains words or language sufficient to mislead a reasonable or prudent person shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section by the persons displaying such sign or permitting such sign to be displayed at their residence, establishment or place of business.
(7)
Obscene signs. Obscene signs, as defined by the state at O.C.G.A. § 16-12-80(b), are not allowed.
(8)
Obstructions. No sign shall obstruct any fire escape, window, door, or opening usable for fire prevention or suppression, or prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof. No sign shall extend above a parapet wall, be affixed to a fire escape, or interfere with any opening required for ventilation.
(9)
Pole or pylon signs. Signs meeting the definition of pole or pylon as defined in this chapter are not allowed as principal freestanding signs, unless specifically allowed by subsection (v)(2).
(10)
Portable signs. A sign designed to be transported or easily relocated and not permanently attached to the ground, such as but not limited to the following, is not allowed:
a.
A sign designed to be temporarily placed upon the ground and not otherwise permanently affixed to it as otherwise required by the building code;
b.
A sign mounted on a trailer, with or without wheels.
(11)
Private signs placed on public property. Any sign posted or erected on utility poles, public rights-of-way or any other public property as regulated by O.C.G.A. § 16-7-58 et seq. is not allowed, except as required or authorized by O.C.G.A. § 32-6-50 or any other law.
(12)
Roof signs. Roof signs, including signs painted or adhered on roofs, are not allowed. This prohibition does not apply to the fascia portion of a mansard roof, or to the face of a parapet wall, provided that the sign must not extend above the top of the mansard roof or parapet wall.
(13)
Rope lighting. LED or otherwise illuminated rope lighting used to outline windows, doors, or building features is prohibited.
(14)
Searchlights and similar devices. Searchlights and similar devices are not allowed.
(15)
Signs advertising illegal activity. Signs that advertise an activity illegal under state or federal law are not allowed.
(16)
Signs imitating public warning or traffic devices.
a.
Any sign that displays intermittent lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles, and any sign that uses the words "stop," "go," "slow," "caution," "danger," "warning" or other message or content in a manner that might mislead or confuse a driver, is not allowed.
b.
Any sign that uses the words, slogans, dimensional shape or size, or colors of governmental traffic signs is not allowed.
c.
No red, green, and yellow illuminated sign shall be permitted within 300 feet of any traffic light.
(17)
Sound or smoke emitting signs. A sign that emits or utilizes in any manner any sound capable of being detected on any traveled road or highway by a person with normal hearing, or a sign that emits smoke, vapor or odors, is not allowed.
(18)
Vehicular signs. Any sign that meets the definition of a vehicular sign as defined in this chapter is prohibited.
(l)
Business license and insurance for sign contractors required. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of erecting or maintaining signs within the county unless and until such person has obtained a business license issued in the state and a certificate of insurance from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state evidencing that the person has in effect public liability and property damage insurance providing coverage in the sum of $25,000.00 for property damage for any one claim and public liability insurance in an amount not less than $100,000.00 for injuries, including accidental death, to one person. The certificate of insurance shall state that the insurance carrier will notify the county 30 days in advance of any termination or restriction of the coverage.
(m)
Enforcement. The division director or designee is responsible for general administration of this chapter; the receipt, review and processing of all applications for sign permits; and all sign variance requests filed with the county.
(n)
Removal of illegal or abandoned signs.
(1)
Removal order. The division director or designee may order the removal of any sign in violation of this chapter, or any sign abandoned for 12 consecutive months or more, by written notice to the permit holder; or if there is no permit holder, then to the owner of the property on which the sign is erected; or if the property owner cannot be found or cannot be determined, then to the sign erector and any party that procured the erection of the sign. If a permit was issued, such notice shall operate to revoke the permit. The removal order shall be issued only after the appropriate party fails to comply within seven days after the county gives written notice of noncompliance.
a.
Exception; vehicular signs. The division director or designee may order the removal of any vehicular sign in violation of this chapter after the appropriate party fails to comply within 24 hours after the county gives written notice of noncompliance.
(2)
Procedure following removal order. An aggrieved party may appeal the removal order within ten days from the date that the notice was mailed. Such appeal shall be made to the board of commissioners. If the sign is not removed within 30 days after the order of removal (or 30 days after the date any appeal becomes final), the division director or designee is authorized to remove the sign or cause the sign to be removed the sign and to collect the costs thereof as provided below.
(3)
Removal without notice.
a.
The division director or designee or any other agent of the county having jurisdiction under the circumstances may remove or direct the removal of any sign in violation of this chapter, without giving notice to any party, if:
1.
Said sign is illegally placed upon the public right-of-way or upon other public property; or
2.
Said sign poses an immediate safety threat to the life or health of any members of the public.
b.
Following such removal, the county may collect the costs as provided in subsection (4) of this section.
(4)
Costs of removal.
a.
Removal of any sign found in violation shall be without liability to the county, its officers, agents, and employees. The permit holder shall be primarily responsible for the costs of removal. If there is no permit holder, then the property owner shall be responsible. If the sign owner cannot be determined, then the costs of removal shall be the responsibility of any party that procured the erection of the sign.
b.
If payment or arrangement to make payment is not made within 60 days after the receipt of a statement of removal costs, the division director or designee shall certify the amount thereof for collection to the county attorney.
c.
Costs of removal shall be charged in accordance with a fee schedule established by the county or at the actual cost to the county, whichever is more appropriate to the action taken.
(o)
Sign permits.
(1)
When required. In addition to a building permit as may be required under the building code, a sign permit shall be obtained from the division director or designee prior to installation, relocation, expansion, construction or structural alteration of any sign regulated under this chapter except for those signs specifically exempted under subsection (2) of this section.
(2)
Exemptions.
a.
A sign permit will not be required under the following conditions:
1.
Painting, repairing, cleaning, or maintaining a sign shall not require a sign permit unless a structural change is made.
b.
A sign permit will not be required for the following listed signs, provided that such signs meet the requirements of this chapter:
1.
A sign that is otherwise exempt from regulation under subsection (j)(3) does not require a sign permit.
2.
A freestanding sign on a single-family or two-family residential property and no larger than six square feet does not require a sign permit.
3.
Miscellaneous freestanding signs that are allowed under subsection (w)(2) and (w)(3) do not require a sign permit.
(p)
Issuance of a sign permit.
(1)
Review required. For any sign requiring issuance of a sign permit under the provisions of this chapter, review of a completed application shall be required prior to installation, relocation, renovation, expansion, construction or reconstruction of the sign. The sign application, with the nonrefundable application fee established by the county, shall be submitted to the division director or designee.
(2)
Sign permit application. Applications for sign permits shall be filed by the sign owner or his agent in the office of the division director or designee upon forms furnished by this office. The application shall describe and set forth the following:
a.
The type of the sign as defined in this chapter.
b.
The value of the sign.
c.
The street address of the property upon which the subject sign is to be located, and the proposed location of the subject sign on the subject property. In the absence of a street address, a method of location acceptable to the division director or designee shall be used.
d.
The square foot area of the sign face and the sign structure, and the aggregate square foot area if there is more than one sign face.
e.
The name and address of the owner of the real property upon which the subject sign is to be located.
f.
The written consent of the owner or his agent granting permission for the placement or maintenance of the subject sign.
g.
A sketch or print drawn to scale showing all pertinent information required by the division director or designee, such as wind pressure requirements and display materials. The division director or designee may require additional information on such print or sketch to ensure compliance with this chapter.
h.
The name, address, telephone number and business license number of the sign contractor.
i.
A site plan drawn to scale or elevation drawing showing the placement of the sign, including its relation to any existing or proposed landscaping. To the greatest practical extent, signs shall be located in a manner that reduces conflicts with existing or proposed landscaping.
j.
Plans for a planned center or mixed use development signage in accordance with the master signage plan requirements of subsection (q).
(3)
Conformance to building codes.
a.
Plans required for issuance of a sign permit shall be certified as to conformance with all structural and wind-load resistive standards of the building code by a qualified structural engineer, or be prepared using standard drawings prepared by a structural engineer or other qualified professional meeting, or exceeding all requirements of the building code, if applicable.
b.
All signs involving internal lights or other electrical devices or circuits shall display a label certifying it as being approved by the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.
c.
All electrical service to a sign shall be in compliance with the electrical code. A licensed electrical contractor must obtain an electrical permit and wire the sign to code.
d.
Clearance from all electrical power lines shall be in conformance with the requirements of the electrical code.
(4)
Issuance of sign permit.
a.
The county shall process all sign permit applications within 30 days of the county's actual receipt of a complete application for a sign permit. Revisions or amendments to an application shall extend the review period to 30 days from the date of submission of the revision or amendment. Revisions or amendments received after the issuance of a permit shall constitute a new application.
1.
The division director or designee shall reject any application as incomplete that does not include all items required for a sign permit application as set forth under subsection (b) of this section.
2.
The division director or designee shall reject any application containing any false material statements or omissions. Any rejected application later resubmitted shall be deemed to have been submitted on the date of resubmission instead of the original date of submission.
b.
Within 30 days of receipt of a complete application, the division director or designee shall:
1.
Issue the permit; or
2.
Inform the applicant of the reasons why the permit cannot be issued.
c.
Upon determination that the application fully complies with the provisions of this chapter, the building code, and all other applicable laws, regulations and chapters of the county, the sign permit shall be issued by the division director or designee.
d.
Should it be determined that a sign permit was issued pursuant to an application containing a false material statement, the division director or designee shall revoke the subject sign permit and the subject sign shall be removed. A revocation pursuant to this section shall be appealable pursuant to the appeal procedures of this chapter.
(5)
Permit fee; registration of existing signs.
a.
No sign permit shall be issued until the appropriate application has been filed with the division director or designee and fees have been paid as provided in this subsection. The fee for such permits shall be based on the square footage of each sign face. If a sign has more than one face, the square footage for purposes of determining the permit fee shall be computed from the sign face with the greatest square footage. The permit fee shall be fixed from time to time by the board of commissioners.
(q)
Master signage plans.
(1)
Approval required. Signage for a planned center or a mixed use development, whether new or existing, may be established by approval of a master signage plan in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2)
Master signage plan approval.
a.
Master signage plans must be approved by the board of commissioners pursuant to section 90-180 prior to the issuance of any sign permits for the planned center or mixed use development.
b.
An application for master signage plan approval shall be submitted to the planning services director or designee.
(3)
Master signage plan standards. Standards as to type, number, size, height, location, orientation or other design provisions established in addition to or in lieu of the restrictions placed on signs by this chapter are to be incorporated into the master signage plan.
a.
Master signage plans shall illustrate all proposed signs in sufficient detail so as to provide knowledgeable review and design specificity. Master signage plans shall show, describe or illustrate all signs proposed to be located on a lot and the buildings and structures therein, whether existing or new, and whether permitted by right or as additional signage under these regulations.
b.
Signs that are otherwise exempt under this chapter need not be shown on the master signage plan.
c.
Upon approval, the master signage plan shall supersede any conflicting restrictions and regulations of this chapter for the property to which it pertains.
(r)
Nonconforming signs.
(1)
Defined.
a.
A nonconforming sign is a sign that does not comply with one or more of the regulations or restrictions imposed by this chapter.
b.
A legal nonconforming sign is a freestanding sign or building sign that was lawfully erected and maintained prior to the adoption or amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and which by reason of such adoption or amendment no longer conforms to one or more of the applicable regulations and restrictions of this chapter as adopted or amended.
c.
Any sign that was not lawfully erected in accordance with the sign regulations in effect at the time of the sign's construction, or was subsequently altered in a way inconsistent with the sign regulations in effect at the time of its alteration, is considered an illegal sign and shall not be granted legal nonconformity status. Illegal signs are subject to removal.
(2)
Removal of nonconforming signs or abandoned signs. When a business or service is discontinued, all nonconforming signs relating to the business or service, including all nonconforming principal freestanding signs and sign structures and all nonconforming building signs, shall be removed after 12 months from the date of discontinuance.
(3)
Retention of legal nonconformity status.
a.
A legal nonconforming sign shall immediately lose its legal nonconforming designation and become an illegal sign if:
1.
The sign is altered in any way that would make the sign less in compliance with the requirements of this chapter than it was before the alteration;
2.
The sign is relocated on the property;
3.
The sign structure is replaced;
4.
The sign is abandoned for at least 12 months;
5.
The deterioration of the sign or damage for any reason to the sign makes it a hazard to public safety; or
6.
The sign has been damaged to such extent that repairs required to restore the sign would cost more than 50 percent of its current replacement value.
b.
On the occurrence of any of the foregoing, the sign shall be immediately brought into compliance with all requirements of this chapter or the sign shall be removed immediately.
(4)
Removal of abandoned signs. Signs that have been abandoned, as defined in this chapter, for 12 consecutive months or more shall be removed thereupon by the owner of the property on which they are located.
(5)
DOT action requiring removal of nonconforming sign.
a.
Where, as a result of design or other requirements imposed by the state department of transportation (DOT), a legal nonconforming sign, as defined herein, must be removed, such sign may be relocated on the same property upon the approval of the planning services director or designee. Such approval shall be granted upon the sign owner providing the planning services director or designee with written documentation of the actions of the DOT resulting in the required removal of the sign.
b.
In the event relocating the nonconforming sign would cause it to be less structurally sound than before its relocation, as determined by the planning services director or designee based on evidence provided by the sign owner consisting of certification provided by a qualified professional engineer registered in the state, the sign owner may construct a new sign on the property. A new sign constructed under this provision shall be substantially similar to the original nonconforming sign.
c.
Any sign relocated or constructed under this section shall be subject to all other requirements of this chapter and any other applicable ordinances of the county.
(s)
Appeals. If an applicant for a sign permit has been denied a permit by the director, the applicant may appeal this decision by filing a written request with the planning commission in accordance with the provisions of section 90-179.
(t)
General requirements applying to all signs.
(1)
Conformance to state law. Every sign erected in the county must comply with state law and the terms of this chapter and any other ordinance of the county. Between the state and the county regulations, such sign must comply with the most restrictive requirements with respect to each and every item of regulation.
(2)
Sign maintenance.
a.
All signs shall be maintained in good condition so as to present a neat and orderly appearance. The planning services director or designee may cause any sign to be removed, after due notice, if the sign shows gross neglect or becomes dilapidated, or if the ground area around the sign is not well maintained.
b.
The planning services director or designee will give the owner 14 days' written notice to correct the deficiencies or to remove the sign. If the owner refuses to correct the deficiencies or remove the sign, the division director or designee shall have the sign removed at the expense of the owner.
(3)
Minimum sign setback.
a.
No sign or sign structure of any kind is authorized to extend into or above, or be anchored or placed in any portion of a public right-of-way or easement (without an encroachment agreement) except as specifically provided in this chapter.
b.
No sign or sign structure of any kind shall be located less than ten feet from a side or rear property line.
3.
The minimum setback from a street right-of-way shall be as specified in subsection (v).
(4)
Visibility clearance area. Any portion of a sign located within 25 feet of the intersection of the right-of-way lines of streets or within 20 feet of the intersection of the edge of a driveway and the right-of-way line of a street shall be no more than 36 inches in height, nor shall such sign otherwise obstruct visibility or pose a threat to traffic safety.
(5)
Illuminated signs.
a.
Types of illumination.
1.
Externally illuminated sign. An externally illuminated sign, when permitted, shall have concealed wiring and controls, and shall have shielded and screened external light sources.
2.
Internally illuminated sign. Internally illuminated signs, where permitted, must completely shield the source of light from direct view.
b.
Traffic control. No sign illumination device shall resemble an official traffic control or warning sign, nor shall it hide from view or distract from any traffic or street sign or signal.
c.
Hazards. Illumination devices shall be placed, filtered, and shielded so direct rays will not be cast into the eyes of drivers or pedestrians.
d.
Light pollution. Sign illumination shall not cast light directly upon adjacent properties or roadways. No illuminated signs are allowed within 100 feet of any residential zoning district or property occupied by a dwelling.
e.
Exposed wires. No sign may have exposed electrical wires.
f.
Hours of illumination. No sign shall be illuminated between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except for those hours during which the premises on which the sign is located is open for business or events are taking place on the premises.
g.
UL listing. All components of an illuminated sign shall be underwriters laboratories (UL) listed, or the equivalent thereof, with an identification label that shows the manufacturer of the sign.
(u)
Signs allowed, by land use category.
(1)
Residential land uses. The following types of signs are allowed on residential properties:
a.
Project entrance signs in accordance with section (w)(4). Such signs may be externally illuminated only (see section 90-135(g).
b.
Other freestanding signage.
1.
Only one per frontage per property shall be located within the minimum front yard setback as determined by the zoning district applied to the property.
2.
No such sign shall be more than six square feet in area and three feet in height when located on a lot within a developed residential subdivision.
3.
Such signs shall not be illuminated.
c.
Wall signs.
1.
No wall signs are allowed on a single-family or two-family residence or accessory structure.
2.
Wall signs on a multifamily residential building: one wall sign per wall no more than 16 square feet in area.
(2)
Nonresidential and mixed land uses. The following types of signs are allowed on nonresidential, institutional or mixed use properties in the county:
a.
Principal signage.
1.
Properties occupied by a single business or multiple businesses sharing common space (i.e., not a planned center). One principal freestanding sign on each street frontage and one principal building sign per building elevation visible from a public or private street.
2.
Planned centers. One principal freestanding sign on each street frontage and one principal building sign for each business with an exterior wall visible from a public or private street.
3.
Size increase. Single businesses or planned centers with multiple frontages may be allowed a 25 percent increase over the allowed sign face area and height if only one sign is constructed.
4.
Undeveloped properties. One principal freestanding sign on each street frontage.
b.
Permanent project entrance signs for a residential subdivision or mixed use development, with a maximum area of 32 square feet and maximum height of eight feet. Such signs may not be internally illuminated.
(3)
Automatic changeable copy signs. Automatic changeable copy signs are allowed only on commercial, industrial, and institutional properties, and only allowed as part of a principal freestanding sign, except that such signs that display a message for less than two seconds are prohibited.
(4)
Rear entrance signs.
a.
One rear entrance sign is required for each tenant within a planned center.
b.
Rear entrance signs shall be located on the tenant's rear door and shall list the tenant and suite number.
c.
The area of rear entrance signs shall not exceed three square feet; however, the sign may not be less than 18 inches wide and 12 inches high and shall be clearly legible for public safety personnel.
(v)
Size, height and setback requirements.
(1)
Building signs, nonresidential uses. Building signs are subject to the following restrictions:
a.
The maximum sign area allowed on each building elevation visible from a public or private street shall be in accordance with the table in subsection (v)(3).
b.
A building sign may not project higher than the wall or surface to which it is attached.
c.
A building sign may not project more than 18 inches from the wall surface unless approved as a swinging or projecting sign as defined by subsection (g).
d.
Projecting signs.
1.
Projecting signs, if allowed by the division director or designee, shall not project more than 42 inches beyond the face of the building, nor exceed 16 square feet in area.
2.
Projections shall be at a 90-degree angle to the building face.
3.
All sides of a projecting sign shall be finished.
e.
Miscellaneous building signs as allowed under section (w)(3).
f.
Building signs may be internally or externally illuminated.
g.
Ground clearance under signs.
1.
Projecting signs shall provide a minimum of eight feet of clearance from ground level to the bottom of the sign.
2.
Under-canopy signs of greater than four square feet shall be rigidly mounted, and there shall be eight feet of clearance below the base of any rigidly mounted under-canopy sign. There shall be a minimum clearance of seven feet below the base of any non-rigidly mounted under-canopy sign.
3.
Awning, mansard and marquee signs shall be no less than eight feet above the ground when erected over pedestrian walkways at the lowest extremity of the sign.
(2)
Principal freestanding signs, nonresidential uses. Principal freestanding for commercial, institutional or industrial uses are subject to the following restrictions:
a.
Maximum sign face area and height shall be in accordance with subsection (v)(3).
b.
Minimum setback is 13 feet from the curb or five feet behind the right-of-way, whichever is greater. See subsection (t)(4) regarding the visibility clearance area. No more than one principal freestanding sign may be located within the minimum front yard as specified by the zoning district applied to the property.
c.
The principal freestanding sign authorized by such street frontage shall be located in accordance with subsection (t)(4).
d.
Principal freestanding signs shall be separated from other principal freestanding signs as follows:
1.
Signs 48 square feet in area or less. Each principal freestanding sign having an area of 48 square feet or less shall be located at least 50 feet from any other principal freestanding sign on the same side of the street. The division director or designee may reduce this distance if it cannot be met due to the location of existing signs on separate but adjoining lots. Such reduction shall be the minimum required in order to maintain the greatest separation possible from such existing signs.
2.
Signs between 48 and 99 square feet in area. Each principal freestanding sign having an area of between 48 and 99 square feet shall be located at least 100 feet from any other principal freestanding sign on the same side of the street. The division director or designee may reduce this distance if it cannot be met due to the location of existing signs on separate but adjoining lots. Such reduction shall be the minimum required in order to maintain the greatest separation possible from such existing signs.
3.
Signs greater than 99 square feet in area. Each principal freestanding sign having an area greater than 99 square feet shall be located at least 1,000 feet from any other principal freestanding sign having an area greater than 99 square feet, and at least 100 feet from any other principal freestanding sign on the same side of the street. Distance measurements are to be made horizontally in all directions from the nearest edge of the sign structure.
e.
Principal freestanding signs located within 100 feet of a public right-of-way shall display the street address of the property. Within a planned center where multiple addresses exist, the highest and lowest street address numbers shall be identified. This section does not apply to any principal freestanding sign where the sign is located on property that has more than one street frontage and the property address is assigned from a street other than the street frontage whereupon such sign is erected. Street numbers shall be of contrasting colors against the background, visible from both directions of travel along the street, no less than six inches or more than nine inches in height.
f.
Miscellaneous freestanding signs as allowed under subsection (u).
g.
Principal freestanding signs may be internally or externally illuminated.
h.
Monument signs are preferred. Pylon signs shall be allowed, provided that the pylon is no smaller than 36 inches wide. Pylon materials shall coordinate with those of the primary structure(s) on the site.
(3)
Table of Maximum Size and Height Requirements.
EXPAND
Sign Type, Location Gross Building or Tenant Space Sign Face Area and Height Allowed
Principal freestanding sign, single establishment on nonresidential property or undeveloped nonresidential property 0—10,000 sq. ft.
10,001—50,000
50,001—100,000
100,000+ 60 sq. ft.
93 sq. ft.
125 sq. ft.
180 sq. ft. 12 feet
12 feet
15 feet
15 feet
Principal freestanding sign, planned multi-tenant office, commercial or industrial center 0—10,000 sq. ft.
10,001—50,000
50,001—100,000
100,000+ 100 sq. ft.
125 sq. ft.
150 sq. ft.
200 sq. ft. 18 feet
18 feet
20 feet
20 feet
Building signs, single establishment on nonresidential property 1—2,500
2,501—15,000
15,001—50,000
50,000+ 60 sq. ft.
80 sq. ft.
125 sq. ft.
200 sq. ft. N/A
Building signs, tenants within planned office, commercial or industrial center 1—2,500
2,501—15,000
15,001—50,000
50,000+ 60 sq. ft.
80 sq. ft.
100 sq. ft.
200 sq. ft. N/A
Interstate Signs 0—50,000 sq. ft.
50,000 + 150 sq. ft.
200 sq. ft. 100 feet
110 feet
  (4)
Signs in planned centers. Signs in planned (i.e., multitenant) centers must adhere to the minimum requirements of this article or uniform guidelines established by master signage plans. Master signage plans are to be filed with the division director or designee and approved by the board of commissioners prior to issuance of a sign permit.
(5)
Canopy signs. Canopy signs are restricted to one canopy sign, not to exceed 12 square feet per side facing public or private road.
(6)
Double frontage and corner lots. Where any lot, parcel, or tract of land exists and has frontage on two or more streets, only one principal freestanding sign per road frontage shall be allowed. Each such sign shall conform to the requirements of section 111-73(b) individually.
(7)
Window signs. Window signs, as defined by this section, placed on, inside, or outside of the window may obstruct no more than 50 percent of the window area. Window signs shall not obstruct a clear line of sight into the place of business.
(8)
Signs along arterial roadways. Signs for nonresidential uses on parcels with frontage on roadways classified as arterials shall be granted size and height increases not to exceed 25 percent over the maximum sizes and heights allowed in subsection (v)(3). Size and height increases will be allowed on the following roads:
EXPAND
Appling Harlem Road Furys Ferry Road
Baston Road Horizon South Parkway
N. Belair Road Jimmie Dyess Parkway
S. Belair Road Lewiston Road
Bobby Jones Expressway River Watch Parkway
Columbia Road Washington Road
Davis Road William Few Parkway
Flowing Wells Road Wrightsboro Road
Gateway Boulevard
  (9)
Interstate signs. Maximum sign face area and height of freestanding signs on non-residential parcels within 660 feet of the right-of-way of any interstate highway shall be allowed in accordance with subsection (v)(3).
(w)
Other signs allowed.
(1)
Billboard signs.
a.
Billboard signs shall be erected or placed in conformity with the side, front and rear setback requirements for permanent structures for the district in which the sign is located.
b.
No billboard sign shall be erected which contains a sign face that exceeds 750 square feet in area, or which is more than 60 feet in height above ground level, or 55 feet in length. The bottom coping of a billboard sign shall be at least three feet above ground or street level.
c.
The erection, construction or maintenance of billboard signs shall be limited to properties adjacent to either side of the right-of-way of roads designated as part of the state road system, excluding roads which are temporarily designated as part of the state road system, which properties are located in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zoning districts; provided, however, that no billboards shall be constructed or maintained in the ETCOD (Evans Town Center Overlay District), and no billboard shall be constructed or maintained in any location which is more than 500 feet from an operating commercial or industrial building.
d.
Billboard signs erected adjacent to interstate highways shall not be located closer than to 500 feet to another billboard sign. No more than two billboard signs are allowed per quadrant of any interchange adjacent to an interstate highway. These signs shall be restricted to an area of 1,200 feet long in each quadrant beginning 550 feet from the road that crosses the interstate highway or 500 feet beyond the point where the pavement begins to widen on the main travelway of the interstate highway to accommodate an exit or entrance ramp, whichever is farther from the interchange. All billboard signs must comply with state regulations.
e.
Billboard signs erected adjacent to roads other than interstate highways shall not be located closer to another billboard sign on the same side of the road than 1,000 feet; nor shall such a billboard sign be located within 500 feet, as measured in any direction, of any other billboard sign.
f.
No portion of a billboard sign shall be located within 300 feet in any direction of a zoning district other than in the C-2, C-3, M-1 or M-2 zoning districts.
g.
No billboard sign shall be attached to a wall, building or rooftop.
h.
Billboard signs shall not advertise tobacco, distilled spirits, beer, wine or any other product that a minor cannot legally use, within 1,000 feet of public or private schools, or within 500 feet of a place of worship, a publicly owned recreation center or a publicly owned park designed for use by minors.
(2)
Miscellaneous freestanding signs. Freestanding signs in addition to those allowed under section 90-135(u) are allowed as accessory uses on a property occupied by any multifamily, commercial, institutional, or industrial use if each sign complies with all of the following:
a.
Within the area between a street and the minimum front yard setback for principal buildings required for the zoning district, additional signs may be located within three feet of driveways that provide access into or from the property. There shall be no more than two such signs per driveway and each such sign shall not exceed three square feet in sign area, nor be more than three feet in height. Signs shall be located at least 12 feet from the curb or two feet behind the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
(3)
Miscellaneous building signs. Miscellaneous building signs are allowed in addition to the principal building signs allowed under section 90-135(u). Miscellaneous building signs shall not exceed the following:
a.
For single-occupant buildings, the maximum allowed area for a miscellaneous building sign shall be 0.25 square feet of sign face area per linear foot of the length of the wall on which the sign is affixed, or the applicable total aggregate in the table following subsection (v)(3), whichever is smaller.
b.
For planned centers, the maximum allowed area for a miscellaneous building sign for each business or tenant shall be 0.25 square feet of sign face area per linear foot of the tenant frontage (as defined in this chapter), or the applicable total aggregate in the table following subsection (v)(3), whichever is smaller.
(4)
Project entrance signs.
a.
Project entrance signs are signs located at an entrance into a residential subdivision, into a multifamily development, or into a mixed use development. Each project entrance shall have no more than one such sign per entrance if double-faced or two signs if attached to symmetrical entrance structures.
1.
Minimum setback is 12 feet from the curb or two feet behind the right-of-way, whichever is greater.
2.
The maximum sign face area is 32 square feet per sign face.
(5)
Temporary signs.
a.
Time period.
1.
Temporary signs allowed under this section may be displayed for a maximum of 30 days per calendar year.
2.
Inflatable signs, as defined by this section, may be displayed for a maximum of 12 days per calendar year.
3.
One banner of not more than 16 square feet of sign area and five feet in height may be located at the entrance into a residential subdivision, into a multifamily development, or into a mixed use development.
b.
Size limitations.
1.
One freestanding sign may be permitted per road frontage with a sign face of no more than 32 square feet.
2.
One temporary building sign may be permitted per business and may be no larger than five percent of the building frontage.
c.
Sign identification labels.
1.
With each sign permit, the division director or designee shall issue a sticker bearing the same number as the permit with which it is issued. It shall be the duty of the permittee or his agent to affix such sticker to the sign in the lower right-hand area so it will be easily seen. The absence of a proper sticker shall be prima facie evidence that the sign has been or is being erected or operated in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
2.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach a sign decal to any sign for which it was not issued, or to remove, tamper with, deface or mutilate any sign identification label or sticker issued or placed pursuant to this section.
d.
Seasonal sales.
1.
Seasonal sales, as described in Section 90-143, are allowed one temporary freestanding sign per location with a maximum of 32 square feet of sign face for the duration of the seasonal business.
(x)
Variances.
(1)
Changes to the dimensional requirements of this section or to the size or number of signs allowed by this section, as they apply to a particular parcel of land or a particular business not covered by a master signage plan, must be sought through an application for a variance in accordance with the requirements of section 90-179 of this chapter.
(2)
Changes to the design requirements of this section, as they apply to freestanding or building signs on a particular parcel or particular business not covered by a master signage plan, may be approved at the discretion of the planning services director, or his or her designee. An appeal of the director's decision shall be made in accordance with the requirements of section 90-179 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 17-04 , § 1(Exh. A), 5-16-2017; Ord. No. 22-06 MEETING , § 1(Exh. A), 12-6-2022)
Sec. 90-136. - Automobile wrecking yards, junkyards and salvage yards.
The following provisions shall apply to all automobile wrecking yards, junkyards and salvage yards.
(1)
No automobile wrecking yard, junkyard or salvage yard shall be located closer than 300 feet to any residential district.
(2)
All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be conducted within an area entirely enclosed by an opaque fence or wall, except driveway areas. Fences or walls shall be not less than eight feet in height. Storage between such fence or wall and the street or property lines is expressly prohibited. Any fence or wall erected for screening purposes shall be properly painted or otherwise maintained in a good condition.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-65)
Sec. 90-137. - Unspecified uses.
(a)
It is not the intent of this chapter to prohibit any valid use of land or structures where it can be shown that such use is essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
(b)
When a use is not specified as a permitted use or a prohibited use in any zoning district, the director shall determine the appropriate zoning districts in which such a use may be located. Any property owner aggrieved by a decision of the director may appeal such decision to the planning commission, as set forth in section 90-179.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-66)
Sec. 90-138. - Adult bookstores, adult entertainment establishments, adult theaters.
(a)
Adult bookstores, adult entertainment establishments and adult theaters (referred to in this section as "adult uses") may be permitted in the C-2 and C-3 zoning districts, provided that the following location requirements must be complied with. No adult bookstore, adult entertainment establishment or adult theater shall be located in any of the following:
(1)
Within 500 feet of the lot line of a private residential dwelling;
(2)
Within 500 feet of the lot line of any public library;
(3)
Within 500 feet from the lot line of any church, synagogue, shrine, chapel or mortuary, or other place used for religious services;
(4)
Within 1,000 feet of the lot line of any school or college campus. The schools and colleges referred to in this subsection shall include only such public, private or church-supported schools that teach the subjects commonly taught in the common schools and colleges of this state, and shall not include private schools or colleges wherein only specialized subjects, such as law, stenography, business, music, art, vocational, occupational and other special subjects, are taught.
(b)
The distance restrictions set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall apply in all directions from the lot line of the proposed adult use at the point closest to the lot line of the other property, as measured in a straight line to the point on the lot line of the other property that is located closest to the lot line of the proposed adult use property. Such distance shall be verified by plat showing distances furnished by the applicant which has been prepared by a land surveyor registered in the state. This plat shall accompany and be made part of the application for a special exception.
(c)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize or legalize the selling, lending, renting, leasing, giving, advertising, publishing or other dissemination to any person, any book, magazine, movie film, still picture or any other written material, pornographic matter, novelty, device or related sundry item which is obscene material under the laws of the state.
(d)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize or legalize any act of prostitution, sodomy, solicitation for sodomy, masturbation for hire or distribution of obscene materials, as such acts are defined by the laws of the state.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-67)
Sec. 90-139. - Buffers and screening.
(a)
Purpose. Buffer yards and screening are required in order to reduce the impact of a use of land on adjacent uses that are of a significantly different character, density, or intensity. Buffers shall be required to be located on any development project, as specified in this section.
(b)
Applicability.
(1)
New construction. Any new building or site improvement must comply with the buffering and screening requirements of this section.
(2)
Exceptions. These regulations shall not apply to the construction or renovation of a single-family detached dwelling or two-family dwelling.
(3)
Maintenance and repair. An existing building or site may be repaired, maintained or modernized without providing additional buffering or screening, provided there is no increase in gross floor area or improved site area.
(4)
Additions.
a.
When an existing building is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by up to 25 percent cumulatively, buffering and screening is required for the additional floor or site area only.
b.
When an existing building is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by more than 25 percent cumulatively, both the existing building and site area and the additional floor or site area must conform to the buffering and screening requirements of this section.
(5)
Change in use. A change in use only triggers the application of these requirements if a previously-developed site or building has been unused for one year or longer, or when there is a specific use standard requiring buffering or screening for the new use.
(c)
Design standards.
(1)
Buffer areas shall contain no structures, driveways, parking areas, patios, stormwater detention facilities or any other accessory uses, except for a fence, wall or earthen berm which is constructed to provide the visual screening required to meet the standards of this chapter. Underground utilities may be permitted to cross a buffer if the screening standards of this chapter will subsequently be achieved. Buffer widths are established to provide areas for landscaping throughout the entire width of the buffer and not to appear as a single planted row.
(2)
Natural buffers may contain deciduous or perennial vegetation, but shall contain evergreen shrubs and trees suitable to local growing conditions that will provide visual screen during all seasons of the year. Natural buffers can be in the form of existing vegetation that is supplemented to provide the required separation from adjacent properties. Buffers should be designed to provide reasonable protection to adjacent neighbors from lights, sounds and other nuisance elements. The property owner shall be responsible for demonstrating the manner in which these criteria are met.
(3)
Structural buffers shall meet the following requirements:
a.
Structural barriers shall be vegetated throughout the minimum area required for the buffer around any fences or walls and upon any earthen berms, which may include grass, groundcovers, shrubs and trees.
b.
Trees shall be located or planted within any structural buffer at a density of not less than one tree for each 20 feet of buffer length, or portion thereof. New trees shall have a caliper of not less than two inches upon planting, and may be clustered for decorative effect following professional landscaping standards for spacing, location and design.
c.
Fences and walls shall present a finished and decorative appearance to the abutting property, and shall be located within two feet of the property line or on the highest elevation within the buffer area, provided that a variance in the location of such fences and walls may be granted in order to save and preserve existing vegetation where appropriate. The plan review staff will consult with the property owner to arrive at an agreement as to the optimum position for the location of the fence or wall consistent with the requirements set forth in the preceding sentence and depending on the need to address site specific conditions. Before the installation of the fence or wall in the buffer area, the property line must be surveyed by a surveyor licensed to practice in the State of Georgia.
d.
Buffers should be designed to provide reasonable protection to adjacent neighbors from lights, sounds and other nuisance elements. The property owner shall be responsible for demonstrating the manner in which these criteria are met. The plan for the buffers submitted by the property owner must show the types and heights of exterior light fixtures proposed and the calculations for the light candles originating from the property on and adjacent to the property before an electrical permit will be issued.
(d)
Residential zoning districts. Required buffers in residential zoning districts shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Width of buffer. Buffer width shall be as indicated in section 90-139(h).
(2)
Minimum required screening. Minimum required screening shall consist of a natural buffer, utilizing existing vegetation, which provides a visual screen to a minimum height of six feet, or any combination of existing and replanted vegetation which can reasonably be expected to create a visual screen to a minimum height of six feet within two growing seasons.
(3)
A minimum 50-foot natural buffer shall be maintained along the exterior boundary of a common development adjacent to a public or private road or right-of-way. Such buffer shall remain undisturbed, except for areas improved as part of an attractive entrance feature. The planning services director shall approve alternate entrance buffer treatments.
(e)
High density residential zoning districts. Required buffers in high density residential zoning districts shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Width of buffer. Buffer width shall be as indicated in section 90-139(h).
(2)
Minimum required screening. Minimum required screening shall consist of a natural buffer, utilizing existing vegetation, which provides visual screen to a height of six feet, or any combination of existing and replanted vegetation which can reasonably be expected to create visual screen to a height of six feet within two growing seasons.
(3)
Modifications. In lieu of a natural buffer, if a structural buffer is provided that creates a visual screen to a height of no less than six feet, the buffer may be reduced to a width of no less than ten feet.
(f)
Planned zoning districts. Required buffers in planned zoning districts shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Width of buffer. Buffer width shall be as indicated in section 90-139(h).
(2)
Minimum required screening.
a.
Minimum required screening of multifamily projects as a part of a planned development shall consist of a natural buffer, utilizing exiting vegetation which provides visual screen to a height of six feet, or any combination of existing and replanted vegetation which can reasonably be expected to create visual screen to a height of six feet within two growing seasons.
b.
Minimum required screening of non-residential projects as a part of a planned development shall consist of a structural buffer which creates a visual screen to a height of no less than six feet upon construction.
(3)
Modifications.
a.
Buffers may be established, increased or decreased by the board of commissioners as part of the zoning approval of the PUD, PRD, S-1, or PDD district.
b.
In lieu of a natural buffer, if a structural buffer is provided for a multifamily project that creates a visual screen to a height of no less than six feet, the buffer area may be reduced to a width of no less than ten feet.
c.
A natural buffer may be provided in lieu of a structural buffer for a nonresidential project if the existing and planted vegetation in the buffer area creates a visual screen to a height of six feet.
(g)
Nonresidential zoning districts. Required buffers in nonresidential zoning districts shall meet the following requirements:
(1)
Width of buffer. Buffer width shall be as indicated in section 90-139(h).
(2)
Minimum required screening. Minimum required screening shall consist of a structural buffer which creates a visual screen to a height of no less than six feet, upon construction of such screen.
(3)
Modifications.
a.
Structural buffers in nonresidential zoning districts may be increased to a maximum height of ten feet where necessary or relocated on the site due to site-specific conditions by the board of commissioners as part of the zoning approval to achieve the optimum screening required.
b.
A natural buffer may be provided in lieu of a structural buffer if the existing and planted vegetation in the buffer area creates a visual screen to a height of six feet.
(h)
Summary tables of requirements. The following tables present a summary of where buffers are required, the minimum width of such buffers, in feet, and the type of buffer.
EXPAND
Table 1.
STRUCTURAL
BUFFER
(width in feet) Neighboring Development
Low—Moderate Density
Residential District High Density
Residential District Planned Zoning District Non-Residential
Zoning District
Proposed
Development R-A, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-3A, R-4 T-R, A-R10, A-R Single-
family Residential Multi-
family Residential Office or Commercial Industrial P-1, C-1, C-C, C-2, S-1 C-3, M-1, M-2
High Density
Residential
T-R 20 None 20 None 20 20 10 20
A-R10 20 None 20 None 20 20 10 20
A-R 20 None 20 None 20 20 10 20
PUD 20 None 20 None 20 20 10 20
Non-Residential
P-1 20 20 20 20 None None None 20
C-1 20 20 20 20 None None None 20
C-C 30 30 30 30 None None None 20
C-2 30 30 30 30 None None None 20
S-1 30 30 30 30 None None None 20
PUD 30 30 30 30 None None None 20
PDD 20 20 20 20 None None None 20
C-3 40 40 40 40 20 None 20 None
M-1 40 40 40 40 20 None 20 None
M-2 40 40 40 40 20 None 20 None
  EXPAND
Table 2.
NATURAL
BUFFER
(width in feet) Neighboring Development
Low—Moderate Density
Residential District High Density
Residential District Planned Zoning District Non-Residential
Zoning District
Proposed
Development R-A, R-1, R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-3A, R-4 T-R, A-R10, A-R Single-
family Residential Multi-
family Residential Office or Commercial Industrial P-1, C-1, C-C, C-2, S-1 C-3, M-1, M-2
Low—Moderate Density
Residential
R-A See
Table
3 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-1 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-1A 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-2 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-3 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-3A 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
R-4 30 30 30 30 40 30 40
High Density
Residential
T-R 30 None 30 None 30 40 30 40
A-R10 30 None 30 None 30 40 30 40
A-R 30 None 30 None 30 40 30 40
PUD 30 None 30 None 30 40 30 40
Non-
Residential
P-1 30 30 30 30 None 20 None 20
C-1 30 30 30 30 None 20 None 20
  *C-C zoning districts and above MUST install a structural buffer.
EXPAND
Table 3.
NATURAL BUFFER
FOR LOW—MODERATE DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL
(width in feet) Neighboring Development
Low—Moderate Density Residential District
Proposed Development R-A R-1 R-1A R-2 R-3 R-3A R-4
Low—Moderate
Density
Residential
R-A 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-1 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-1A 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-2 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-3 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-3A 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
R-4 25 25 25 25 25 25 25
  (i)
Additional screening requirements. In addition to the buffering and screening required in this section, evergreen screening shall be required to conceal specific areas of high visual impact or hazardous areas. Plants and a solid fence or wall, at least the height of the item being screened, but not more than eight feet tall, shall be installed around all sides, excluding access gates, of the following areas:
(1)
Loading and service areas.
(2)
Refuse collection points/recycling drop-off centers.
(3)
Ground level mechanical, heating and air-conditioning equipment (except for single-family detached dwellings).
(4)
Outdoor electrical or other above-ground utility equipment.
(5)
Outdoor storage lots.
(6)
Storage tanks.
(7)
Communication towers and associated equipment structures.
Access gates to these areas shall be solid and, to the extent practical, not oriented to a public street.
(Ord. No. 16-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-7-2016; Ord. No. 16-29 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-20-2016)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-08 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 7, 2016, repealed the former § 90-139, and enacted a new § 90-139 as set out herein. The former § 90-139 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1979, § 2-16-68, Ord. No. 09-03, §§ 1—13, adopted Dec. 1, 2009; Ord. No. 12-06, § 1(Exh. A), adopted May 15, 2012.
Sec. 90-140. - Landscaping
(a)
Applicability.
(1)
New construction. Any new building or site improvement must comply with the landscaping and screening requirements of this section.
(2)
Exceptions. These regulations shall not apply to the construction or renovation of a single-family detached dwelling or two-family dwelling.
(3)
Maintenance and repair. An existing building or site may be repaired, maintained or modernized without providing additional landscaping or screening, provided there is no increase in gross floor area or improved site area.
(4)
Additions.
a.
When an existing use is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by up to 25 percent cumulatively, landscaping and screening is required for the additional floor or site area only.
b.
When an existing use is increased in gross floor area or improved site area by more than 25 percent cumulatively, both the existing building and site area and the additional floor or site area must conform to the landscaping and screening requirements of this section.
(5)
Change in use. A change in use only triggers the application of these requirements if a previously-developed site or building has been unused for one year or longer, or when there is a specific use standard requiring landscaping or screening for the new use.
(b)
Landscape plan required.
(1)
Before any building permit is issued, the building, use, or site must be found by the director of planning services to be in compliance with all requirements of this section. The director of development services cannot allow occupancy or use of a building until advised by the director of planning services that the building, use, or site meet the requirements of this section.
(2)
Landscape design and planning must be integrated with the overall design concept for any project; therefore, site plan approval will evaluate landscaping schemes as to their relationship to the existing natural landscape, developed, or proposed landscapes on adjacent properties and the public rights-of-way, and the building or buildings existing or proposed on the subject property and adjacent sites.
(3)
Landscape plans shall be prepared by a landscape architect, architect, or engineer legally registered under the laws of this state regulating the practice of landscape architecture, architecture, or engineering , and shall affix their seal to such plan. Landscape designers and installers may prepare landscape plans upon review and approval of the director of planning services.
(c)
Alternative landscape plan.
(1)
At the discretion of the planning services director, alternate landscaping plans, plant material, planting methods, or landscape design may be used where unreasonable or impractical situations would result from application of landscaping requirements, or where necessary to protect existing vegetation, or where a more creative plan is proposed which substantially complies with the intent of these requirements. Landscaping requirements may be reduced if existing trees or other types of existing vegetation are preserved. Alternative plans, materials, or methods may be justified from natural conditions such as streams, natural rock formations, topography, and other physical conditions related to the site. Lot configuration and the presence and location of utility easements may justify an alternative landscaping plan.
(d)
Landscape strip.
(1)
Non-residential and multi-family developments are required to maintain a minimum ten-foot wide landscape strip adjacent to any public or private street, or along any common driveway serving the purpose of a public or private street.
a.
For sites containing 50—100 parking spaces, the landscape strip must be 20 feet wide.
b.
For sites containing 100—200 parking spaces, the landscape strip must be 25 feet wide.
c.
For sites containing more than 200 parking spaces, the landscape strip must be 30 feet wide.
(2)
The landscape strip shall be planted as follows:
a.
One shade tree for every 40 feet of frontage shall be provided. Trees shall be a minimum of two and one half caliper inches at the time of planting, and must be selected from the list of approved tree species in section 90-145. When overhead powerlines are present, one small or medium tree may be planted for every 30 feet of frontage.
b.
One evergreen shrub for every four feet of frontage shall be provided. Each shrub shall be a species native or suitable to the region.
c.
Plantings may be evenly spaced or grouped to achieve an attractive effect, as long as the minimum required plantings are met.
d.
The remainder of the landscape strip shall be sodded, planted with groundcover species, and/or mulched to ensure stabilization.
e.
Landscape strips wider than ten feet shall be planted with tree and shrub quantities proportional to the width of the strip (e.g. a 20-foot wide landscape strip would require two shade trees for every 40 feet of frontage and two shrubs for every four feet of frontage).
(3)
Parking spaces, driveway surfaces, and stormwater facilities may not encroach within the landscape strip. Driveway crossings and sidewalks may encroach at the most perpendicular angle as possible. Low-impact stormwater facilities such as bio-swales and rain gardens may encroach within the landscape strip upon the approval of the director of planning services.
(e)
Street trees. Street trees may be provided as a substitute for a required landscape strip, upon approval by the planning services director, within the Evans Town Center Overlay District (ETCOD) or a Node Protection Overlay District (NPOD), and shall be maintained within, or adjacent to, all existing and proposed street rights-of-way in accordance with the following requirements:
(1)
Street trees shall be planted at a spacing of 40 feet on-center for shade trees or 20 feet on-center for ornamental and understory trees along the entire length of the street frontage of the proposed development, or as approved by the planning services director based on the development plans. Ornamental and understory trees shall be used as street trees only when there is an overhead obstacle which would preclude the use of taller-growing shade trees. A list of acceptable street trees is available in section 90-145.
(2)
Street trees shall be planted in a minimum six-foot wide tree lawn between the curb and sidewalk, and shall be planted no closer than three feet from the curb or sidewalk. The planning services director may approve an alternate planting plan to avoid conflicts with utilities.
(3)
Street trees shall include only those trees listed in the approved list of tree species in section 90-145, unless use of an alternative species is approved by the planning services director.
(4)
Street trees shall be located in a manner that minimizes conflicts with underground and above-ground utility lines.
(5)
A street tree planting plan shall be included with the development plan, and shall detail species, placement, size, number of trees, and the party responsible for perpetual maintenance.
(6)
Street trees shall be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the building to which the street trees closest relate.
(f)
Interior parking lot landscaping.
(1)
In addition to all other landscape requirements, all parking lots subject to this section shall provide and maintain landscaped planting areas within the interior of the parking lot. These standards shall not apply to parking structures. Each planting area shall consist of at least 180 square feet, or as approved by the administrator.
(2)
In cases where the area required for the construction of the minimum parking spaces as required by section 90-135 would cause the removal of a historic or heritage tree, the administrator may modify the landscaping requirements and/or the parking requirements in order to preserve the affected historic or heritage tree.
(3)
Interior planting areas shall be designed within parking areas as:
a.
Islands located at the end of parking bays;
b.
Islands located between parallel rows of cars, used to visually separate parking areas into pods;
c.
Driveway medians, which shall have a minimum width of six feet.
(4)
Each interior planting area shall contain approved shade trees and be planted at the following rates:
a.
One shade tree and eight shrubs for every 2,000 square feet, or portion thereof, of the total parking lot area, including drives and service areas.
b.
Not more than 12 continuous parking spaces shall be allowed in a row of parking without separation by a 180 square foot median containing at least one shade tree.
(5)
Each parking space must be located within 60 feet of a tree measured from the closest point of the parking space to the tree trunk.
(6)
Proposed shade trees being used to meet the interior parking lot landscaping requirements shall be located no further than ten feet and no closer than four feet, from the edge of pavement.
(7)
Existing shade trees may be used to meet the interior parking lot landscaping requirements at the discretion of the administrator if the tree(s) meet the intent of the interior parking lot landscaping requirements and the tree protection requirements.
(8)
Trees used to comply with interior parking lot requirements shall not count toward the number of trees required to meet the street tree requirements.
(9)
No more than 25 percent of required shrubs may be deciduous.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-69; Ord. No. 02-16, §§ 3, 4, 2-18-2003; Ord. No. 05-06, § 2, 6-7-2005; Ord. No. 06-04, §§ 1—5, 11-7-2006; Ord. No. 10-10, § 1(Exh. A), 11-2-2010; Ord. No. 16-09 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-7-2016; Ord. No. 19-15 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-17-2019)
Sec. 90-141. - Tree protection.
(a)
Purpose and intent. The purposes and intent of the following tree protection requirements are to:
(1)
Provide standards for the preservation of trees as part of the land development process;
(2)
Protect trees during construction and land development whenever possible in order to enhance the aesthetic appeal and quality of life within Columbia County;
(3)
Protect specimen trees while providing for reasonable use of land; and
(4)
Promote environmental quality.
(b)
Applicability.
(1)
The tree protection requirements of this section apply to any activity that requires a development permit, except as specifically exempted in section 90-141(c).
(2)
The tree removal and maintenance requirements of this section apply to all properties within Columbia County's jurisdiction, except as specifically exempted in section 90-141(c).
(3)
No land disturbance permit may be issued until it is determined that the proposed development conforms to the tree protection requirements of this section.
(4)
The minimum tree density requirements of sections 90-141(h) and (i) shall apply to new residential development, new non-residential construction and development, and expansion or renovation of existing non-residential development exceeding 75 percent or greater of the market value of the site and improvements.
(c)
Exemptions. The following activities are exempt from the provisions of this section:
(1)
The removal of trees from any lot which contains or is zoned and platted or to be platted for purposes of constructing an individual single-family or two-family dwelling.
(2)
The removal of trees from horticultural properties such as farms, nurseries, or orchards.
(3)
The removal of trees from a site maintained for ongoing timbering activity. A land disturbance permit will not be issued for a period of three years following tree removal.
(4)
The removal of trees by a utility company within dedicated utility easements, where necessary to install, remove, repair, or maintain utilities within the easement.
(5)
The removal of trees on public rights-of-way by or on behalf of any federal, state, county, municipal, or other government agency with jurisdiction, where necessary to lawfully construct, maintain, repair, or improve public rights-of-way.
(6)
The removal of trees from detention ponds and drainage easements where necessary for the construction, maintenance, or operation of detention ponds or drainage improvements within drainage easements.
(7)
The removal of any tree which has become or threatens to become a danger to human life or property, as determined by a certified arborist.
(d)
Site grading. Clearance of trees and vegetation during the land development process shall be limited to areas necessary for and directly related to the construction of improvements, including buildings, roads, related structures, stock pile staging areas, and material storage areas, or other areas specifically authorized by the approved land disturbance permit.
(e)
Tree protection survey and plan.
(1)
Tree survey required.
a.
Survey required. A tree survey must be submitted to the planning services director before the commencement of any alteration, defoliation, or land disturbing activity that requires the issuance of a land disturbance permit or a preliminary plat.
b.
Survey requirements. The tree survey must be in the form of a map drawn to scale or a site plan prepared and sealed by a registered land surveyor, registered professional engineer, registered landscape architect, an arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture, or a registered forester.
c.
Natural features. Important natural features such as streams, stream buffers, and wetlands must be shown on the tree survey.
d.
Specimen trees. All specimen trees, defined as deciduous and evergreen hardwood trees 16 inch caliper and larger and all pine varieties 20 inch caliperand larger, and their critical root zones and drip lines must be labeled and must be shown on the tree survey and inventoried by size and species. This includes specimen trees to be preserved as well as those proposed for removal.
e.
Other trees to be retained. All other trees to be counted toward meeting tree density unit requirements must be shown on the survey and inventoried by size and species. Only trees of three inch caliper or greater are eligible for tree density unit compliance purposes. Trees to be retained must be designated as tree save areas, including their drip line and critical root zones.
f.
Trees to be removed. Trees other than specimen trees that are proposed to be removed are not required to be counted and shown individually on the tree survey. Such trees may be estimated in number, size, and species and quantified as part of the total site inventory of tree population.
g.
Sampling. Sampling methods may be used to determine tree densities for forested areas over two acres.
h.
Tree-save areas. All tree-save areas must be delineated on the tree survey. All buffers with existing trees must be delineated as tree-save areas. Land disturbance within any buffer must be approved by the planning services director.
i.
List and tree density unit calculations. The tree survey must provide an accurate list of trees to be saved and their tree density units.
(2)
Tree survey inspection. Within ten working days following the receipt of a tree survey, the planning services director, or his designee, will conduct an inspection of the proposed development site. The applicant will be advised as to the date and time of the inspection and given an opportunity to attend and observe the inspection. Following the inspection, the planning services director, or his designee, will advise the applicant in writing or on the survey of any recommended changes to the applicant's tree survey.
(3)
Tree protection plan required. Before commencement of any alteration, defoliation, or land disturbing activity which requires the issuance of a land disturbance permit, as specified in chapter 34 of the Code, a tree protection plan must be submitted to Columbia County for approval.
(4)
Tree protection plan specifications. A tree protection plan is a detailed plan designed to protect and preserve trees before, during, and for a period of two years after issuance of a final certificate of occupancy, including the following:
a.
Separate drawing. The tree protection plan must be submitted as a separate drawing unless the planning services director approves a combination of tree protection plan with a tree replacement plan on a single drawing.
b.
Boundary survey. The tree protection plan must be submitted on a current boundary survey of the proposed site, drawn to scale, and must clearly show all required information.
c.
Tract identification. The plan must identify the tract of land involved by acreage and location.
d.
Owner and contact. The name, address, and phone number of the owner of the land and the name, address, and phone number of any tenant of the property, and 24-hour emergency contact phone number.
e.
Trees to be protected. The type, location, and size in caliper inches of all trees to be protected. Only trees designated on the approved tree protection plan will be counted toward meeting the minimum required tree density requirements.
f.
Specimen trees. Location, species, size, critical root zone, and drip line for specimen trees proposed to be protected or removed. Where a critical root zone or drip line for a tree on abutting property is proposed to be protected, it must be included in the tree protection plan.
g.
Tree save areas and clearing limits. All natural areas to be retained and buffers must be included in a tree save area.
h.
Tree protection methods. Methods of tree protection for all tree save areas, including tree fencing, erosion control, retaining walls, tunneling for utilities, aeration systems, transplanting, staking, signage, geoweb or similar material, permeable paving, bollards, and similar methods, must be included in the tree protection plan.
i.
Development characteristics. The plan must identify the location of roads, existing and proposed structures, paving, driveways, cut and fill areas, drainage before and after construction, including detention areas, and similar aspects of the proposed project that may affect tree protection.
j.
Utilities and easements. The plan must include the location of all existing and proposed utility lines or easements, including the location of any boring sites for underground utilities.
k.
Tree density units. Calculations showing the trees to be retained to meet minimum required tree density units must be included in the plan.
l.
Irrigation systems. The tree protection plan must indicate any irrigation systems.
m.
Additional information. Additional information may be required on a case-by-case basis by the planning services director.
(5)
As part of a tree protection plan, the planning services director may require relocation or replacement of trees as uniformly as possible throughout the site. The planning services director may also require the use of active tree protection fencing for any or all tree save areas.
(f)
Tree removal.
(1)
Applicability.
a.
The removal provisions apply to any person removing trees, as well as any person removing trees on behalf of any other person, including all tree removal companies, utility companies, or persons in the business of removing trees or construction.
b.
It is unlawful for any person or company to remove any tree or undertake any work for which a land disturbance permit is required unless a valid permit is in effect and displayed on the site.
c.
Utility companies may conduct emergency work without formal approval; provided, however, that emergency actions are reported in writing to the planning services director within three working days after completion of all emergency services. Further, the permit taken by any person, company, or utility may include defined areas of tree cutting and trimming under one permit.
(2)
Removal of specimen trees. No specimen tree may be removed unless in accordance with the following requirements.
a.
Justification for removal. Any applicant proposing to remove a specimen tree must apply for a tree removal permit. In addition to the requirements for tree removal permits, the applicant must provide a written explanation as to why the specimen tree cannot be retained on the site. This description must include a description of alternative site plans considered to avoid the removal of the specimen tree. The written explanation must at a minimum include the following:
1.
Consideration of whether any buildings or structures, parking areas, stormwater facilities, utilities, driveways, or other features of the proposed development can be relocated or designed to retain the specimen tree, and the additional costs of redesign, if any.
2.
Consideration of whether the land area consumed by the proposed development can be reduced via parking structures, reduction of the building footprint by increasing the building height, placement of stormwater facilities underground, and other appropriate means to retain the specimen tree, and the additional costs involved in the surface area modifications, if any.
b.
Planning services director approval. The director of planning services will approve or deny the application to remove a specimen tree, after review and recommendation from a certified arborist. The planning services director may issue a permit to remove one or more specimen trees after finding that one or more of the following conditions are met:
1.
The written analysis provides convincing evidence that alternative site and building designs have been considered by the applicant, but would not result in retention of the specimen tree.
2.
The additional cost associated with developing the site or constructing buildings as redesigned or reducing the site area consumed to retain one or more specimen trees would be disproportional to the value of the specimen tree retained, calculated at $100.00 per tree density unit.
3.
Where more than one specimen tree is proposed to be removed, the site design results in the minimum number of specimen trees removed that are necessary to accommodate the proposed development.
4.
The request to remove one or more specimen trees is reasonable considering the remaining specimen trees on the site that will be retained.
5.
A variance to the dimensional requirements of the zoning district may be an appropriate remedy to preserve a specimen tree. Where, in the opinion of the planning director, one or more variances would enable a site and building design to be accomplished while saving one or more specimen trees, and where the objectives of tree protection would outweigh the purposes of the dimensional requirements that would be varied, the planning director may suggest an applicant apply for variances instead of proposing to remove one or more specimen trees. A determination by the planning director that one or more variances to the dimensional requirements would not be appropriate may support a finding by the planning director in favor of granting approval to remove one or more specimen trees.
(3)
Removal of non-specimen trees.
a.
Removal of non-specimen trees from a site may be allowed at the discretion of the planning services director when:
1.
The tree is located in an area where a structure or improvement will be placed, and the tree cannot by relocated on the site because of age, species, or size;
2.
The tree is in an irreversible state of decline, or is structurally unsound and has been rated as a high risk tree by a qualified tree risk assessor;
3.
The tree is injured or poses an imminent danger, or has been rated as a high risk tree by a qualified tree risk assessor;
4.
The tree interferes with existing utility service; or
5.
The tree creates an unsafe visual obstruction for vehicular movement.
(4)
Site clean-up required. All tree removal companies, utility companies, or persons in the business of construction or removing trees must remove from the site any trees, stumps, limbs, or debris caused by tree removal activities.
(g)
Variances and appeals.
(1)
Applicants with a hardship imposed by the standards for tree protection may seek a variance from the standards pursuant to section 90-179.
(2)
Applicants dissatisfied with a staff decision regarding tree protection may appeal the decision to the planning commission pursuant to section 90-179.
(h)
Minimum tree density.
(1)
Minimum. All sites subject to the tree protection requirements must maintain a minimum tree density, measured in units per acre. The term "unit" is an expression of basal area, and is not synonymous with "tree." The tree density requirement must be met whether or not a site has trees prior to development.
(2)
Required tree density units. Tree density units required vary based on the type of development.
EXPAND
Type of Development Tree Density
Units Required
Per Acre
Professional, Commercial, Industrial 15
Residential 20
  (3)
Methods of achievement. The minimum required tree unit density may be achieved by protecting existing trees and by planting new trees on the site.
(4)
Calculation of existing tree density. Required tree density units are calculated on the basis of total (gross) area of the site or lot in question, excluding existing easements that are required to be cleared of trees. Only existing trees of not less than three inches DBH left in good growing condition and protected in tree save areas on the site count toward the minimum required tree density units. Protected trees are eligible for tree density credit based on the following table.
EXPAND
Existing Tree
Size (DBH) Tree Density Units
3" 1.0
4" 1.25
5" 1.75
6" 2.0
8" 2.5
10" 3.0
12" 3.75
14" 4.2
16" 5.0
18" 5.2
20" 5.5
22" 5.8
24" 6.3
26" 6.6
28" 6.9
30" 7.2
32" 7.5
34" 7.8
36" 8.1
38" 8.4
40" 8.7
42" 9.0
44" 9.3
46" 9.6
48" 9.9
50" or more 10.5
  (i)
Tree replacement.
(1)
Tree replacement plan. Trees must be relocated or replaced on site. As many trees as can reasonably be expected to survive must be planted on the site. This provision may require planting less trees of a larger caliper than the minimum required caliper. Tree selection and planting shall meet ANSI A300 and Z60.1 standards.
a.
Separate drawing. A separate tree replacement plan indicating the location of all proposed trees for revegetation is required. This plan must be submitted as a separate drawing, but with the planning services director's approval, may be included as a part of the tree protection plan.
b.
Planting schedules and species names. The tree replacement plan must include planting schedules with proposed trees species names (botanical and common), quantity, size, spacing, and any special planting notes.
c.
Overstory/understory ratio. Replanting must be at a ratio of not less than one overstory tree for every three understory trees. Tree density credit may be met by planting all overstory trees, but not by planting only understory trees.
d.
Diversity. No more than 40 percent of any one genus may be included in any replanting plan. Exceptions to this requirement may be authorized by the planning services director.
e.
Approved trees. Unless otherwise approved by the planning services director, trees selected for replanting must be on the tree species selection list in section 90-145. Invasive trees are not allowed under any circumstances. Trees selected must be free from injury, pests, disease, nutritional disorders, or root defects, and must be in good vigor in order to assure a reasonable expectation of survival. It is desirable that replanted trees be ecologically compatible with the site and neighboring sites. Accordingly, replanted trees must be of the same or similar species as those removed, when practical.
f.
Flowering ornamental trees. The use of flowering ornamental trees or plants classified as large shrubs may be included in the tree replacement plan, but may not be used for the purpose of meeting minimum tree density unit requirements for the site, unless approved by the planning services director.
g.
Transplanting trees. Standards for transplanting must be in keeping with those established in the latest edition of ANSI A300 (Part 6), and described in the published Best Management Practices: Tree Planting, developed by the International Society of Arboriculture.
h.
Planting and staking details. Planting and staking details must be provided on the tree replacement plan using International Society of Arboriculture standards.
i.
Practices. Columbia County encourages environmentally sustainable design practices such as drought-tolerant landscaping, keeping turf away from native trees, and planting trees strategically for energy conservation.
j.
Debris. All debris from trees cut or substantially damaged must be removed from the site or chipped in a timely fashion, including the removal or chipping of any portion of the tree stump above the original natural grade or elevation of land.
(2)
Calculation of replacement tree density. Newly planted trees are eligible for tree density credit based on the following table. Replacement trees may include street trees planted in public rights-of-way, either adjacent to or within the site.
EXPAND
Replacement Tree Size
(caliper) Tree Density Units
2" (understory only) 1.0
3" 1.0
4" 1.2
5" 2.1.7
6" 2.6
7" 3.5
8" 4.3
9" or more 6.0
  a.
A seven-gallon container-grown pine tree is given replacement credit of 0.5 units.
b.
For tree relocation, replacement units will be granted to trees relocated on site. Tree relocation is subject to approval by the planning services director.
(3)
Replacement tree size and height.
a.
All replanted overstory trees must be a minimum of eight feet tall and have a trunk of not less than three caliper inches.
b.
All replanted understory trees must be a minimum of six feet tall and have a trunk of not less than two caliper inches.
(4)
Minimum root zone.
a.
In order to provide sufficient growing area for planted trees, the following minimum criteria must be observed unless otherwise approved by the planning services director:
1.
Overstory tree: 200 square feet of pervious root zone.
2.
Understory tree: 75 square feet of pervious root zone.
b.
Impervious surface area may encroach into no more than 30 percent of the pervious root zone of a tree to be protected or planted, with techniques approved by the planning services director.
(5)
Permit. No land disturbance permit may be issued until the planning services director has approved the tree replacement plan.
(6)
Maintenance. All replacement trees must be maintained properly to ensure their survival.
(7)
Cut or filled slopes. Cut or filled slopes within residential developments and outside of building lots shall be replanted with evergreen trees at a rate of 20 tree density units per acre, independent of the tree density requirement for the overall development. Trees planted to meet this requirement may be counted toward the tree density requirement for the overall development.
(j)
Tree protection during construction.
(1)
Materials prohibited in tree save areas. No structure, improvement, or other activity, including solvents, material, construction machinery, portable toilets, construction trailers, or temporary soil deposits may encroach or be placed within a drip line or within six feet of the area immediately outside the drip line of any specimen tree or any tree within a tree save area.
(2)
Tree protection devices. Before land disturbance, the developer is required to erect suitable protective barriers pursuant to an approved tree protection plan, including tree fences, tree protection signs, and erosion barriers. County inspection of tree protection barriers is required prior to the commencement of any land disturbance or development. Tree protection measures must remain in functioning condition until completion of site landscaping, completion of the project, or until the certificate of occupancy is issued. Authorization to remove the protective devices must be evidenced by approval in writing by the planning services director or issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
(3)
Active tree protection devices. Materials for active tree protection must consist of chain link, wooden post and rail fencing, or other equivalent restraining material. In addition to fencing, where active tree protection is required, each tree to be saved must be marked at the base of the trunk with blue colored water-based paint.
(4)
Passive tree protection. Passive tree protection fencing is to be used only for areas remote from construction activity. Materials for passive tree protection must consist of orange laminated plastic or heavy plastic flagging, a minimum of four inches wide with dark letters reading "Tree Protection Area—Do Not Enter" or equivalent signage on a continuous durable restraint.
(5)
Additional measures. The developer must take measures to ensure the health of protected trees during construction, including, but not limited to:
a.
Water, fertilize, and treat the trees for pests or disease, as needed, in accordance with standards of the International Society of Arboriculture.
b.
Where grading covers the trees with dust, hose them off.
c.
Do not prune branches so that equipment or structures "fit" within the trees' protected zone.
d.
Do not strip the topsoil or remove the natural leaf mulch or material from beneath a protected tree.
e.
Trees should be felled away from, rather than into, tree save areas.
f.
Provide adequate mulching and water for trees that will be retained.
(6)
Tree damage. Any tree designated on a tree protection plan to be saved that is damaged during construction or as a result of construction, must be treated according to accepted standards, or replaced with trees equal to the tree density unit value of the tree removed or damaged. Any specimen tree removed or damaged must be replaced with twice the tree density unit value of the tree removed or damaged. Where a damaged specimen tree must be removed, the area occupied by its drip line must remain in a pervious state. A replacement plan must be approved by the planning services director.
(k)
Tree maintenance.
(1)
To prevent long-term harm to the health of trees or their structure, all pruning of trees within Columbia County must be done in accordance with ANSI A300 Tree, Shrub, and Other Woody Plant Management Standard Practices (Pruning).
(2)
On a single lot that contains or is zoned and platted for purposes of constructing a detached or attached house, tree maintenance requirements only apply to specimen trees.
(3)
"Topping," defined as reduction of tree size using intermodal cuts without regard to tree health or structural integrity, is prohibited.
(4)
Required tree density must be maintained on the site in perpetuity. Replacement of damaged or diseased trees shall meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. No. 16-10 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-7-2016; Ord. No. 16-28 , § 1(Exh. A), 9-20-2016; Ord. No. 19-16 , § 1(Exh. A), 12-17-2019)
Sec. 90-142. - Home occupations.
(a)
A home occupation is a business or profession carried on by an occupant of a dwelling as a secondary use, which is incidental to the main residential use.
(b)
All home occupations must comply with the following requirements:
(1)
The applicant for the home occupation must reside at the address of the home occupation.
(2)
A home occupation may not produce more than 12 additional vehicle trips to the residence per day.
(3)
Home occupations may not produce noise, dust, odor, light, or other impacts that unreasonably impact the use or enjoyment of adjacent properties.
(c)
Home occupations shall be allowed when they comply with the following requirements:
(1)
The operation of the business produces no change to the character or exterior appearance of the principal building or property from that of a residence.
(2)
The business is conducted only by members of the family residing on the premises, or is conducted in such a manner that employees are not required to travel to the residence as part of their occupation.
(3)
The business operations take place within the principal residential dwelling on the site and are out of sight of neighboring properties, and occupy less than 20 percent of the floor area of the principal dwelling, except that where personal care or daycare is provided, the business may occupy more than 20 percent of the dwelling.
(4)
The business does not have more than one commercial vehicle stored on the site.
(5)
The business does not require any storage, whether outside or in accessory structures, of any materials, equipment, or inventory.
(d)
Provisional home occupations may be approved by the planning commission for residential properties two acres or larger. Provisional home occupations may not be approved in multi-family zoning districts.
(1)
Provisional approval must be sought if any of the following apply:
i.
The business will take place in an accessory building including, but not limited to, a detached garage, workshop, ancillary dwelling, or similar structure. The use in the structure shall not exceed 50 percent of the square footage of the primary residence on the property, except in the case of agricultural operations.
ii.
The business will involve more than one commercial vehicle being stored on the property, or will involve the use of construction or other equipment intended to be stored on the property.
iii.
The business may involve limited outdoor or indoor storage, not to be visible from public right-of-way or from adjacent properties.
(2)
In order to apply for a provisional home occupation, the applicant must submit the following:
i.
Applicant name, address, and contact information; business name.
ii.
Property owner name, address, contact information, and evidence of approval by the property owner, if different from applicant.
iii.
Site plan clearly showing location of all buildings on the property and any parking or storage areas and their relationship to property lines and adjacent parcels. Driveways or other points of access must also be shown.
iv.
Narrative description of the proposed business and any site modifications to be made.
(3)
Once the application is complete, the application will be scheduled to be heard by the planning commission Notice of the public hearing shall follow the requirements set forth in section 90-180(5). Notice of this hearing shall be mailed to the applicant and owner of the property that is subject to the requested action. The planning commission shall have the authority to review and approve or deny provisional home occupations. The hearing shall follow procedures as outlined in section 90-180(6) of Columbia County Code. Approval of an occupational tax license associated with a provisional home occupation shall not occur until said occupation is approved by the planning commission. Applications for provisional home occupations shall be evaluated based on the established conditional use criteria in subsection 90-180(7).
(4)
Approval of a provisional home occupation may be revoked in the event that the applicant does not operate in the manner described in their application or fails to comply with any conditions established by the planning commission.
(5)
Approval of a provisional home occupation is not transferable to subsequent business owners or properties; any change in ownership, type of business, business location, or other aspect of the business will require a new application to the planning commission.
(e)
The following are prohibited as home occupations:
(1)
Vehicle-related businesses including car washes, vehicle repair, service, sales, and leasing.
(2)
Adult businesses, as defined in section 90-9.
(3)
Indoor or outdoor recreation facilities except where specifically allowed under section 90-50.
(f)
The following occupations, subject to the requirements of this section, are permitted as home occupations:
(1)
Barbershops and beauty shops, operated by not more than two members of the residence, with no more than two chairs.
(2)
Artists, dressmakers, seamstresses, tailors, crafts and interior decorators, gunsmith and other similar services.
(3)
Offices for architects, accountants, lawyers, engineers or other similar professionals.
(4)
Teaching, instruction and a day care, limited to six pupils each, at a given time.
(5)
Offices for businesses such as electricians, plumbers, HVAC and other contractors that perform their services at other locations and do not store materials or equipment at the site of the home occupation.
(6)
Agents for manufacturers and sales persons for records and bookkeeping only. Any orders shall be solicited from the dwelling only by telephone or fax, and no deliveries may be made at the dwelling.
(7)
Personal care home, not to exceed six persons receiving care.
(8)
Internet based business where no foot/car traffic is required.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-71; Ord. No. 11-08, § 1, 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 18-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-17-2018; Ord. No. 23-04 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-20-2023)
Cross reference— Businesses and business regulations, ch. 22.
Sec. 90-143. - Temporary uses and structures.
(a)
Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of certain temporary uses of limited duration, provided that such uses are discontinued upon the expiration of a prescribed time period. Temporary uses do not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building or structure.
(b)
General standards for all temporary uses and structures. All temporary uses and structures shall meet the following general requirements, unless otherwise specified in this chapter:
(1)
All temporary uses shall obtain a temporary use permit from the development services division, as approved by the director, or his or her designee.
(2)
The temporary use shall not be detrimental to property or improvements in the surrounding area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
(3)
Permanent alterations to the site are prohibited.
(4)
If the property is developed, the site of the temporary use or structure shall be located in an area that supports the temporary use without encroaching into, or creating a negative impact upon: existing buffers; open space; landscaping; pedestrian and vehicular traffic movements (including emergency vehicle access); and parking space availability.
(5)
If the property is undeveloped, the site of the temporary use and structure shall be located in an area with sufficient land area to enable the temporary use to function adequately, including any parking and vehicular and pedestrian traffic movement that may be associated with the temporary use, without disturbing sensitive or protected resources, including required buffers.
(6)
The temporary use shall not violate any applicable conditions of approval that apply to the principal use on the site.
(7)
If applicable, off street parking shall be adequate to accommodate the proposed temporary use.
(8)
All approved temporary signs associated with the temporary use shall be removed when the activity ceases.
(9)
All applicable inspections and permits have been approved and issued.
(c)
Specific standards for certain temporary uses and structures.
(1)
Seasonal sales. Seasonal sales, including the sale of such items as Christmas trees, pumpkins, seasonal produce, and other similar products may be permitted for a maximum of 90 days per calendar year, per site.
(2)
Sidewalk and parking lot sales. Sidewalk and parking lot sales, not under a permanent canopy, roofline, or enclosure, and located on the same lot as the merchant's principal use, may be permitted for a maximum of 90 days per calendar year. Sidewalk sales are prohibited within the public right-of-way.
(3)
Temporary office facilities and construction-related activities. Temporary facilities used as sales or leasing offices, construction offices, storage buildings, outdoor storage, and employee parking areas may be permitted on the same site as the permanent use, and shall be subject to the provisions of section 54-9, temporary uses.
(4)
Use of travel trailer or motorized home as a temporary residence. The use of a travel trailer or motorized home as a temporary residence may be permitted subject to the provisions of section 54-9, temporary uses.
(5)
Use of a temporary storage structure or shipping container for sales, service, storage, or other business. The use of any temporary storage structure or shipping container in which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold, services performed, or other businesses conducted shall be prohibited in all zoning districts. The use of a temporary storage structure or shipping container to store merchandise or goods may be permitted on properties zoned or used for commercial purposes for a maximum of 90 days per calendar year, provided that:
a.
The temporary storage structure or shipping container is located behind a business and in a manner that reasonably screens it from view from rights-of-way and neighboring properties;
b.
The temporary storage structure or shipping container does not occupy any required parking spaces;
c.
No more than one temporary storage structure or shipping container shall be permitted for any property under one acre in size.
d.
Temporary uses shall be allowed no more than one temporary storage structure or shipping container.
(d)
Specific standards for mobile vendors. This subsection provides specific standards for the operation of mobile food, retail, and service establishments out of a mobile vending unit at a specific location for more than two consecutive days.
(1)
A valid mobile vending permit issued by Columbia County is required prior to setting up or selling merchandise. Permit certificates shall be attached to the mobile vending unit where they are readily visible, and shall include the current name, mailing address, and valid phone number of the mobile vending unit owner;
(2)
Permitted merchandise shall be limited to food, non-alcoholic beverages, clothing and clothing accessories, and items related to such merchandise;
(3)
Written permission to operate must be obtained from the property representative or owner. If at any time the property owner or representative revokes that permission, the mobile vendor permit shall be automatically revoked;
(4)
Required parking for the primary business(es) shall be minimally affected;
(5)
Signage shall be permitted on the vehicle. A separate sandwich board is allowed, not exceeding 12 square feet in area and 40 inches height. This sign must be located on the same property as and within 50 feet of the mobile vending unit, and may not be placed on the sidewalk or in the public right-of-way;
(6)
Garbage receptacles must be made available for patron use and must be removed from the site daily by the vendor;
(7)
Mobile food vendors shall meet all applicable Columbia County Health Department regulations and possess a valid mobile food service permit, where applicable;
(8)
Any mobile food vendor or vending unit that has been issued a notice of health violation by any department of the State of Georgia, which remains uncorrected upon a subsequent inspection, shall have its mobile vendor permit automatically revoked;
(9)
All vendors must obtain from Columbia County an appropriate, current occupational tax;
(10)
No vendor shall:
a.
Leave any vehicle unattended;
b.
Store, park or leave any vehicle overnight on any street or sidewalk;
c.
Leave from any location without first picking up, removing and disposing of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the vendor;
d.
Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles;
e.
Sell anything other than that for which a permit to vend has been issued;
f.
Sound or permit the sounding of any device that produces a loud and raucous noise, or use or operate any loudspeaker, public address system, radio, sound amplifier or similar device to attract the attention of the public;
g.
Change vending locations without first notifying the licensing and permitting department and submitting the required permissions and site plan; and
h.
Discharge fat, oil, grease, or waste water into the sanitary sewer system. All waste shall be properly stored and disposed of at a properly designated disposal location.
(Ord. No. 17-01 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-21-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-01 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted March 21, 2017, repealed the former § 90-143, and enacted a new § 90-143 as set out herein. The former § 90-143 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1979, § 2-16-72; Ord. No. 15-05, § 1(Exh. A), adopted March 31, 2015.
Sec. 90-144. - Placement of buildings and structures.
(a)
Minimum principal building setbacks. All principal buildings on a lot shall be set back from the street centerlines and from the front, side and rear lot lines bounding the lot no less than the set forth in section 90-53 for residential zoning districts and section 90-98 for other zoning districts, or as may otherwise provided in this chapter.
(b)
Accessory buildings. Minimum setbacks for accessory buildings shall be as follows:
(1)
Accessory buildings having a floor area of 400 square feet or less must be at least five feet from any property line.
(2)
Accessory buildings having a floor area greater than 400 square feet must comply with the same setbacks as required for principal buildings in each zoning district.
(c)
Accessory structures. Minimum setbacks for accessory structures, excluding buildings, but including parking lots, shall be as follows:
(1)
Fences and freestanding walls. There shall be a minimum setback for fences and freestanding walls, other than those provided as part of a structural buffer as set forth in section 90-139 or specifically required by this subsection, provided that any fence or freestanding wall shall not obstruct visibility at street intersections, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 74, and shall conform to the following height restrictions:
a.
In the R-1A, R-2, R-3, R-3A, and PRD zoning districts, and residential portions of PUDs, the following shall apply:
1.
A fence or freestanding wall placed along a collector or arterial street, or other placed for privacy or decorative purposes along a street that adjoins a subdivision, may not exceed eight feet in height, and shall not be constructed of, wire or chainlink. Such fences and freestanding walls shall present a finished and decorative appearance to the adjoining street, and shall be located no closer than two feet to the right-of-way line. Shrubs, groundcovers or other vegetation shall be provided between the fence or wall and the right-of-way line so as to provide a decorative effect, following professional landscaping standards for spacing, location and design.
2.
All other fences or freestanding walls that are closer to a street than the front principal building setback line located between the front exterior wall of the house and the road shall not exceed three feet (36 inches) and shall not be constructed of wire or chainlink. The front exterior wall shall be determined based on the orientation of the house, independent of street frontages.
3.
On corner or double frontage lots, fences or freestanding walls located closer to a street than the front principal building setback line, between other than the front exterior wall of the house and the road, shall not exceed four feet (48 inches), shall not be constructed of wire or chainlink, and shall not extend past the front exterior wall of the house. The front exterior wall shall be determined based on the orientation of the house, independent of street frontages.
4.
A fence or freestanding wall that is closer to a side or rear property line than the front, side or rear principal building setback line, may not exceed six feet in height.
b.
In the R-A, R-1, T-R and A-R residential zoning districts, any fence or freestanding wall that is closer to a property line than the front, side or rear principal building setback line, may not exceed eight feet in height.
c.
A fence or freestanding wall that is closer to a property line than the front, side or rear principal building setback line, as applicable in the commercial, industrial, professional, special or planned development or commercial sections of planned unit development zoning districts, may not exceed eight feet in height, with no more than an additional two feet of security wire.
(2)
Gasoline pumps. Pumps that dispense gasoline, kerosene, propane, natural gas or diesel fuel shall comply with the front, side or rear principal building setback lines, as applicable, in each zoning district, except that the setback may be reduced in the C-2 zoning district to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(3)
Canopies. Canopies shall conform to the front, side or rear principal building setback line, as applicable, in each zoning district, except that the setback may be reduced in the C-2 zoning district to no less than 50 feet from the street right-of-way at the discretion of the board of commissioners.
(4)
Other accessory structures. Accessory structures, excluding buildings, but including parking lots, not otherwise set forth in this section, must be at least five feet from any property line.
(d)
Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from the setback requirements of this chapter:
(1)
Surface parking areas.
(2)
Driveways and circulation aisles.
(3)
Landscaping areas, buffer plantings and buffer structures.
(4)
Sidewalks and other pedestrian facilities, including benches.
(5)
Stormwater drainage facilities, and public and private utility connections.
(6)
Flagpoles, customary yard accessories, ornaments and furniture.
(7)
Satellite dishes of one meter in diameter or less, and television reception antennas.
(Ord. No. 17-02 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-1-2017)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 17-02 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted Aug. 1, 2017, repealed the former § 90-144, and enacted a new 90-144 as set out herein. The former § 90-144 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 09-02, § 3, adopted June 2, 2009.
Cross reference— Buildings and building construction, ch. 18.
Sec. 90-145. - List of recommended trees.
(a)
This section lists trees recommended for planting as part of the requirements of section 90-139 buffers and screening, section 90-140 landscaping, and section 90-141 tree protection, and other instances where trees must be planted as part of the development of land. The director of planning services may approve the use of additional species not listed below.
* Denotes acceptable street tree species
Small trees
Flowering Crabapple (Malus sp.)
Washington Hawthorn (Crataegus phaenopyrum)
Redbud (Cercis canadensis or C. reniformis)
Serviceberry (Amelanchier sp.)
Dogwood (Cornus florida or C. kousa)
Crapemyrtle (Lagerstroemia indica, L. faurei or hybrids—varieties with mature height under 20 feet)
Trident Maple (Acer buergeranum)
Medium trees
Littleleaf Linden (Tilia cordata)
Kentucky coffee tree (Gymnocladus dioicus)
Chalk Maple (Acer leucoderme)
Southern Sugar Maple (Acer barbatum)
Chinese pistache (Pistacia chinensis)
Chinese elm (Ulmus parvifolia) *
Zelkova (Zelkova serrata)
Tree Hollies (Ilex x attenuata)
Katsura-tree (Cercidiphyllum japonicum)
Crapemyrtle (Lagerstroemia indica, L. faurei or hybrids—varieties with mature height over 20 feet).
Large trees
Oak (Quercus sp.) *
Basswood (Tilia americanum)
(b)
Prohibited trees.
Callery pear (including 'Bradford' and other varieties of Pyrus calleriana)
Leyland Cypress (Cupressocyparis x leylandii)
Silver Maple (Acer saccharinum)
Goldenrain Tree (Koelreuteria paniculata)
Chinese Flametree (Koelreuteria bipinnata)
White Poplar (Populus alba)
White Mulberry (Morus alba)
Paper Mulberry (Broussonetiapapyrifera)
Mimosa (Albizia julibrissin)
Empress-tree (Paulownia sp.)
Ash (Fraxinus sp.)
Chinaberry (Melia azedarach)
Tree-of-heaven (Ailanthus altissima)
Tallowtree (Triadica sebifera)
(Ord. No. 16-11 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-7-2016)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 16-11 , § 1(Exh. A), adopted June 7, 2016, repealed the former § 90-145, and enacted a new § 90-145 as set out herein. The former § 90-145 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 02-16, adopted Feb. 18, 2002; Ord. No. 06-07, §§ 1, 2, adopted Nov. 7, 2006.
Sec. 90-146. - Additional requirements for the S-1 special district—Outdoor firearm training and sports facilities.
The following provisions shall apply to all outdoor firearm training and sports facilities.
(1)
Definitions.
Outdoor firearm training and sports facilities means facilities designed and specifically designated for training, shooting practice, and competition with firearms, whether open to the public, open only to private membership, open to organizational training, or any combination thereof.
NRA range manual means the range manual—A Guide to Planning and Construction, The National Rifle Association, 2012, available for inspection at planning services department.
Safety fan of an outdoor firearm training and sports facilities consists of the direct fire zone and the safety zone. The direct fire zone is that area into which all shots are fired during the normal course of shooting. This zone includes all directions and angles of fire used on an outdoor firearm training and sports facilities while shooting at a specific target, either stationary or moving, from a specific firing point. The length of the direct fire zone extends to the maximum range of the ammunition and firearm used on the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities. The safety zone extends 45 degrees to the left and right of the direct fire zone, beginning from the firing lane, and protects against errant bullets caused by ricochet, cross fire and accidental discharge of a firearm.
(2)
Development standards.
a.
NRA range manual. In addition to the requirements herein, all outdoor firearm training and sports facilities shall be designed in accordance with the guidelines and specifications set forth in the NRA range manual. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the NRA range manual, the provision of this chapter shall control.
b.
Outdoor firearm training and sports facilities design. Outdoor firearm training and sports facilities design shall include sufficient land area under the ownership and control of the land owner to accommodate the maximum range of the ammunition and firearm used on the firearm training and sports facilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parcel of land on which the outdoor firearm training and sports facility is located shall contain no less than 30 acres.
(3)
Hours of operation. Outdoor firearm training and sports facilities shall only be open for use between 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(4)
Application. In addition to the information required for an S-1 special zoning district, the following additional information is required for an application for an S-1 special district zoning, as described in section 90-93 of this Code, for use as an outdoor firearm training and sports facilities:
a.
The tax assessor's map of the subject property.
b.
The types of firearms, ammunition and shooting to be allowed, such as trap, skeet, muzzle loader, high power rifle, small bore rifle, pistol, action pistol, etc.
c.
A site plan prepared by a licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect drawn to scale illustrating the items listed below. The site plan shall be drawn at a scale not smaller than one inch equals 200 feet, and not larger than one inch equals 50 feet:
1.
The property lines of the parcel(s) of land on which the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities is to be developed.
2.
The safety fan and its component parts.
3.
All existing and proposed structures on the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities, labeled for their intended use.
4.
The location and dimensions of all firing lanes and firing positions on the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities.
5.
The location and dimensions of all target lines and related facilities on the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities.
6.
The locations, dimensions and slope of all backstops and side berms, whether natural or manmade; the volume, material and source of all imported materials shall be noted.
7.
The locations and dimensions of all baffles; horizontal drawings of the baffles shall be included, and building materials shall be identified.
8.
The location and dimensions of all walkways.
9.
All screening, landscaping and fencing.
10.
The location of all utilities, including but not limited to electrical, potable water, wastewater disposal, and drainageways, both natural and artificial.
11.
The location of all lighting facilities.
12.
The location of all roads, driveways, and parking facilities, including the number of parking spaces.
13.
The location of all streams, watercourses, and wetlands on the property.
d.
A list of all property owners within 2,640 feet of the perimeter of the property on which the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities is proposed for development.
e.
The land uses of all properties abutting the outdoor firearm training and sports facilities property.
f.
Other information deemed appropriate by the director of planning services.
(5)
Penalties—Violations. Violations are subject to the provisions of section 1-6 of these ordinances. Any violation is a public nuisance. Each day a violation exists is a separate violation. Payment of any penalty imposed for a violation does not relieve a person from the duty to comply with this chapter.
(6)
Liability for damages. The ordinance codified in this chapter shall not be construed to hold the county of Columbia County, or any officer or employee thereof, responsible for any damages to persons or property by reason of the certification, inspection or no inspection of any building, equipment or property as herein authorized.
(Ord. No. 15-25, § 1(Exh. A), 8-18-2015)
Sec. 90-147. - Use provisions.
(a)
Classification of uses.
(1)
Principal uses.
a.
In order to regulate a variety of similar uses, use categories have been established for principal uses. Use categories provide a systematic basis for assigning uses to appropriate categories with other similar uses. Use categories classify principal uses and activities based on common functional, product, or physical characteristics.
b.
Where a use category contains a list of included uses, the list is to be considered example uses, and not all-inclusive. The planning services director has the responsibility for categorizing all uses.
c.
The tables of allowed uses in section 90-50 and section 90-97 establish permitted uses by district. Use definitions and limited use standards for principal uses are specified in section 90-147.
(2)
Accessory uses.
a.
An accessory use is any use that is subordinate in both purpose and size, incidental to and customarily associated with a permitted principal use located on the same lot.
b.
The tables of allowed uses in section 90-50 and section 90-97 establish permitted accessory uses by district. Use definitions and limited use standards for accessory uses are specified in section 90-147.
(b)
Principal uses not listed. A principal use not specifically listed is prohibited unless the planning services director determines the use to be part of a use category as described below.
(1)
The planning services director is responsible for categorizing all principal uses. If a proposed use is not listed in a use category, but is similar to a listed use, the planning services director may consider the proposed use part of that use category. When determining whether a proposed use is similar to a listed use, the planning services director must consider the following criteria.
a.
The actual or projected characteristics of the proposed use;
b.
The relative amount of site area or floor area and equipment devoted to the proposed use;
c.
Relative amounts of sales;
d.
The customer type;
e.
The relative number of employees;
f.
Hours of operation;
g.
Building and site arrangement;
h.
Types of vehicles used and their parking requirements;
i.
The number of vehicle trips generated;
j.
How the proposed use is advertised;
k.
The likely impact on surrounding properties; and
l.
Whether the activity is likely found independent of other activities on the site.
(2)
Where a use not listed is found by the planning services director not to be similar to any other allowed use, the use is only allowed following a text amendment, pursuant to section 90-180.
(c)
Accessory uses not listed. An accessory use not specifically listed is prohibited unless the planning services director determines the accessory use:
(1)
Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with an allowed principal use;
(2)
Is subordinate to and serving an allowed principal use;
(3)
Is subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal use served;
(4)
Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or needs of occupants, business, or industry in the principal use served; and
(5)
Is located on the same lot as the principal use served.
(d)
Agricultural uses.
(1)
Defined. The production or management of crops, livestock, or poultry. Agriculture also includes the following:
a.
Barn, pole barn, storage structure.
b.
Small-scale agriculture.
c.
Timber harvesting.
(2)
Use standards. Where allowed as a limited use, the operation of commercial poultry houses, dairies, ranges, and/or feedlots for the commercial sale of meat or eggs is prohibited.
(3)
Barn, pole barn, storage structure.
a.
Defined. A fully or partially enclosed structure, used primarily for storage of agricultural equipment, livestock, or other similar items.
b.
Use standards. Where a barn, pole barn, or storage structure is allowed as a limited use, the storage of equipment, material, or other items related to the operation of a business is prohibited. An agricultural business is exempt from this standard.
(4)
Small-scale agriculture.
a.
Defined. The limited production or management or crops, livestock, or poultry for individual or family use. A community garden is considered small-scale agriculture.
b.
Use standards. Where allowed as a limited use, small-scale agriculture is subject to the following:
1.
Operation of poultry houses, dairies, ranges, and feedlots for the commercial sale of meat or eggs is prohibited.
2.
On parcels smaller than one acre, residential gardening and the keeping of no more than six chickens may take place. The nuisance provisions of chapter 34, article II shall apply.
(5)
Timber harvesting.
a.
Defined. The cutting, harvesting, or hauling of timber (softwood or hardwood) for delivery as pulpwood, logs, poles, posts, or wood chips.
b.
Use standards. Where allowed as a limited use, timber harvesting is subject to the standards enumerated in section 34-1 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
(e)
Residential uses.
(1)
Household living.
a.
Defined. Residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a household. Household living includes the following:
1.
Single-family, two-family, townhouse, multi-family.
2.
Manufactured home.
b.
Single-family.
1.
Defined. One dwelling unit in a single principal structure; may also contain an accessory unit in an attached accessory apartment or a carriage house.
c.
Two-family.
1.
Defined. Two dwelling units in a single principal structure.
d.
Townhouse.
1.
Defined. Three or more dwelling units where each unit is separated vertically by a common side wall. Units cannot be vertically mixed.
e.
Multi-family.
1.
Defined. Three or more dwelling units in a single principal structure that do not meet the definition of a townhouse above.
2.
Use standards. Where multi-family is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the following:
(i)
Multi-family units are allowed only in the upper stories of a mixed use building within Evans Town Center Overlay District (ETCOD) or Node Protection Overlay District (NPOD). A lobby or other entrance is allowed on the ground floor.
f.
Manufactured home.
1.
Defined. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width or 40 feet or more in length, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet in floor area, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems; or a structure that otherwise comes within the definition of a "manufactured home" under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended (42 USC 5401-5445). A single-wide manufactured home is a home meeting all of the requirements of a manufactured home and which is typically 14 feet wide. A double-wide manufactured home is a home meeting all of the requirements of a manufactured home and which is typically 24 feet wide.
2.
Use standards. Where a manufactured home is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted by the board of commissioners subject to section 90-180, and the standards below. Where a manufactured home is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The property on which a single-wide manufactured home is located must be a minimum of five acres, and the minimum front building setback must be a minimum of 125 feet from the street centerline.
(ii)
Manufactured homes must adhere to the applicable requirements of chapter 54 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
g.
Manufactured home park.
1.
Defined. A plot or tract of land on which two or more manufactured homes are to be located or are intended to be located for purposes of residential occupancy.
2.
Use standards. Where a manufactured home park is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted by the board of commissioners subject to section 90-180, and chapter 54 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
h.
Tiny house.
1.
Defined. Tiny house means a tiny house as defined in section 90-9 of this Code of Ordinances.
2.
Use standards. Where a tiny house is allowed as a limited use, it may be permitted subject to chapter 54 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances. Where permitted as a conditional use, it may be permitted by the board of commissioners subject to section 90-180 and chapter 54 of this Code of Ordinances.
i.
Tiny house community.
1.
Defined. Any parcel or tract of land on which four or more tiny houses are located or are intended to be located.
2.
Use standards. Where a tiny house community is allowed as a limited use it may be permitted subject to chapter 54 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances. Where permitted as a conditional use it may be permitted by the board of commissioners subject to section 90-180 and chapter 54 of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
(2)
Group living.
a.
Defined. Residential occupancy of a structure by a group of people that does not meet the definition of household living. Generally, group living facilities have a common eating area for residents, and residents may receive care or training. Group living includes the following:
1.
Continuing care retirement community.
2.
Group home.
3.
Hospice.
4.
Institutional residential.
5.
Monastery, convent.
b.
Continuing care retirement community.
1.
Defined. A residential facility providing multiple comprehensive services to older adults. Allows residents to continue living in the same complex as their housing and health care needs change. Continuing care retirement communities offer a variety of services such as assisted living, independent living, skilled nursing, health and wellness, recreational facilities, support services, and entertainment and social uses.
2.
Use standards. Where continuing care retirement community is allowed as a conditional use it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the standards below. Where it is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The minimum campus size is ten acres.
(ii)
A continuing care retirement community must maintain a minimum of 25 percent of its units as assisted living or skilled nursing care units; and
(iii)
The continuing care retirement community may have on site as a part of its campus the following accessory uses for use of residents and their guests only: full-service kitchen for meals, exercise facilities, swimming pools, tubs and spas, administrative offices, nursing stations, treatment rooms, emergency paging systems, indoor and outdoor recreational facilities, handicap-assisted restrooms, hair salons, computer facilities, game and card rooms, chapel, movie theaters, wellness centers, billiard rooms, restaurant facilities, common areas, libraries, dining rooms, mail rooms, housekeeping and storage areas, laundry facilities, and gift shops.
c.
Group home.
1.
Defined.
(i)
A residential dwelling unit containing up to six unrelated persons who are mentally or physically impaired who are protected under the Fair Housing Act, along with support or supervisory personnel or family members who may reside at the facility.
(ii)
The term mental or physical impairment includes conditions such as blindness, hearing impairment, mobility impairment, HIV infection, mental retardation, alcoholism, drug addiction, chronic fatigue, learning disability, head injury, and mental illness.
(iii)
Current users of illegal controlled substances, persons convicted for illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, sex offenders, and juvenile offenders are not considered mentally or physically impaired under the Fair Housing Act.
(iv)
The Fair Housing Act affords no protections to individuals with or without disabilities who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. Determining whether someone poses such a direct threat must be made on an individual basis, however, and cannot be based on general assumptions or speculation about the nature of the disability.
d.
Hospice.
1.
Defined. A healthcare facility for the terminally ill that emphasizes pain control and emotional support for the patient and family, typically refraining from taking extraordinary measures to prolong life.
e.
Institutional residential.
1.
Defined. An umbrella term that encompasses the following uses as defined below: assisted living facility, independent living, intermediate care home, nursing home, personal care home (over six persons), and skilled nursing care facility.
2.
Assisted living facility. Residences that offer a housing alternative for older adults who may need help with dressing, bathing, eating, and toileting, but do not require the intensive medical and nursing care provided in nursing homes.
3.
Independent living. Adults at least 55 years of age or older living within multi-family rental properties with central dining facilities that provide residents, as part of their monthly fee, access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation, and social and recreational activities. Independent living facilities do not provide, in a majority of the units, assistance with activities of daily living such as supervision of medication, bathing, dressing, and toileting. There are no licensed skilled nursing beds on the property.
4.
Intermediate care home. A facility that admits residents on medical referral only, and includes the provision of food and special diets when required, shelter, laundry, and personal care services, such as help with dressing, getting in and out of bed, bathing, feeding, medications, and similar assistance, such services being under appropriate licensed supervision. Intermediate care does not include providing care for bed-ridden patients except on an emergency or temporary basis.
5.
Nursing home. A facility that admits patients on medical referral only and for whom arrangements have been made for continuous medical supervision, maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care, and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will be available for any medical or dental emergency and who will be responsible for the general medical and dental supervision of the home.
6.
Skilled nursing care facility. A facility that admits residents on medical referral, maintains the services and facilities for skilled nursing care and has a satisfactory agreement with a physician and dentist who will provide continuing supervision including emergencies, complies with rules and regulations of the Georgia Department of Human Resources. The term "skilled nursing care" means the application of recognized nursing methods, procedures, and actions directed toward implementation of a physician's therapeutic and diagnostic plan, detection of changes in the human body's regulatory system, preservation of such body defenses, prevention of complications and emotional well-being, including but not limited to the following:
(i)
The administration of oral or injectable medications which cannot be self-administered. Other examples include the administration of oxygen, the use of suction, the insertion or changing of catheters, the application of medicated dressings, the use of aseptic technique, and preparation of the patient for special procedures;
(ii)
Observation in the care of the patient for symptoms and/or physical and mental signs that may develop and which will require attention of the physician and a revision in the patient's treatment regimen.
f.
Monastery, convent.
1.
Defined. A place of residence providing group living accommodations to a community of persons living in seclusion under religious vows.
(3)
Social service and educational.
a.
Defined. A facility that provides treatment for persons not protected under the Fair Housing Act or who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. Includes persons convicted for illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, sex offenders, and juvenile offenders. Also includes facilities that provide transient housing related to post-incarceration and social service programs.
(f)
Public/institutional uses.
(1)
Civic.
a.
Defined. Places of public assembly that provide ongoing governmental, life safety, educational, and cultural services to the general public, as well as meeting areas for religious practice. Civic includes the following:
1.
College, university.
2.
Club or lodge, nonprofit.
3.
Museum, library.
4.
Nonprofit service organization.
5.
Place of worship.
6.
Public use.
7.
School, private (K-12).
8.
School, special.
b.
College, university.
1.
Defined. An institution of higher education having authority to award degrees.
c.
Club or lodge, nonprofit.
1.
Defined. A facility used for associations or organizations of an educational, fraternal, or social character, not operated or maintained for profit.
d.
Museum, library.
1.
Defined. A facility having public significance by reason of its architecture or former use or occupancy, or a building serving as a repository for a collection of books, natural, scientific, literary curiosities or objects of interest, or works of art, and arranged, intended, and designed to be viewed by members of the public, with or without an admission fee, and which may include as an accessory use the sale of goods to the public as gifts or for their own use.
e.
Nonprofit service organization.
1.
Defined.
(i)
An organization that serves as an advocate for the public in the areas of emergency assistance and basic needs relating to housing, healthcare, and social services. The emergency assistance involves needs relating to nourishment, clothing, rent, utilities, transportation, and holiday assistance. In addition, the organization may provide volunteer programs and workshops to assist in financial planning for those needing emergency assistance.
(ii)
A nonprofit service organization may be involved in the collection and distribution of donated items, and the retailing of items not to exceed 40 percent of the overall on-site facility housing the organization.
f.
Place of worship.
1.
Defined. A building or structure that by design and construction is primarily intended for conducting organized religious services. Associated accessory uses include, but are not limited to, schools, meeting halls, indoor and outdoor recreational facilities, clergy house, day care, counseling facilities, and kitchens.
g.
Public use.
1.
Defined. Any building, structure, or use owned or operated by the federal government, State of Georgia, Columbia County or other county, municipality, or any authority, agency, board, or commission of the above governments, that is necessary to serve a public purpose, including but not limited to, government administrative buildings, post offices, fire and EMS stations, public health facilities, public works facilities, community centers, and jails and correctional facilities.
h.
School, private (K—12).
1.
Defined. An educational facility for students in grades pre-kindergarten through 12 not operated by the Columbia County Board of Education that has a curriculum at least equal to a public school with regard to the branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public schools of the State of Georgia.
i.
School, special.
1.
An educational facility not operated by the Columbia County Board of Education that provides special education to more than two students at a time, including but not limited to the training of gifted, learning disabled, and mentally or physically handicapped persons.
(2)
Parks and open space.
a.
Defined. Uses focusing on natural areas consisting mostly of vegetation, passive or active outdoor recreation areas, and having few structures. Parks and open space includes the following:
1.
Cemetery.
2.
Community recreation.
3.
Conservation area.
4.
Golf course.
5.
Park, recreation field.
6.
Reservoir, water supply, water well.
b.
Cemetery.
1.
Defined. The use of property as a burial place.
2.
Use standards. Where a cemetery is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180, and buildings and graves must be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any property line.
c.
Community recreation.
1.
Defined. A private recreational facility for use solely by the residents and guests of a particular residential development, including indoor facilities such as community meeting rooms and outdoor facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and playgrounds. These facilities are usually proposed, planned, and provided in association with a development and are usually located within the boundaries of the development.
2.
Use standards. Where community recreation is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
Swimming pools and tennis courts must be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the property line of the tract of land devoted to community recreation.
(ii)
Buildings must be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the property line of the tract; and
(iii)
Where adjacent to a residential use, a minimum 20-foot wide structural buffer, meeting the requirements of section 90-139, must be provided along the property line.
d.
Conservation area.
1.
Defined. A tract of land that is protected in order to ensure that natural features, cultural heritage, or biota are preserved. May include recreation trails, greenways, nature preserves, and land dedicated to the Columbia County Greenspace program.
e.
Golf course.
1.
Defined. A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A golf course may include a clubhouse, shelters, and maintenance facilities as accessory uses.
f.
Reservoir, water supply, well.
1.
Defined. A facility that provides a source of water.
(3)
Major utilities.
a.
Defined. Public or private infrastructure, including but not limited to water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, internet, cable, and other similar services serving the general community and possibly having on-site personnel. Major utilities include the following:
1.
Electrical substation.
2.
Electric or gas generation plant.
3.
Telecommunication tower.
4.
Water or sanitary sewer treatment plant.
b.
Telecommunication tower.
1.
Defined. Any structure that is design and constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. Does not include any structure erected solely for a residential, noncommercial individual use, such as television antennas, satellite dishes, or amateur radio antennas.
2.
Use standards. Where a telecommunication tower is allowed as a conditional use, it is subject to the requirements of chapter 18, article IX of the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
(4)
Minor utilities.
a.
Defined. Public or private infrastructure, including but not limited to water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, internet, cable, and other similar services serving a limited area with no on-site personnel. Minor utilities include the following:
1.
On-site stormwater retention or detention facilities.
2.
Neighborhood-serving cable, telephone, gas, or electric facility.
3.
Water or wastewater pump or lift station.
b.
Use standards. Where a minor utility is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
Minor utility facilities must be essential to the service of the immediate area;
2.
Materials storage is not permitted;
3.
Vehicles must not be permitted to access the site, except for purposes of maintenance, repair, and inspections; and
4.
All minor utilities must be screened by a structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139.
(g)
Commercial uses.
(1)
Day care.
a.
Defined. A facility providing care, protection, and supervision of children or adults on a regular basis away from their primary residence. Care is provided to a given individual for less than 24 hours a day. Day care includes the following:
1.
Adult care center.
2.
Day care center.
b.
Adult care center.
1.
Defined. A facility, whether operated for profit or not, that undertakes through its ownership or management to provide for less than 24-hour per day, basic adult day care or adult day health services to three or more adults, not related by blood or marriage, who require basic services. Includes any establishment that regularly provides adult custodial services.
2.
Use standards. Where an adult care center is allowed as a limited use, the facility must meet the requirements of section 90-142 pertaining to customary home occupations.
c.
Day care center.
1.
Defined. Any place operated by a person, society, agency, corporation, institution, or group, and licensed or registered by the State of Georgia as a group day care home or day care center, where services are received for pay for group supervision and care, for fewer than 24 hours per day, for children under 18 years of age.
2.
Use standards. Where a day care is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the standards below. Where a day care is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
A day care center must have at least 100 square feet of outdoor play area and at least 35 square feet of indoor space provided for each child served; and
(ii)
The outdoor play area must be enclosed by a fence with a minimum height of four feet.
(iii)
Where the above requirements conflict with requirements of the State of Georgia, the more restrictive standard applies.
(iv)
Where limited in a residential district, the use must meet the requirements of section 90-142 pertaining to customary home occupations.
(2)
Indoor recreation.
a.
Defined. A commercial facility, varying in size, providing daily or regularly scheduled recreation-oriented activities in an indoor setting. Indoor recreation includes the following:
1.
Adult business.
2.
Amusement center, game/video arcade.
3.
Assembly hall, auditorium, meeting hall.
4.
Billiard hall, pool hall.
5.
Bowling alley.
6.
Extreme sports facility, such as BMX, skateboarding, or roller blading.
7.
Firearm training and sports facility.
8.
Gym, health spa, or yoga studio.
9.
Ice or roller skating rink.
10.
Indoor sports facility.
11.
Inflatable playground.
12.
Miniature golf facility.
13.
Motor track.
14.
Movie theater or other indoor theater.
15.
School for the arts, including dance, singing, music, painting, sculpting, fine arts, or martial arts.
16.
Special event facility.
b.
Adult business.
1.
Defined. Any business or establishment, as described in chapter 90 of the Code of Ordinances, where employees or patrons expose specified anatomical areas or engage in specified sexual activities for the purpose of sexual gratification, or any business which offers its patrons goods, services, or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, discussing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. A business or establishment offering goods, articles, publications, books, magazines, movies, videotapes, or other reproductions relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas is not deemed an adult business if the segment or section devoted to the sale of such materials comprises less than five percent of its total space.
2.
Use standards. Where an adult business is allowed as a conditional use, the facility must meet all specifications of chapter 6 of the Code of Ordinances, and may be permitted subject to section 90-180.
c.
Firearm training and sports facility.
1.
Defined. A facility with an enclosed firing range with targets for archery, rifle, or handgun practice.
d.
Gym, health spa, yoga studio.
1.
Defined. An establishment which for profit or gain provides as one of its primary purposes services or facilities which are purported to assist patrons improve their physical condition or appearance. Not included within this definition are facilities operated by nonprofit organizations, facilities wholly owned and operated by a licensed physician at which such physician is engaged in the practice of medicine, or any establishment operated by a health care facility, hospital, intermediate care facility, or skilled nursing care facility.
2.
Use standards. Where allowed a limited use, outdoor activities or training are prohibited.
e.
School of the arts.
1.
Defined. An educational facility not operated by the Columbia County Board of Education that offers or provides instruction to more than two students at a time in dancing, singing, music, painting, sculpting, fine arts, martial arts, gymnastics, or cheerleading.
f.
Special event facility.
1.
Defined. A facility or assembly hall available for lease by private parties or special events, such as weddings.
(3)
Medical.
a.
Defined. A facility providing medical or surgical care to patients. Some facilities may offer overnight care. Medical includes the following:
1.
Ambulatory surgical center.
2.
Blood plasma donation center, medical or dental laboratory.
3.
Hospital, urgent care, emergency medical office.
4.
Medical, dental office or chiropractor, osteopath, physician, medical practitioner.
5.
Medical clinic.
6.
Social service, medical.
b.
Social service, medical.
1.
Defined. A facility that provides treatment for persons who present a direct threat to the persons or property of others. Includes persons convicted for illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, sex offenders, and juvenile offenders.
(4)
Office.
a.
Defined. A facility used for activities conducted in an office setting and generally focused on business, professional, or financial services. Office includes the following:
1.
Business services including, but not limited to, advertising, business management consulting, computer or data processing, graphic design, commercial art, or employment agency.
2.
Professional services including, but not limited to, lawyer, accountant, auditor, bookkeeper, engineer, architect, sales office, travel agency, interior decorator, or security system services.
3.
Financial services including, but not limited to, lender, investment or brokerage house, bank, call center, bail bonds, insurance adjuster, real estate or insurance agent, mortgage agent, or collection agency.
4.
Counseling in an office setting.
5.
Radio, TV station, recording studio.
6.
Trade, vocational, business school.
7.
Vehicle broker.
b.
Bail bonds.
1.
Defined. A facility with a bail bond agent, or bondsman, that provides surety and pledges money or property as bail for the appearance of persons accused in court.
c.
Call center.
1.
Defined. A facility used for the purpose of receiving or transmitting a large volume of telephone calls.
d.
Radio, TV station, recording studio.
1.
Defined. A facility in which video, radio, or sound production takes place, either for live broadcasting or for the acquisition of raw footage for post-production.
e.
Trade, vocational, business school.
1.
Defined. An educational use not operated by the Columbia County Board of Education or Georgia Board of Regents and having a curriculum devoted primarily to business (including barbers and beauticians), industry, trade, or other vocational-technical instruction.
(5)
Outdoor recreation.
a.
Defined. A commercial facility, varying in size, providing daily or regularly-scheduled recreation-oriented activities. Activities take place predominantly outdoors or within outdoor structures. Outdoor recreation includes the following:
1.
Drive-in theater.
2.
Camp or campground.
3.
Commercial marina.
4.
Extreme sports facility such as BMX, skateboarding, or roller blading.
5.
Firearm training and sports facility.
6.
Outdoor amusements such as batting cage, golf driving range, amusement park, miniature golf facility, or water park.
7.
Outdoor theater.
8.
Outdoor sports field/court.
9.
Riding stable.
10.
Racetrack.
11.
Stadium, arena.
b.
Commercial marina.
1.
Defined. A facility that extends into or over a navigable waterway and offers services to the public or members of the marina for docking, loading or unloading, fueling, or other servicing of recreational watercraft. Marinas may also include wet or dry storage facilities and restaurants.
c.
Firearm training and sports facility.
1.
Defined. A facility designed and specifically designated for training, shooting practice, and competition with firearms, whether open to the public, open only to private membership, open to organizational training, or any combination thereof.
2.
Use standards. Where firearm training and sports facility is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the provisions of section 90-146.
d.
Riding stable.
1.
Defined. A facility used primarily for the care, breeding, boarding, rental, riding, or training of horses or for the teaching of equestrian skills.
2.
Use standards. Where a riding stable is allowed as a limited use, it may be permitted subject to the following:
(i)
No part of any building, structure, or run in which animals are housed can be closer than 150 feet from any property line, except property owned or occupied by an owner or operator of the facility.
(6)
Overnight lodging.
a.
Defined. Accommodations arranged for short term stays. Overnight lodging includes the following:
1.
Bed and breakfast (up to six rooms).
2.
Boutique hotel (seven to 30 rooms).
3.
Hotel/motel (more than 30 rooms).
b.
Bed and breakfast (up to six rooms).
1.
Defined. A facility where overnight accommodations not exceeding six rooms are provided for compensation, with or without a morning meal, and which may include an afternoon or evening meal for guests, and where the operators of the facility live on the premises. Bed and breakfast does not include retail uses, public bar, conference center, or special events facility.
c.
Boutique hotel (seven to 30 rooms)
1.
Defined. A facility not exceeding 30 rooms where overnight accommodations for 15 days or less are provided for compensation and where entry to individual guest rooms is via a central lobby. A boutique hotel may include as accessory uses the following: full dining, public bar, retail use, and special events facility.
d.
Hotel/motel (more than 30 rooms).
1.
Defined. A facility with more than 30 rooms where overnight accommodations for 15 days or less are provided for compensation. A hotel/motel may include as accessory uses the following: full dining, public bar, retail uses, special events and conference center facilities.
(7)
Parking.
a.
Defined. A facility that provides parking as a principal use. Parking includes the following:
1.
Commercial parking.
2.
Remote parking.
b.
Commercial parking.
1.
Defined. A facility that provides parking as a principal use on the site. A fee may or may not be charged.
2.
Use standards. Where commercial parking is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the standards below. Where commercial parking is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
A 20-foot structural buffer must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(ii)
All surface parking areas must meet the requirements of section 90-140.
(8)
Personal service
a.
Defined. A facility involved in providing personal or repair services to the general public. Personal service includes the following:
1.
Animal care.
2.
Beauty, hair, or nail salon.
3.
Catering establishment.
4.
Cleaning establishment, dry-cleaning or laundry drop-off facility, laundromat, washeteria.
5.
Copy center, printing, binding, photocopying, blueprinting, mailing service.
6.
Funeral home, funeral parlor, mortuary, undertaking establishment, crematorium.
7.
Locksmith.
8.
Optometrist.
9.
Palmist, psychic, medium, fortune telling.
10.
Repair of appliances, bicycles, canvas product, clocks, computers, jewelry, musical instruments, office equipment, radios, shoes, television, watch, or similar items.
11.
Tailor, milliner, or upholsterer.
12.
Tattoo parlor or body piercing.
13.
Taxidermist.
14.
Therapeutic massage.
15.
Tutoring.
16.
Wedding chapel.
b.
Animal care (indoor).
1.
Defined. A facility designed or arranged for the care of animals without any outdoor activity. No outdoor activity associated with care of animals is allowed. Includes animal grooming, animal hospital, veterinary clinic, pet clinic, animal boarding, animal shelter, cattery, commercial kennel (six or more dogs), and doggy day care.
c.
Animal care (outdoor).
1.
Defined. A facility designed or arranged for the care of animals that includes outdoor activity. Includes animal grooming, animal hospital, veterinary clinic, pet clinic, animal boarding, animal shelter, cattery, commercial kennel (six or more dogs), and doggy day care.
2.
Use standards. Where outdoor animal care is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180, and the standards below. Where outdoor animal care is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
All outdoor exercise areas and runs must be fenced for the safe confinement of animals;
(ii)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along any outside areas used to exercise, walk, or keep animals that abuts a ground floor residential use; and
(iii)
No animal may be outdoors between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
d.
Massage.
1.
Defined. Massage means the manipulation and treatment of soft tissues of the body, including the use of effleurage, petrissage, pressure, friction, tapotement, kneading, vibration, range of motion stretches and any other soft tissue manipulation, whether manual or by mechanical or electrical apparatus, and may include the use of oils, lotions, creams, salt glows, hydrotherapy, heliotherapy and hot and cold packs. Massage services shall include the practice of Reiki.
2.
Use standards. Where massage is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180, and the requirements of chapter 22, article IV massage service.
e.
Use standards for all other personal service. Where personal service is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the standards below. Where personal service is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
The floor area of the use cannot exceed 15 percent of the gross floor area of the entire building or 5,000 square feet, whichever is greater; and
2.
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
(9)
Restaurant.
a.
Defined. A facility that prepares and sells food and drink for on- or off-premise consumption. Restaurant includes the following:
1.
Brewpub.
2.
Coffee or tea shop.
3.
Restaurant, take out or pizza delivery facility.
4.
Restaurant, fast food.
5.
Restaurant, sit down.
6.
Yogurt or ice cream shop.
b.
Brewpub.
1.
Defined. An eating establishment in which malt beverages are manufactured subject to state law production limits. As used in this chapter, the term "eating establishment" means a business which is licensed to sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, and or wines, and which derives at least 50 percent of its total annual gross food and beverage sales from the sale of prepared meals or food; provided, however, that when determining the total annual gross food and beverage sales, barrels of malt beverages sold to licensed wholesale dealers, or to the public for consumption off the premises, as authorized by state law and Columbia County ordinances, shall not be considered.
c.
Use standards. Where a restaurant is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
The floor area cannot exceed 15 percent of the gross floor area of the entire building, or 7,500 square feet, whichever is greater; and
2.
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
(10)
Retail sales.
a.
Defined. A facility involved in the sale, lease, or rental of new or used products. Retail sales includes the following:
1.
Antiques, appliances, art supplies, baked goods, bicycles, books, building supplies, cameras, carpet and floor coverings, crafts, clothing, computers, convenience goods, dry goods, electronics, fabric, flowers, furniture, garden supplies, gifts or novelties, groceries, hardware, home improvement, household products, jewelry, medical supplies, music, musical instruments, office supplies, package shipping, pets, pet supplies, pharmaceuticals, phones, photo finishing, picture frames, plants, pottery, printed materials, produce, seafood, shoes, souvenirs, sporting goods, stationery, tobacco, toys, vehicle part and accessories, videos, video games, and related products.
2.
Art gallery.
3.
Cottage industries such as candle making, glass blowing, pottery making, weaving, woodworking, sculpting, and other similar or associated activities.
4.
Convenience store with fuel pumps or gas station.
5.
Convenience store without fuel pumps.
6.
Manufactured building or mobile home sales.
7.
Mobile vending.
8.
Pawnshop.
9.
Payday/title loans or check cashing.
b.
Convenience store with fuel pumps.
1.
Defined. A facility with a floor area less than 7,500 square feet that sells convenience goods, such as prepackaged food items and a limited line of groceries. A convenience store with fuel pumps can sell vehicle fuel, but cannot have any type of vehicle repair or service.
2.
Use standards. Where a convenience store with fuel pumps is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180, and the standards below. Where a convenience store with fuel pumps is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
All fuel pumps must be located at least 25 feet from any public right-of-way or lot line, and all buildings and appurtenances must be located at least 100 feet from all lot lines abutting a residential use.
(ii)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a residential use.
(iii)
All fuel must be stored underground outside of any right-of-way.
(iv)
When the use is within or attached to a multi-tenant building, the floor area cannot exceed 15 percent of the gross floor area of the entire building or 5,000 square feet, whichever is greater; and
(v)
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
c.
Convenience store without fuel pumps.
1.
Defined. A facility with a floor area less than 7,500 square feet that sells convenience goods, such as prepackaged food items and a limited line of groceries. A convenience store without fuel pumps cannot sell vehicle fuel or have any type of automotive service.
2.
Use standards. Where a convenience store without fuel pumps is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
When the use is within or attached to a multi-tenant building, the floor area cannot exceed 15 percent of the gross floor area of the entire building or 5,000 square feet, whichever is greater; and
(ii)
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
d.
Manufactured building, mobile home, or tiny house sales.
1.
Defined. A facility that displays outdoors pre-constructed storage buildings, mobile or modular homes, or tiny houses for sale, rent, or lease.
2.
Use standards. Where manufactured building, mobile home, or tiny house sales is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The minimum lot size is one acre;
(ii)
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all property lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(iii)
Parked or stored structures may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk; and
(iv)
The lot must contain a permanent structure to be used as a business or sales office.
e.
Mobile vending.
1.
Defined. Retail sales from a self-contained, purpose-built food service, retail, or service establishment that is vehicle-mounted or wheeled and is capable of being readily moveable.
2.
Use standards. Where mobile vending is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the specific standards for mobile vendors found in subsection 90-143(d). Where mobile vending is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the specific standards for mobile vendors found in subsection 90-143(d).
f.
Pawnshop.
1.
Defined. An establishment engaged in a business involving in any part of the pledge, pawn, or exchange of any goods, wares, merchandise, or any kind of personal property or title as security for the repayment of money lent.
2.
Use standards. Where a pawnshop is allowed as a limited use, the pawnshop cannot be located within 5,000 feet of any other pawnshop or title loan or check cashing business (measured in a straight line from building entrance to building entrance).
g.
Title loans, check cashing.
1.
Defined. A facility engaged in the business of making loans in exchange for possession of the certificate of title to property or a security interest in titled property. Also includes check-cashing, which is a business other than a bank or savings and loan or similar financial institution that cashes checks for a fee as a business activity and may or may not also make title loans as part of that business activity.
2.
Use standards. Where title loan or check cashing is allowed as a limited use, it cannot be located within 5,000 feet of any other title loan or check cashing business or pawnshop (measured in a straight line from building entrance to building entrance).
h.
Retail package sale of distilled spirits for off-premise consumption.
1.
Establishments operating pursuant to a license permitting the sale of distilled spirits in packages may sell alcoholic beverages in packages through a drive-up window allowing pass through to automobiles or pedestrians, provided that all such packages are sealed.
2.
No establishment operated pursuant to a license under this article shall be located in a building which is closer than 1,000 feet to a church building, a school building, county park or playground, or an alcoholic treatment facility. In applying this section, the director of development services or designee shall determine what property is included in a church building, school building county park or playground or alcoholic treatment facility.
3.
No proposed establishment in the business of retail package sales of distilled spirits for off-premise consumption shall be permitted within one mile of an existing establishment in the business of retail package sales of distilled spirits for off-premise consumption.
4.
For purposes of this section, subject to the qualifications set forth in this subsection, distances shall be measured in a straight line from the main entrance door of the establishment for which the license under this article is being sought to the nearest point on the boundary line of the land making up the campus of the church building, school building, county park or playground, or alcoholic treatment facility.
5.
No establishment which is being operated pursuant to a county license to sell alcohol on May 17, 2022, the effective date of this article, shall be denied continued operation under such existing license, nor denied any renewal of such license, nor shall any new owner of such establishment be denied a new license based upon the measurements set forth in this section. Upon cessation of the operation of the establishment as set forth in section 6-56 pursuant to such license, such exemption shall cease. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the cessation of the operation of the establishment is for one year or less, such exemption shall not cease.
(11)
Vehicle sales/rental.
a.
Defined. A facility that sells, rents, or leases passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles. Vehicle sales/rental includes the following:
1.
Recreational vehicle sales, leasing, or rental
2.
Vehicle rental.
3.
Vehicle sales or leasing, new.
4.
Vehicle sales or leasing, used.
b.
Recreational vehicle sales, leasing, or rental.
1.
Defined. A facility that sells, leases, or rents motor vehicles or trailers which include living quarters designed for temporary accommodation.
2.
Use standards. Where recreational vehicle sales, leasing, or rental is allowed as a limited or conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements set forth in section 90-180, and/or the following:
(i)
The minimum lot size is one and one-half acres;
(ii)
The lot must contain a permanent structure to be used as a business or sales office;
(iii)
The area used for the parking and display of recreational vehicles must contain a stabilized base of not less than four inches covered by a minimum of two inches of pavement or concrete;
(iv)
The lot must have two driveways, one for ingress and one for egress, or one driveway adequate to permit simultaneous ingress and egress;
(v)
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(vi)
Recreational vehicle display areas may not be artificially elevated above the general topography of the site;
(vii)
Parked or stored recreational vehicles may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk; and
(viii)
No loud or boisterous noises can emanate from the place of business, either by persons congregating there or by the playing of recorded instruments, radios, or television sets, or other sound producing equipment.
c.
Vehicle rental.
1.
Defined. A facility that rents motor vehicles for short periods of time (usually ranging from a few hours up to two weeks) for a fee.
2.
Use standards. Where vehicle rental is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all property lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(ii)
All surface parking areas must meet the requirements of section 90-140;
(iii)
Vehicle display areas may not be artificially elevated above the general topography of the site; and
(iv)
Parked or stored vehicles may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk.
d.
Vehicle sales or leasing, new.
1.
Defined. A facility where a manufacturer-authorized business or dealer engages in the sale or lease of new and used motor vehicles where a majority of the sales inventory is new.
2.
Use standards. Where new vehicle sales or leasing is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The minimum lot size is one and one-half acres;
(ii)
The lot must contain a permanent structure to be used as a business or sales office;
(iii)
The lot must have two driveways, one for ingress and one for egress, or one driveway adequate to permit simultaneous ingress and egress;
(iv)
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(v)
The area used for the parking and display of vehicles must contain a stabilized base of not less than four inches covered by a minimum of two inches of pavement or concrete;
(vi)
Vehicle display areas may not be artificially elevated above the general topography of the site; and
(vii)
Parked or stored vehicles may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk.
(viii)
No loud or boisterous noises can emanate from the place of business, either by persons congregating there or by the playing of recorded instruments, radios, or television sets, or other sound producing equipment.
e.
Vehicle sales or leasing, used.
1.
Defined. A facility that sells used vehicles. A used vehicle is any pre-owned, leased, or second-hand vehicle to which a certificate of title and license plates have been issued to a consumer or dealer, and any used or second-hand vehicle, defined as any vehicle required to be titled and trailers weighing over 2,500 pounds.
2.
Use standards. Where used vehicle sales or leasing is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180, and the following:
(i)
The minimum lot size is one and one-half acres;
(ii)
The lot must contain a permanent structure to be used as a business or sales office;
(iii)
The area used for the parking and display of vehicles must contain a stabilized base of not less than four inches covered by a minimum of two inches of pavement or concrete;
(iv)
The lot must have two driveways, one for ingress and one for egress, or one driveway adequate to permit simultaneous ingress and egress;
(v)
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use;
(vi)
Vehicle display areas may not be artificially elevated above the general topography of the site;
(vii)
Parked or stored vehicles may not encroach upon any public right-of-way or sidewalk; and
(viii)
No loud or boisterous noises can emanate from the place of business, either by persons congregating there or by the playing of recorded instruments, radios, or television sets, or other sound producing equipment.
(h)
Industrial uses.
(1)
Light industrial.
a.
Defined. Uses that are located on or have ready access to a major street or state highway, and are well adapted to industrial development, but whose proximity to residential or commercial districts makes it desirable to limit the intensity of industrial operations and processes. This district limits industrial, manufacturing, and warehousing uses to those which are most often conducted indoors, with the exception of outdoor storage, which is screened and situated in a side or rear yard. Light industrial uses include the following:
1.
Automobile or truck storage lot (excluding junk/wrecked vehicles).
2.
Bottling plant.
3.
Brewery, distillery, microbrewery.
4.
Clothing, textile, or apparel manufacturing.
5.
Contractors office with storage.
6.
Detention center, jail, or prison.
7.
Facilities engaged in the assembly or manufacture of scientific measuring instruments; semiconductor and related devices, including, but not limited to clocks, integrated circuits, jewelry, medical, musical, photographic, optical, or timing instruments.
8.
Food processing/packaging/canning plant (other than poultry/meat processing).
9.
Laundry, dry-cleaning, and carpet cleaning plants.
10.
Pest control, extermination business.
11.
Pharmaceutical or medical supply manufacturing.
12.
Sale or rental of machinery, heavy equipment, or special trade tools.
13.
Sheet metal, welding, machine shop, tool repair.
14.
Stone, clay, glass, or concrete products.
15.
Taxicab and limousine service.
16.
Towing/wrecker service and impound lot.
17.
Woodworking, cabinet makers, furniture manufacturing, upholstery shop.
b.
Brewery.
1.
Defined. A facility involved in the creation of malt beverages that produces 15,000 barrels or more (or the equivalent) per year.
c.
Contractors office with storage.
1.
Defined. A facility engaged in the provision of off-site contractor activities, including, but not limited to, plumbing, electrical work, building, grading, paving, roofing, carpentry, exterminating, landscaping, and other such activities, including the storage of material and the overnight parking of commercial vehicles.
2.
Use standards. Where contractors storage is allowed as a limited use, all outdoor storage areas must be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way, public parking areas, and abutting properties using a minimum ten-foot wide structural buffer, which meets the requirements of section 90-139.
d.
Detention center, jail, prison (private).
1.
Defined. A privately run facility to which people are legally committed as a punishment for crimes they have committed or while awaiting trial.
e.
Distillery.
1.
Defined. A facility involved in the creation of any alcoholic spirits beverage with an alcohol volume greater than 21 percent.
f.
Microbrewery.
1.
Defined. A facility involved in the creation of malt beverages that produces fewer than 15,000 barrels per year.
g.
Sale or rental of machinery, heavy equipment, or special trade tools.
1.
Defined. A service industry providing machinery, equipment, and tools for a limited period of time or for sale.
(2)
Heavy industrial.
a.
Defined. Industrial operations and processes conducted both indoors and outdoors, which due to their intensity of use, should be located on or have ready access to a major thoroughfare or state highway, and not in close proximity to residential areas. Limited overnight quarters for managerial or supervisory staff are allowed. Heavy industrial uses include the following:
1.
Asphalt plant.
2.
Chemical plant (non-pharmaceutical).
3.
Concrete or masonry plant.
4.
Explosives plant, storage.
5.
Landfill.
6.
Manufacturing or assembly plant.
7.
Metal smelting or forging works.
8.
Paper mill.
9.
Poultry/meat processing plant.
10.
Quarry/mining operation, borrow pit.
11.
Recycling and recovery facility.
12.
Salvage operation, junkyard.
13.
Sawmill, lumberyard.
14.
Septic tank pumping company.
15.
Slaughterhouse.
16.
Tree service, log splitting, chipping and shredding operation.
b.
Concrete or masonry plant.
1.
Defined. A facility that manufactures concrete, concrete blocks, bricks, or artificial stone products.
2.
Use standards. Where a concrete or masonry plant is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where concrete or masonry plant is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The facility must be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way, public parking areas, and abutting properties using a minimum 30-foot structural buffer, which meets the requirements of section 90-139; and
(ii)
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
c.
Manufacturing or assembly plant.
1.
Defined. A facility devoted entirely to the manufacture or assembly of consumer goods or industrial products.
2.
Use standards. Where manufacturing or assembly plant is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where manufacturing or assembly plant is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The operation must be entirely indoors, with limited outdoor storage screened and situated to the side or rear;
(ii)
Outdoor storage must be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way, public parking areas, and abutting properties using a minimum ten-foot structural buffer, which meets the requirements of section 90-139; and
(iii)
Hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
d.
Tree service, log splitting, chipping, and shredding operation.
1.
Defined. An operation that processes and/or stores trees or limbs on-site. Storage for a period not to exceed two weeks.
2.
Use standards. Where tree service, etc. is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where tree service, etc. is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
Where within 1,000 feet of a residential use or residentially-zoned property, the hours of operation can begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and end no later than 11:00 p.m., including all deliveries.
(ii)
A minimum 50-foot wide undisturbed buffer must be maintained along all external property lines. If existing vegetation is not sufficient to meet the width or opacity, the buffer may be revegetated.
(3)
Self-service storage
a.
Defined. Facilities providing separate storage areas for personal or business use designed to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal property. Limited accommodations for overnight managerial or security staff are allowed if associated with the main office. Overnight accommodations in a storage unit are prohibited. Self-service storage includes the following:
1.
Indoor multi-story storage.
2.
Mini-warehouse.
3.
Warehouse, self-service.
b.
Use standards. Where self-service storage is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where self-service storage is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
The minimum lot size is two acres;
2.
All storage must be contained within a fully-enclosed building; however, the storage of boats, recreation vehicles, or other similar vehicles are allowed subject to the provisions for outdoor storage in subsection 90-147(i)(10).
3.
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all shared property lines, except when abutting another self-storage facility or industrial use.
(4)
Vehicle service and repair.
a.
Defined. Repair and service to passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks, and other consumer motor vehicles, such as motorcycles, boats, and recreational vehicles. Vehicle service and repair includes the following:
1.
Car wash.
2.
Vehicle repair (minor).
3.
Vehicle repair (major).
4.
Vehicle repair (commercial vehicle).
b.
Car wash.
1.
Defined. A facility with mechanical or hand-operated equipment used for cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles.
2.
Use standards. Where a car wash is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where a car wash is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
No car wash is permitted within 50 feet of a ground floor residential use (measured from the residential lot line to the lot line of the car wash facility);
(ii)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use; and
(iii)
When abutting a ground floor residential use, the car wash facility cannot operate before 6:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m.
c.
Vehicle repair (minor).
1.
Defined. A facility where minor vehicle repair and service is conducted. Includes audio and alarm installation, custom accessories, quick lubrication facilities, minor scratch and dent repair, emissions testing, bed liner installation, and glass repair or replacement.
2.
Use standards. Where minor vehicle repair is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where minor vehicle repair is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles is allowed in accordance with subsection 90-147(i)(10).
(ii)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use; and
(iii)
The dismantling of vehicles for salvage and the storage of impounded vehicles is not allowed.
d.
Vehicle repair (major).
1.
Defined. A facility where general vehicle repair is conducted, including transmission, brake, muffler, and tire shops, along with body and paint shops.
2.
Use standards. Where major vehicle repair is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where major vehicle repair is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles is allowed in accordance with subsection 90-147(i)(10).
(ii)
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use; and
(iii)
The dismantling of vehicles for salvage and the storage of impounded vehicles is not allowed.
e.
Vehicle repair (commercial vehicle)
1.
Defined. A facility conducting repair, service, washing, or accessory installation for commercial vehicles, including box trucks, 18-wheelers, and construction or other heavy equipment.
2.
Use standards. Where commercial vehicle repair is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to the requirements of section 90-180 and the standards below. Where vehicle repair (commercial vehicle) is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
(i)
The outdoor overnight storage of vehicles is allowed in accordance with section 90-147(i)(10).
(ii)
A minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use; and
(iii)
The dismantling of vehicles for salvage and the storage of impounded vehicles is not allowed.
(5)
Warehouse and distribution.
a.
Defined. A facility involved in the storage or movement of goods for themselves or other firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer with little on-site sales activity to customers. Warehouse and distribution includes the following:
1.
Bulk storage, including nonflammable liquids, cold storage plants, frozen food lockers, household moving, and general freight storage.
2.
Distribution of products and merchandise.
3.
Parcel services.
4.
Transfer and storage businesses where there are no individual storage areas or where employees are the primary movers of the goods to be stored or transferred.
5.
Trailer storage, drop-off lot.
b.
Use standards. Where warehouse and distribution is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
Outdoor areas used for the loading, parking, and storage of tractor trailers must be screened using a minimum 20-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 along all shared property lines, except for an abutting warehouse and distribution or light industrial use, and along all public or private rights-of-way.
(i)
Accessory uses.
(1)
Ancillary dwelling.
a.
Define. A structure, other than a tiny house, intended for residential use such as a guest home, caretaker's quarters, or cottage which is located on a lot or tract of land that also contains a separate main or principal dwelling.
b.
Use standards. Where allowed as a limited use, an ancillary dwelling must meet the requirements of section 90-52.
(2)
Car wash.
a.
Defined. An accessory facility with mechanical equipment used for cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles, typically associated with a convenience store with fuel pumps.
b.
Use standards. Where an accessory car wash is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
Only one single-bay automatic (not self-service) car wash that is completely enclosed except for openings necessary to allow entry and exit of vehicles is allowed;
2.
No car wash is permitted within 50 feet of a ground floor residential use (measured from the residential lot line to the lot line of the car wash facility);
3.
A minimum ten-foot structural buffer meeting the requirements of section 90-139 must be established along all lot lines abutting a ground floor residential use; and
4.
When abutting a ground floor residential use, the car wash facility cannot operate before 6:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m.
(3)
Drive-thru facility.
a.
Defined. A facility at which the customer is served while sitting in a vehicle, typically associated with drive-thru restaurants, banks, and pharmacies.
b.
Use standards. Where a drive-thru is allowed as a conditional use, it may be permitted subject to section 90-180 and the standards below, where a drive-thru is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
No drive-thru window, lane, or order box is permitted within 50 feet of a ground floor residential use (measured from the residential lot line to the closest point of the drive-thru lane); and
2.
In ETCOD, CPOD, and NPOD, all drive-thru areas, including but not limited to menu boards, stacking lanes, trash receptacles, ordering box, drive up windows, and other objects associated with the drive-thru, must be located to the side or rear of the building. Drive-thru windows and lanes may not be placed between a public street (not including an alley) and the associated building.
(4)
Helicopter landing area.
a.
Defined. A designated area, either at ground level or elevated on a structure, used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters.
(5)
Home occupation.
a.
Defined. A business or profession carried on by an occupant of a dwelling as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to the main residential use.
b.
Use standards. Where a home occupation is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the requirements of section 90-142.
(6)
Ice vending machine.
a.
Defined. A freestanding machine that produces and dispenses bulk ice, usually for a fee.
(7)
Mobile vending.
a.
Defined. Retail sales from a self-contained, purpose-built food service, retail, or service establishment that is vehicle-mounted or wheeled and is capable of being readily moveable.
b.
Use standards. Where mobile vending is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the specific standards for mobile vendors found in section 90-143(d).
(8)
Outdoor dining.
a.
Defined. A seating area specifically designed for the consumption of food or drink, typically associated with a restaurant or coffee shop and which is either located entirely outside the walls of the building, enclosed on two sides or less by walls, with or without a solid roof cover, or enclosed on three sides by walls without a solid roof cover.
b.
Use standards. Where outdoor dining is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
The outdoor dining area must not interfere with the circulation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Outdoor dining cannot be located in a required parking space;
2.
The hours of operation for the outdoor dining area may not be greater than those of the principal use; and
3.
The outdoor dining area counts as part of the overall square footage of the restaurant when calculating parking requirements.
(9)
Outdoor display.
a.
Defined. The outdoor display of products actively available for sale. The outdoor placement of propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink, or similar vending machines, including outdoor sales areas for sheds, building supplies, plants, lawn mowers, barbeques, and other similar items, is considered outdoor display. Outdoor display does not include merchandise or material in boxes, in crates, or other kinds of shipping containers (see limited outdoor storage).
b.
Use standards. Where outdoor display is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
Outdoor display is only allowed with a permitted nonresidential use;
2.
Outdoor display must take place under a permanent canopy, roofline, or enclosure extending from the primary façade, however, outdoor sales areas for sheds, building supplies, plants, lawn mowers, barbeques, and other similar items are exempt from this requirement;
3.
Outdoor display may not exceed six feet in height;
4.
Outdoor display must be removed and placed inside a fully-enclosed building at the end of each business day, except propane gas storage racks, ice storage bins, soft drink or similar vending machines, and outdoor sales areas for sheds, building supplies, lawn mowers, barbeques, and other similar items may remain outside overnight; and
5.
Outdoor display may not encroach upon any pedestrian walkway, sidewalk, or public right-of-way. Outdoor display may not impair the ability of pedestrians to use the sidewalk. There must be a minimum of six feet of clear distance of sidewalk at all times.
(10)
Outdoor storage, limited.
a.
Defined. Limited outdoor storage includes, but is not limited to:
1.
The overnight outdoor storage of vehicles awaiting repair;
2.
The outdoor storage of merchandise or material in boxes, in crates, on pallets, or other kinds of shipping containers;
3.
The outdoor storage of vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, or other similar vehicles at a storage facility.
b.
Use standards. Where limited outdoor storage is allowed as a limited use, it is subject to the following:
1.
Limited outdoor storage may not be more than 12 feet in height and must be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way, public parking areas, and abutting ground floor residential uses.; and
2.
Vehicles awaiting repair may be stored up to 14 days within the screened storage area.
(11)
Outdoor storage, general.
a.
Defined. General outdoor storage includes, but is not limited to:
1.
The outdoor storage of contractors equipment or construction machinery;
2.
The outdoor storage of fleet vehicles;
3.
The outdoor storage of soil, mulch, stone, lumber, pipe, steel, salvage or recycled materials, and other similar merchandise, material, or equipment.
b.
Use standards. Where general outdoor storage is allowed as a limited use, it must be fully screened from view from the public right-of-way, public parking areas, and abutting properties using a minimum ten-foot structural buffer, which meets the requirements of section 90-139.
(12)
Parking, on-site.
a.
Defined. Parking provided on-site to serve a principal use of the site.
(Ord. No. 17-03 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-21-2017; Ord. No. 19-03 , § 1(Exh. A), 4-2-2019; Ord. No. 19-13 , § 1(Exh. A), 8-6-2019; Ord. No. 20-02 , § 1(Exh. A), 2-4-2020; Ord. No. 22-03 , § 1(Exh. A), 5-17-2022)
Secs. 90-148—90-175. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - ADMINISTRATION[3]

Footnotes:
--- (3) ---
Cross reference— Officers and employees, § 2-186 et seq.

Sec. 90-176. - Application of chapter.
Except as otherwise provided, no structure or land shall, after the adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, be used, and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered or moved unless it is done in conformity with the requirements set forth in this chapter for the district in which it is located. In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter, such provisions shall be considered minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the county.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-80)
Sec. 90-177. - Questions; interpretation; appeals.
All questions of interpretation and enforcement of this chapter shall first be presented to the director; any aggrieved party may appeal a decision of the director by first appealing to the planning commission and then to the board of commissioners.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-81)
Sec. 90-178. - Enforcement.
(a)
Enforcing officer. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the director. The director and his designee shall have the right to enter upon any premises for the purpose of making inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out the duties of the director in the enforcement of this chapter. In addition, the director or his designee shall issue building permits, and make and maintain records thereof, issue certificates of occupancy, and make and maintain records thereof, and conduct inspections as set forth in this chapter, and other such inspections as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(b)
Building permits required. It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for, or the construction of, any building or structure, including accessory structures, or to commence the moving, alteration or repair of any structure, including accessory structures, until the county director has issued a building permit for such work which contains a statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such structure conforms with the provisions of this chapter in all respects.
(c)
Application for building permit. Application for a building permit shall be made in writing to the director, on forms provided for such purpose. It shall be unlawful for the director to approve any plans, or issue a building permit for any excavation or construction until he or his designee has inspected such plans in detail, and found them to be in conformity with this chapter. The director may require that an application for a building permit for excavation, construction, moving or alteration be accompanied by a plan or plat drawn to scale, and showing the following, in sufficient detail, to enable the director to ascertain whether the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration is in conformance with this chapter:
(1)
The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot to be built upon.
(2)
The shape, height, use and location on the lot of buildings or structures to be erected or altered.
(3)
The size, location and use of any existing building or structure on the lot.
(4)
If residential, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate.
(5)
The setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots.
(6)
The layout of off-street parking and unloading spaces.
(7)
The signature of the county health officer approving the proposed location of the septic tank and field lines, provided public sewerage is not available at such location.
(8)
Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential in determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
If the proposed excavation, construction, moving or alteration, as set forth in the application for a building permit, is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the director shall issue a building permit for such excavation, construction, moving or alteration. If the application for a building permit is not approved, the director shall state in writing on the application the cause for such disapproval. Issuance of a building permit shall not be construed as waiving any provision of this chapter, and building permits shall be void after 12 months from date of issue of such building permit, unless substantial progress on the project has been made by that time.
(d)
Certificate of occupancy. No land or building, or other structure or part thereof, erected, moved or altered in its use shall be occupied or used until the building official for the county, the county engineer or the director has signed a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued only upon compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is not granted upon request, the building official, the engineer or the director shall state in writing the reasons why the certificate of occupancy was not granted.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-82; Ord. No. 99-14, § 1, 11-16-1999)
Sec. 90-179. - Public hearings/notice/appeals.
(a)
Additional duties of the planning commission. In addition to the duties otherwise set forth in this chapter, the planning commission shall:
(1)
Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination or refusal made by the director or other administrative official in the carrying out or enforcement of any provision of this chapter.
(2)
Hear requests for interpretation of the zoning map, and for a decision on any special questions upon which the director is authorized to pass.
(3)
Hear and make recommendations to the board of commissioners for approval or disapproval of all variances within the terms of this chapter.
(4)
Grant temporary permits for mobile homes or travel trailers, as set forth in section 54-9.
(5)
Hear requests for minor waivers to building setbacks.
(6)
Hear requests for minor revisions to S-1 (Special), PUD (Planned Unit Development), PRD (Planned Residential Developments), or PDD (Planned Development District) zoning districts.
(b)
Appeals to the planning commission.
(1)
If such an appeal is taken by a party directly involved in the action or decision being appealed from (i.e. an applicant, property owner, etc.) it must be filed within 15 days after the date of occurrence of the action or decision being appealed from. If such an appeal is taken by a party not directly involved in the action or decision being appealed from (i.e. a person in opposition to the action or decision being appealed from, etc.) who might not have knowledge of the filing of an application or request for an action or decision being sought by an applicant or property owner, it must be filed within 15 days after the date of the posting of notice on a sign placed on the land in question or the publication of notice of a public hearing on the matter in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, whichever shall occur first.
(2)
The director shall transmit to the planning commission all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken, and shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to the planning commission in accordance with section 90-180(5) of Columbia County Code. Any party or person may appear at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney.
(3)
The scheduled hearing shall follow the procedures found at section 90-180(6) of the Columbia County Code.
(c)
Variances. A property owner or his designated representative, designated in writing and signed by the owner, may make application for a variance, using forms provided by the director. Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the director shall schedule a public hearing before the planning commission. The director shall advertise such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the public hearing, and shall erect, in a conspicuous place on the property in question, a sign giving public notice of the appeal at least 15, but no more than 45, days prior to the scheduled hearing. Notice of this public hearing shall be mailed to the applicant and owner of the property that is subject to the requested action. The planning commission shall consider and decide whether to recommend approval or disapproval of all applications for variances within 30 days after such public hearing, and in accordance with the standards set forth in this subsection. The public hearing shall follow procedures as outlined in section 90-180(6) of Columbia County Code. Variances from the terms of this chapter may be recommended by the planning commission in such individual hardship cases of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the planning commission based on the following:
(1)
There are special circumstances or conditions unique to the property that do not generally apply in the district.
(2)
The special circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant of any reasonable use of his land. Mere loss in value shall not justify a variance. There must be a deprivation of beneficial use of land.
(3)
Topographical or other conditions peculiar and particular to the site are such that strict adherence to the requirements of this chapter would cause the owner unnecessary hardship, and would not carry out the intent of this chapter, and that there is no feasible alternative to remedy the situation.
(4)
If granted, the variance shall be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this chapter, and shall not be injurious to the neighborhood or detrimental to the public welfare.
(5)
In reviewing an application for a variance, the burden of showing that the variance should be recommended and/or granted shall be upon the person applying for the variance.
(6)
When recommending a variance, the planning commission, or the board of commissioners, when granting a variance, may establish reasonable conditions concerning the use of such property, and may establish an expiration date for such variance.
(7)
Any variance recommended and/or authorized is to be set forth in writing in the minutes of the planning commission and the board of commissioners, as the case may be, with the reasons for which the departure was justified, and the conditions under which the variance was granted.
(d)
Limitations on variances. A variance shall not be considered or granted from the conditions of approval imposed on a property through a zoning change granted by the board of commissioners; nor may a minimum lot size required in the applicable zoning district be reduced; nor may any use of land or structures be granted that is not permitted by the zoning district that is applicable to the property.
(e)
Minor waivers. The director or his designee may approve minor setback waivers when the request contains all of the following elements:
(1)
The request is for a maximum of ten percent reduction of the required front, side and rear minimum building line.
(2)
No side or rear setback can be less than five feet on any residential lot for detached homes.
(3)
All minimum building codes are met.
(4)
No utility services will be affected.
The public hearing shall follow noticing requirements as outlined in section 90-180(5) and hearing procedures as outlined in section 90-180(6). Approvals or denials must be in writing and sent to the applicant.
(f)
Minor revisions. A minor revision, as outlined in section 90-182(d) of Columbia County Code, may be requested by the owner or their designated representative on forms provided by the director. The public hearing shall follow noticing as outlined in section 90-180(5) and procedures as outlined in section 90-180(6) of Columbia County Code. An approval or denial of a minor revision must be in writing and sent to the applicant and owner of the property in question.
(g)
Appeals from decisions made by the planning commission.
(1)
An appeal from a decision by the planning commission shall be made to the board of commissioners. Such an appeal may be made by any person aggrieved, or by any governmental officer, department, board or bureau affected by any decision of the planning commission, based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this chapter. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the director a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for such appeal.
(2)
If such an appeal is taken by a party directly involved in the action or decision being appealed from (i.e. an applicant, property owner, etc.) it must be filed within 30 days after the date of occurrence of the action or decision being appealed from.
(3)
If such an appeal is taken by a party not directly involved in the action or decision being appealed from (i.e. a person in opposition to the action or decision being appealed from, etc.) who might not have knowledge of the filing of an application or request for an action or decision being sought by an applicant or property owner, it must be filed within 30 days after the date of the posting of notice on a sign placed on the land in question or the publication of notice of a public hearing on the matter in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, whichever shall occur first.
(4)
The director shall transmit to the board of commissioners all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken, and the board of commissioners shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to the board of commissioners. The public hearing shall follow the notice requirements found in subsections 90-180(5) and procedures as outlined in section 90-180(6) of Columbia County Code.
(5)
Such appeals from a decision by the planning commission to the board of commissioners are handled pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter of the Columbia County Code.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-83; Ord. No. 11-18, § 1, 11-1-2011; Ord. No. 23-05 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-20-2023)
Sec. 90-180. - Zoning changes; ordinance amendments.
The board of commissioners may from time to time, amend, supplement or change the boundaries of the zoning districts established in this chapter, approve a conditional use on a property or change the provisions of this chapter. Any proposed amendments, supplements or changes shall first be submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation. A request to change the zoning district boundaries, or establish a conditional use, may be initiated by the owner of property that would be affected by the change or by the planning commission or the board of commissioners. The adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, or any amendment thereto, may only be initiated by the planning commission or the board of commissioners.
(1)
Rezoning of property initiated by owner. The following procedures shall be required when a request is made for a change in the zoning district boundaries or the establishment of a conditional use by the owner of the property to be affected:
a.
Any property owner acting in person or through his representative, duly authorized in writing and filed with the director, desiring a zoning change affecting his property shall first file an application requesting such change with the director. Any change in ownership of the property following the filing of such application shall not affect the continuation of the consideration of the application unless the new owner shall request and be allowed to withdraw the application as provided in this subsection. The prior owner of the property who filed the application shall, upon transfer of title of such property, have no further right to request withdrawal of the application.
b.
Per the notice requirements set forth in section 90-180(5), after receiving the petition, the director shall, in writing, inform the applicant of the date on which a public hearing will be held before the planning commission to consider the zoning change. See subsection 90-180(4) notice requirements for proposed zoning decisions related to or allowing the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for treatment of drug dependency
c.
Notice of the scheduled public hearing shall follow section 90-180(5), except as provided in subsection 90-180(4).
e.
The public hearing shall be conducted by the planning commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
f.
The planning commission shall make a recommendation to the board of commissioners stating its approval, approval with conditions, disapproval or such other recommendation as it deems appropriate. Such recommendation shall be made by the planning commission within 30 days of the public hearing or the requested zoning change shall be deemed to have been recommended for approval by the planning commission.
g.
An application may not be withdrawn by the applicant after the public hearing has been advertised; however, the planning commission or the board of commissioners may, by a majority vote, allow an application to be withdrawn without prejudice.
h.
Once advertised, an application may not be amended, except to offer more restrictive conditions or to change the request to a more restrictive zoning district.
i.
Following receipt of the recommendation of the planning commission, or the expiration of 30 days following the public hearing without there being a recommendation by the planning commission, the board of commissioners shall consider the requested zoning change at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and may approve the request, approve the request with conditions, approve rezoning of the property, but to a more restrictive zoning district, deny the request, defer action to a later specified time or remand the matter to the planning commission for further consideration and recommendation. At the request of the property owner, the board of commissioners may allow withdrawal of the application with or without prejudice.
j.
Once denied by the board of commissioners, no application change shall be considered for the same property until at least six months shall have passed since action was taken by the board of commissioners.
(2)
Rezoning of property initiated by county. The following procedures shall be followed when a change in zoning district boundaries or the establishment of a conditional use is initiated by the planning commission or the board of commissioners:
a.
The planning commission or the board of commissioners, by majority vote of those voting at a regularly scheduled meeting, may initiate a zoning change.
b.
The director shall schedule a public hearing before the planning commission to be held on the proposed change. At least 15, but not more than 45, days prior to the scheduled public hearing, the director shall advertise such hearing as set forth in section 90-180(5), except as provided in subsection 90-180(4), such notice may additionally be published by posting such notice in a conspicuous place on the website of the county, as applicable, or on a common state-wide website.
c.
The public hearing shall be conducted by the planning commission in accordance with the procedures contained in this section.
d.
The planning commission shall make a recommendation to the board of commissioners stating its approval, approval with conditions, disapproval or such other recommendation as it deems appropriate. Such recommendation shall be made by the planning commission within 30 days of the public hearing or the proposed zoning change shall be deemed to have been recommended for approval by the planning commission.
e.
Following receipt of the recommendation of the planning commission, or the expiration of 30 days following the public hearing without there being a recommendation by the planning commission, the board of commissioners shall consider the proposed zoning change at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and may approve the change, approve the change with conditions, approve rezoning of the property but to a more restrictive zoning district, deny the change, defer action to a later specified time or remand the matter to the planning commission for further consideration and recommendation.
f.
If any portion of the zoning change is denied by the board of commissioners, the same change may not be considered for the same property until expiration of at least six months immediately following the denial of such zoning change.
(3)
Text amendments. The following procedures shall be followed for the adoption of any amendment to the text of this chapter:
a.
The planning commission or the board of commissioners, by majority vote of those voting at a regularly scheduled meeting, may initiate a change in the text of this chapter.
b.
The director shall schedule a public hearing before the planning commission to be held on the proposed amendment to this chapter. At least 15, but not more than 45, days prior to the scheduled public hearing, the director shall advertise such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
c.
The public hearing shall be conducted by the planning commission in accordance with the procedures contained in this section.
d.
The planning commission shall make a recommendation to the board of commissioners stating its approval, approval with changes, disapproval or such other recommendation as it deems appropriate. Such recommendation shall be made by the planning commission within 30 days of the public hearing, or the proposed amendment shall be deemed to have been recommended for approval by the planning commission.
e.
Following receipt of the recommendation of the planning commission, or the expiration of 30 days following the public hearing without there being a recommendation by the planning commission, the board of commissioners shall consider the proposed amendment at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and may approve the amendment in whole or in part, approve the amendment in whole or in part with changes, deny the amendment in whole or in part, defer action to a later specified time or remand the matter to the planning commission for further consideration and recommendation.
(4)
Rezoning of property for single family residential uses to be zoned for multi-family residential uses initiated by the county or text amendments seeking to revise one or more zoning classifications or definitions relating to single-family residential uses of property so as to authorize multifamily uses; Rezoning of property related to the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for treatment of drug dependency.
a.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, rezoning decisions or text amendments in this subsection shall comply with the following notice requirements.
b.
If the rezoning will permit property zoned for single family residential uses to be zoned for multi-family residential uses of property, then the public hearing shall follow the requirements in subsection (4)(c) of this section.
c.
When a text amendment seeks to revise one or more zoning classifications or definitions relating to single-family residential uses of property so as to authorize multi-family uses of property pursuant to such classification or definitions, or to grant blanket permission, under certain or all circumstances, for property owners to deviate from the existing zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning, the amendment must be adopted in the following manner:
1.
The text amendment shall be adopted at two regular meetings of the local government making the zoning decision, during a period of not less than 21 days apart; and
2.
Prior to the first meeting provided for in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, at least two public hearings shall be held on the proposed action. Such public hearings shall be held at least three months and not more than nine months prior to the date of final action on the text amendment. Furthermore, at least one of the public hearings must be held between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. The hearings required by this paragraph shall be in addition to any hearing required under this section. The notice of the public hearings shall be provided by:
i.
Posting notice on each affected premises in the manner prescribed by section 90-179(b); provided, however, that when more than 500 parcels are affected, in which case posting notice is required every 500 feet in the affected area; and
ii.
Publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of each hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing.
Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the text amendment relates to or will authorize multi-family uses or give blanket permission to the property owner to deviate from the zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning of property in classification previously relating to single-family residential uses. The published notice shall be at least nine column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. The notice shall state that a copy of the proposed amendment is on file in the office of the county clerk and in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county of the legal situs of the local government for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The local government shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment, at no cost.
d.
If a proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for treatment of drug dependency, the public hearing shall be held at least six months and not more than nine months prior to the final action on the zoning decision. The director shall give notice of the public hearing per this section. Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will allow the location or relocation of a halfway house, drug rehabilitation center, or other facility for the treatment of drug dependency. The published notice shall be at least six column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper.
(5)
Public hearing noticing requirements. Public hearing notice requirements shall be as follows:
a.
Notice of public hearings where the planning commission, or other quasi-judicial body, serves as decision maker.
1.
In all matters for which the planning commission, or other quasi-judicial body under O.C.G.A. 36-66-4(g), is the decision-maker, the county shall advertise the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall also be mailed to the applicant and, as applicable, the owner of subject property.
2.
If the request is for an appeal of a decision by the director, the director shall erect, in a conspicuous place on the property in question or on the right-of-way of the nearest public road if the property does not front on a public road, a sign giving public notice of the appeal at least 30 days prior to the scheduled hearing. Any party or person may appear at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney.
3.
The public hearing shall follow the procedures outlined in subsection 90-180(6) of the Columbia County Code.
b.
Notice of public hearings where the board of commissioners serves as decision maker.
1.
In all matters for which the board of commissioners is the decision-maker, including zoning matters where the public hearing is before the planning commission as a recommending body, the county shall advertise the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. Notice of the hearing shall also be mailed to the applicant and, as applicable, the owner of subject property.
2.
The director shall erect, in a conspicuous place on the property in question or on the right-of-way of the nearest public road if the property does not front on a public road, a sign giving public notice of the appeal at least 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing. Any party or person may appear at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney.
3.
The public hearing shall follow the procedures outlined in subsection 90-180(6) of the Columbia County Code.
(6)
Public hearing procedures. The public hearing held by the planning commission for zoning changes, variances, variations, appeals, temporary use authorizations, provisional home occupations, minor waivers, minor revisions or text amendments shall be called, and notice published, as provided in this section. The public hearing shall be conducted in the following manner:
a.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided pursuant to section 90-180(5).
b.
The public hearing shall be convened at the scheduled time and place by the chairman, the vice-chairman or the chairman's designee, who shall preside.
c.
The director shall submit each proposed zoning change, variances, variations, appeals, temporary use authorizations, provisional home occupations, minor waiver, minor revision, or text amendment to the planning commission, together with a report of the director's findings and recommendation.
d.
No person in attendance at such hearing shall speak unless first formally recognized by the chairman. Any member of the general public may speak at a hearing, but the applicant shall be afforded the first opportunity to speak. Upon rising to speak, each person recognized shall state their name and home address. An equal minimum time period for proponents and opponents of a request shall be afforded with a minimum time period of no less than ten minutes per side. Either side may cede their time during the hearing if they so desire.
e.
Following the public hearing on each zoning change, variances, variations, appeals, temporary use authorizations, provisional home occupations, minor waiver, minor revision or text amendment, the planning commission shall make its recommendation or decision as applicable by majority vote of those voting.
(7)
Standards for zoning change or text amendment. The planning commission and the board of commissioners shall consider the following in considering any zoning proposal which would result in a change in the boundary of a zoning district, the establishment of a conditional use or an amendment to the text of this chapter, giving due weight or priority to those factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of each proposal:
a.
Whether the zoning proposal will permit a use that is suitable in view of the zoning and development of adjacent and nearby property.
b.
Whether the zoning proposal will adversely affect the existing use or usability of adjacent or nearby property.
c.
Whether the zoning proposal is compatible with the purpose and intent of the growth management plan.
d.
Whether there are substantial reasons why the property cannot or should not be used as currently zoned.
e.
Whether the zoning proposal will result in a use that will or could cause an excessive or burdensome use of public facilities or services, including, but not limited to, existing streets and transportation facilities, schools, water or sewer utilities and police or fire protection.
f.
Whether the zoning proposal is supported by new or changing conditions not anticipated by the growth management plan or reflected in the existing zoning on the property or surrounding properties.
g.
Whether the zoning proposal reflects a reasonable balance between the promotion of the public health, safety, morality or general welfare against the right to unrestricted use of property.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-84; Ord. No. 23-06 , § 1(Exh. A), 6-20-2023)
Sec. 90-181. - Government property.
Property owned by the county, the board of commissioners, the county school district, the county board of education, the state or the United States government, and used or held for use for governmental purposes, is not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-84.1)
Sec. 90-182. - Additional requirements for special, planned unit development and planned development districts.
(a)
Applicability. The provisions of this section are applicable to property upon designation of the site as a special, planned unit development (PUD), or planned development district (PDD) by the board of commissioners pursuant to section 90-180.
1.
A special, planned unit development, or planned development district is established by rezoning the property and adopting a development plan. The development plan establishes regulations for the use, development, improvement and maintenance of the property, and must be adopted in accordance with section 90-180.
2.
The development plan establishes the permitted, conditionally permitted and accessory uses; site plan, including the site area; street layout, including typical street sections; pedestrian facilities; open space areas; number of residential units by type; square footage of residential and non-residential units; preliminary landscaping plan, development regulations; architectural standards; phasing plan, if applicable; statement regarding consistency with the comprehensive plan and all other applicable plans; traffic study; other information necessary for the substantive and environmental review of the proposed project; and any other information deemed necessary by the planning services director.
(b)
Permitted uses. A listing of permitted uses within a particular special, planned unit development, or planned development district shall be adopted as part of the regulations applying to that district only. The uses permitted shall be consistent with the list of permitted uses in section 90-50 (residential) and section 90-97 (commercial). Industrial uses are prohibited within special, planned unit development, and planned development districts.
(c)
District regulations. The following regulations apply to designated uses and development in special, planned unit development, or planned development districts, other provisions in this article to the contrary notwithstanding:
1.
The development plan shall specify a phasing plan for all amenities to be provided within the development. The amenity phasing plan shall correspond with the overall development phasing schedule, and shall provide for the reasonable completion of amenities to maximize enjoyment by residents.
2.
The following site development characteristics shall be determined and set in the approved development plan:
(i)
Minimum lot area(s);
(ii)
Minimum lot width(s);
(iii)
Size(s) and location(s) of yard(s) and setback(s);
(iv)
Maximum impervious surface ratio for individual lots and the development as a whole;
(v)
Minimum and/or maximum building density, including total number of residential units and non-residential square footage permitted, broken down by type;
(vi)
Maximum structure height(s);
(vii)
Open space shall be provided with all PUDs, and minimum open space shall be set by the development plan. For PUDs incorporating multi-family residential dwellings, a portion of the open space, complementary to the proposed design and lifestyle features of the proposed development, shall be reserved as common open space that shall be designated for the recreational or leisurely use by residents.
(viii)
Off-street and on-street parking and loading needs and dimensions;
(ix)
Internal traffic calming strategies;
(x)
Location, size, and/or amount of bufferyard(s), screening, landscaping, and tree save areas;
(xi)
Layout of lots, streets, and any other infrastructure, including bicycle and pedestrian facilities, serving the development, if applicable;
(xii)
Spacing and species of street trees to be installed;
(xiii)
Development-specific architectural design criteria;
(xiv)
Location, size, and design of any permanent signage;
(xv)
Location of and specifications for site access and internal traffic circulation; and
(xvi)
Any other site-specific prescription(s) deemed necessary for the development of the site, as proposed.
3.
Projects shall meet the following design requirements:
(i)
The minimum side building setback shall be ten feet for all single-family detached units, and on the detached side of all single-family attached units. This minimum notwithstanding, the character of a proposed (or "the proposed" or "a particular") planned residential development may justify smaller side setbacks. Certain development types, including, but not limited to traditional neighborhood development (TND), pocket neighborhoods, and some residential infill solutions may benefit from the use of smaller setbacks to achieve the development concept. The board of commissioners may, where justified by the development concept, approve minimum side building setbacks below ten feet.
(ii)
The minimum rear building setback will be ten feet.
(iii)
Residential driveways shall be a minimum of 20 feet long between the garage and sidewalk or back of curb (where sidewalks are not present).
(iv)
Streets shall be designed as a hierarchy of street types in an interconnected pattern.
a.
Interconnecting sidewalks with a minimum width of five feet shall be installed on both sides of all streets, and shall meet Public Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) requirements, latest edition, at all street intersections. A walking trail with a minimum width of eight feet may be installed in lieu of sidewalks along one side of major neighborhood streets where the installation of sidewalks is unnecessary or impractical, as determined by the director of planning services.
b.
Sidewalk or walking trail locations shall be shown on street types.
c.
Major neighborhood streets shall converge on neighborhood centers, parks, landmarks, schools, etc.
d.
Streets and alleys shall terminate at other streets within the development, and shall be "stubbed out" at the edge of the project site to provide linkages with future development. Connections shall be made to "stub outs" on adjacent parcels. The use of dead-end streets and culs-de-sac should be minimized and must be approved by planning commission in cases where site topography necessitates their use.
(v)
Street trees shall be planted on both sides of all streets (except alleys).
a.
Street trees shall be planted within a tree lawn with a minimum width of six feet, either between the back of the curb and the sidewalk, or between the sidewalk and the building.
b.
Perpetual maintenance of street trees shall be specified in the development plan.
c.
Required street trees shall be installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the building to which the street trees closest relate.
d.
Existing tree canopy may substitute for the installation of street trees, where practical, and may be approved by the director of planning services.
(vi)
Roadway design and stormwater standards shall adhere to environmentally sensitive and aesthetically pleasing best management practices and development standards.
(vii)
A minimum of ten percent of the usable project area shall be permanently allocated to open space.
a.
A portion of the required open space shall be centrally located within the development. Location and approximate size of the open space area shall be designated and approved by the planning commission as part of conceptual approval.
b.
For developments under ten acres, the open space requirement may be satisfied by an existing or proposed public park or trail network that is within 1,300 feet of the development boundary.
c.
Stormwater infrastructure may not be counted toward the required open space, unless designed as part of a low-impact system that utilizes bio-swales and natural recharge areas.
d.
Utility easements may not be counted toward the required open space, unless utilized as part of a common trail network or other amenity.
(viii)
Specific architectural design criteria shall be adopted as part of the overall plan for the site.
(ix)
Maximum impervious cover for individual building lots shall be specified in the development plan, with stormwater infrastructure designed accordingly.
(x)
Vegetated bufferyards of a minimum width of 15 feet shall be maintained along a development's exterior boundaries.
a.
Bufferyards shall be left undisturbed throughout development.
b.
Bufferyards may count as part of the required open space only if located outside of a building lot.
4.
Additional criteria for multi-family and single-family attached development:
(i)
Density counts relate to buildable site area.
(ii)
Fifty percent of single-family attached units must have access to an attached or detached garage. If detached, the garage must be located to the rear of the primary structure.
5.
The site development characteristics prescribed by the approved development plan associated with a special, planned unit development, or planned development district shall supplant any conflicting standards for site development established in the Columbia County Code of Ordinances. Any site development characteristics not prescribed in the approved plans for a special, planned unit development, or planned development district shall be subject to the minimum standards, if applicable, established in the Columbia County Code of Ordinances.
(d)
Revisions.
1.
Minor changes. Changes proposed in writing by the applicant that do not alter district boundaries and that involve revision of minor characteristics of a PRD, such as relocation of driveways, façade details, drainage structures, number of required parking spaces, and other features that do not materially affect the approved plan concept or violate any other applicable regulations, may be approved by the planning commission. Variations to residential density less than five percent of the initially-approved density constitute minor changes.
2.
Major changes. Changes proposed in writing by the applicant that alter district boundaries or that materially affect the characteristics or functionality of the PRD, such as changes in the general layout of buildings and their environs on the site, changes to the district regulations, or landscaping shall be submitted under the provisions of section 90-180 pertaining to zoning changes and ordinance amendments, and must be approved by the board of commissioners. Variations to residential density that are five percent or greater of the initially-approved density constitute major changes.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-85; Ord. No. 06-01, §§ 2—5, 3-7-2006; Ord. No. 09-01, §§ 1, 2, 1-20-2009; Ord. No. 09-02, § 4, 6-2-2009; Ord. No. 11-09, § 1(Exh. A), 3-1-2011; Ord. No. 15-20, § 1(Exh. A), 6-16-2015)
Sec. 90-183. - Review of certain zoning approvals.
At least once each calendar year, the director shall report to the board of commissioners all properties upon which no development activity, building construction or use of the land, buildings or structures, as authorized by zoning approval, has commenced within five years of such zoning approval or the approval of this chapter as amended and restated, whichever is the latest. The board of commissioners, in its discretion, may initiate action to rezone any such property to its former zoning district or any other zoning district deemed suitable by the board of commissioners, under the procedures set forth in section 90-180(2).
(Code 1979, § 2-16-85.1)
Sec. 90-184. - Filing fees.
The board of commissioners may establish, by resolution, a schedule of filing fees to be paid upon the filing of an application for a change of zoning, variance, rezoning for existing nonconforming use, building permit or other approval, as provided for in this article. The schedule of filing fees then in effect shall be posted in the offices of the county where such applications are filed, and shall be provided to any person upon request. The board of commissioners may amend the schedule of established filing fees, or add additional filing fees from time to time as it shall deem appropriate. All such filing fees shall be due and payable upon the filing of the application requiring the payment of such fee, and such application shall not be deemed complete and ready for processing until such filing fee has been paid. In establishing the amount of such filing fees, the board of commissioners shall set such fees at an amount necessary to reimburse the county for the costs incurred by it in processing, reviewing and acting upon such application as the board of commissioners, in its discretion, shall determine.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-86)
Sec. 90-185. - Provisions of chapter declared to be minimum requirements.
In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter, such provisions shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-87)
Sec. 90-186. - Complaints regarding violations.
Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint, stating fully the causes and basis of such complaint, shall be filed with the director. The director shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate such complaint, and take action thereon, as provided by this chapter.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-88)
Sec. 90-187. - Violation; penalties.
(a)
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or fails to comply with the requirements of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalties and costs as set forth in section 1-9. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains a violation of this chapter may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties set forth in this subsection.
(b)
If any building or structure is or is proposed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter, the director, county attorney or other appropriate authority of the county, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-89)
Sec. 90-188. - Repeal of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are repealed to the extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-91)
Sec. 90-189. - Effective date.
This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after June 1, 1996.
(Code 1979, § 2-16-92)
