Chapter 6 - BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-25; enforcement of minimum state construction codes, O.C.G.A. § 8-2-26.

Sec. 6-1. - Construction codes adopted by reference.
(a)
The following technical codes are adopted by reference and applicable throughout this jurisdiction:
(1)
International Building Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2010);
(2)
International Residential Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2011);
(3)
International Plumbing Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2011);
(4)
International Mechanical Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2011) and Errata to the January 1, 2007, Georgia State Amendments to the IMC;
(5)
International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2010);
(6)
National Electrical Code, 2008 edition, with Georgia Amendments (2009);
(7)
International Energy Conservation Code, 2009 edition, with Georgia Supplements and Amendments (2011);
(8)
International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia State Amendments (2009);
(9)
International Existing Building Code, 2006 edition, with Georgia State Amendments (2009).
(b)
All building construction shall conform to the latest edition of the building code in effect at the time such construction is authorized.
Sec. 6-2. - Plumbing.
All plumbing shall be done by or under the direction of trained plumbers licensed to operate in the county or other equally qualified plumbers from other parts of the state.
(Code 1981, § 13-102)
Sec. 6-3. - Electrical.
All electrical wiring for both power and lights, the installation of electrical services, circuit-feeders, service switches, lighting panels, switch and lighting openings, and the installation of fixtures shall comply with all of the requirements of the National Electrical Code. All electrical work shall be done by licensed electricians.
(Code 1981, § 13-103; Ord. of 3-30-1987, § 13-103)
Sec. 6-4. - General requirements.
Building requirements will be limited to such matters of improper construction which may endanger life or health, may be unsightly, or cause unnecessary inconvenience to neighbors. Particular attention is called to the following:
(1)
No exposed foundation piers will be permitted.
(2)
No corrugated iron clad or other similarly covered or enclosed buildings will be permitted.
(3)
No three-sided or open lean-to building may be constructed.
(4)
No outside toilet or privy may be placed upon the property.
(5)
No landscaping may be done until basic landscaping plan has been submitted and approved.
(6)
No large or important trees may be cut without the approval of the authority.
(7)
All buildings and roof colors must be of a pleasing and harmonious nature.
(8)
Concrete block walls, when neatly done and pleasingly painted or stuccoed will be acceptable for exterior wall finish.
(9)
Hollow tile when stuccoed, will also be acceptable.
(10)
Common brick, used or new, painted or unpainted, will be acceptable and are recommended for walls.
(11)
Approved shingles may be used in lieu of wood siding.
(12)
Wood siding shall be of a beveled edge type or vertical barn siding.
(13)
Thick butt asphalt shingles, clay or cement tile, slate shingles or white marble chip-type roofing may be used.
(14)
Carports shall, where possible, be placed away from the principal street so that the main view of the house will not be directly into a carport.
(15)
Kitchen and service entries shall be so designed that they will not open directly upon a principal street, or be placed in an objectionable position relative to buildings on adjoining lots.
(16)
A service court or back yard area shall be carefully planned to provide hidden space for garbage and trash cans, wood piles, clothes drying area, and other similar domestic usages. Garbage and trash cans must be located within 25 feet of nearest loading point for trash trucks.
(17)
Provide underground storage for fuel oil or LP gas in conformance with section 12-56.
(18)
Particular care shall be taken in the design and location of a detached building, such as a garage or servant's quarters, so that it will be in keeping with the main building in every way and shall be located to cause the least inconvenience to neighbors. No more than one detached service building shall be built upon any one building area.
(19)
Garages or servants' buildings may not be built and lived in prior to the building of the main residence structure.
(20)
The authority considers rooflines of particular importance. No unusually steep roof or rooflines that may make for unattractive appearance are desired.
(21)
The landscape plans shall provide for the parking of cars belonging to domestic servants, so that they will not be left on the streets for long periods of time.
(22)
Any proposed fences, boundary or patio walls, hedges or large specimen plants must receive prior approval of the authority. Upon approval of basic landscaping plans, no changes may be made that will change the location of or height of the main plants or hedges, without further approval.
(23)
The contractor shall have the approval of the building inspection department of the authority before pouring footing to enclose any plumbing of residential buildings.
(Code 1981, § 13-104)
Sec. 6-5. - Miscellaneous specifications.
(a)
Construction hardware. All nails, bolts and construction hardware shall be of nonferrous or galvanized metal to prevent rusting in the salt atmosphere.
(b)
Flashing material. All roof, window and through wall flashing shall be copper or copper back paper, aluminum or hot dipped galvanized metal. Untreated sheet metal will not hold up in a seaside location.
(c)
Floor slabs on grade. Concrete floor slab on grade shall have waterproofed membrane under and should have a layer of gravel or cinders under to provide good drainage and to prevent moisture absorption. Concrete shall have integral-type waterproofing admixture.
(d)
Termite and rot fungi protection. All substructure lumber shall be pressure creosoted, marine Celcure treated or other equal wood preservative treatment. All wood below the first floor ceiling line shall be wood preservative treated with dip method, pressure treatment method using a good toxic preservative equal to Celcure, or penta wood preservative. Further, wherever possible, metal termite shields shall be installed according to standard practice. (See FHA code). Drip edge shall be installed on all roof eves and gable ends to prevent roof drip from wetting or saturating boards or other trim lumber. Last two roof sheathing boards shall be pressure treated lumber.
(e)
Paint trimming. All wood sash, wood exterior doors, wood screens or wood screen doors shall be wood preservative treated by one minute immersion method, using Armatol, Woodlife or penthachloraphenol crystals. After the treatment, they shall be primed thoroughly with white lead and oil before glazing and after-fitting. (Do not prime bottoms of doors and sash, leave unpainted for breathing.)
(f)
Foundations. In nearly all cases spread-type footings of concrete will be satisfactory. Because of the possibility of varying soil load capacities (soft spots) it is recommended that longitudinal reinforcing be added to the footings. Footings for large and heavy buildings shall be designed after making soil load bearing test.
(g)
Best Management Practices for use of Exterior Insulation and Finishing Systems (EIFS) or other expanded-polystyrene (EPS) construction practices. Any project that involves Exterior Insulation and Finishing Systems (EIFS) or otherwise utilizes expanded polystyrene (EPS, a.k.a. "Styrofoam") in any element of construction shall follow these specifications. If EPS materials are to be rasped, sanded, sawn, planed or otherwise worked in a way that produces loose debris of any size, all of the following measures shall be implemented.
(1)
Any rasping equipment shall be equipped with a vacuum.
(2)
The area around the activity shall be shielded on all sides, from six feet above the area being worked to ground level with construction netting to capture any loose debris.
(3)
At least one vacuum in addition to any vacuum rasps shall be on site with someone assigned to use it to immediately clean up any EPS debris that is not captured by the vacuum rasps.
(4)
The contents of all vacuum equipment shall be emptied into sealable, disposable bags before being disposed of in any open containers to prevent wind dispersal of debris after it has been disposed of in open top dumpsters or other containers.
(5)
EPS debris or scrap too large to be vacuumed shall be disposed of immediately in sealed bags or enclosed containers to prevent it from being broken into smaller pieces and dispersed off site.
(6)
Any activities not in compliance with these specifications will be stopped until the specifications of this section are satisfied. Any EPS debris on the construction site or escaping the construction site, regardless of the implementation of these specifications, will be the responsibility of the contractor to clean up immediately and completely.
(Code 1981, § 13-105; Ord. of 2-23-2014)
