COUNTY OFFICIALS
____________
Willie Blockum, Jr.
Chairman
____________
Shawanco Alexander
Catherine Dorsey
Commissioners
____________
Ruby Randolph
County Board of Commissioners Clerk
____________
James T. Jones, Jr.
County Attorney
PREFACE
This Code constitutes a codification of the general and permanent ordinances relating to subdivisions and zoning of the County of Taliaferro, Georgia.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the subdivision regulations and the comprehensive zoning ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners. The source of each section is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the Code, as it is supplemented.
The sections of the Code have been arranged with the Subdivision Regulations first, followed by the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance. Articles of the Code have been conveniently arranged to match both original documents, and the various sections within each article have been catchlined to facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant state law have been included.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
The section numbering systems used in this Code are both similar to systems used in many state and local government codes. In the subdivision portion of the Code, each section number consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the article number, and the letter after the dash refers to the position of the section within the article. Thus, the second section of article 1 is numbered 1-B, and the first section of article 6 is 6-A. In the zoning portion of the Code, each section number consists of two parts separated by a period. The figure before the period refers to the article number, and the figure after the period refers to the position of the section within the article. Thus, the second section of article 1 is numbered 1.1, and the first section of article 6 is 6.1. Under both of these systems, each section is identified with its article, and at the same time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to the new article or division.
Page Numbering System
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion. In the case of an article of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix.
Looseleaf Supplements
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
This publication was under the direct supervision of Tassy Spinks, Vice President of the Supplement Department, and Jennifer Shirah, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to J.H. Milner for his cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the County readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the County's affairs.
Copyright
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation and the County of Taliaferro, Georgia. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the County of Taliaferro, Georgia.
© Copyrighted material.
Municipal Code Corporation and the County of Taliaferro, Georgia. 2019.
