ARTICLE VII - IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED FOR LAND SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT

7-A - APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTION
All improvements required to be constructed as part of a subdivision shall be constructed and improved, in accordance with the standards and specifications for construction as required by this Article and as specified by the County Engineer.
7-B - PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Permits from the Land Development Officer with the approval of the County Engineer shall be required for construction in any public right-of-way. Permits will not be issued until such time that plans have been submitted and approved by the County Engineer.
7-C - IMPROVEMENTS TO ABUTTING LAND
For subdivisions that abut and access an abutting public street, the subdivider may be required to install curb and gutter, sidewalk, other road improvements, and, if required, a deceleration lane, according to standards and specifications of the Georgia Department of Transportation, along all abutting public streets. When a subdivision uses an unpaved public right-of-way for access, the subdivider shall improve that right- of-way to a pavement width consistent with Georgia Department of Transportation standards. Said improvements shall be from the subdivision entrance to the paved county road, state highway or federal highway from which the majority of traffic is expected to access the subdivision.
7-D - STANDARDS FOR CONFIGURING NEW STREETS
Figure 6
7-D-1
Street Alignment, Intersections and Jogs
Streets shall be aligned to join with planned or existing streets. Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles (ninety (90) degrees), but in no case shall such a street intersection be less than seventy five (75) degrees. Where street offsets or jogs cannot be avoided, offset "T" intersections shall be separated by a centerline offset of 150 feet or greater. See Figure 6.
7-D-2
Continuation of Existing Streets and Connections
Existing streets and rights-of-way that project to the boundary of a tract to be subdivided shall be continued at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the required width.
7-D-3
Relation to Adjoining Street System
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of internal streets to existing and adjoining streets.
7-D-4
Streets to Be Carried to Property Lines
When a new subdivision adjoins un-subdivided land susceptible to being subdivided the Planning Commission may require new streets be carried to the tract's boundaries.
7-D-5
Streets for Future Phases of the Tract
Where the plat or site plan proposed to be subdivided includes only part of the tract owned or intended for subdivision or development by the subdivider, a sketch plan of a future street system for the portion not slated for immediate subdivision consideration may be required by the Land Development Officer and if required shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider consistent with Section 6-B-2 of this Ordinance. All new public streets must have direct access to the existing public.
7-D-6
Dead-End Streets and Cul-De-Sacs
Streets that dead-end shall terminate in a cul-de-sac. Streets that are planned to continue at some future date shall provide a temporary cul-de-sac.
7-D-7
Marginal Access Streets
Whenever a major subdivision is proposed abutting the right-of-way of a U.S. or State highway, a marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to such right-of-way may be required by the Planning Commission at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between such marginal access street and highway right-of-way. The Planning Commission may also require a twenty (20) foot no- access easement and planting strip along the major arterial street to ensure that lots fronting on said street do not have access thereto. See Figure 7.
Figure 7
7-D-8
Alleys
Alleys may be provided subject to the approval of the Planning Commission. If they are provided, they must be paved. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided were possible; but if unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities.
7-E - REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS
The Planning Commission may require, where the density of development makes it feasible, that streets located within residential subdivisions and within the urban development area, be constructed to an urban development standard including curbs, gutters and sidewalks. All other residential streets may be constructed to the rural development standard unless otherwise stated within this Article or upon the recommendation of the County Engineer. Subdivision streets for non-residential development shall be constructed to the urban development standard.
7-E-1
Minimum Street Right-Of-Way and Pavement Widths
Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall at minimum meet the following:
Table 1
EXPAND
Minimum Street Right-Of-Way and Pavement Widths
STREET TYPE
MINIMUM RIGHT-OF- WAY WIDTH (FEET) MINIMUM
PAVEMENT WIDTH (FEET) CURB AND
GUTTER
REQUIRED
Arterial street Georgia DOT Standards Georgia DOT Standards Georgia DOT Standards
Collector street
(Urban) 50 26 YES
Collector street
(Rural) 50 26 NO
Residential Local
(Urban) 40 18 YES
Residential Local
(Rural) 40 18 NO
  7-E-2
Street Horizontal Alignment and Reverse Curves
Street horizontal alignments and reverse curves shall at minimum meet the following:
Table 2
EXPAND
Horizontal Alignment and Reverse Curves
STREET TYPE
MINIMUM
HORIZONTAL RADII OF CENTER LINE
CURVATURE (FEET) MINIMUM TANGENTS BETWEEN REVERSE CURVES (FEET)
Arterial 1,250 250
Collector 500 100
Residential Local 100 50
  7-E-3
Bridges
All bridges, tunnels, and underpasses intended for vehicular traffic shall be designed in accordance with the most current edition of the AASHTO "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges.
7-E-4
Grading and Stabilization of Street Rights-Of-Ways
When a new public or private street is proposed, all trees, brush, stumps, rocks, or other debris shall be cleared from the street right-of-way, except in cases where trees are required to be preserved by the Planning Commission. All streets shall be graded to lines, grades and cross sections approved on plans. All un-surfaced disturbed portions of street rights-of-way shall be stabilized by seeding, fertilizing, and mulching or by another equally effective method.
7-E-5
Radius at Street Intersections
The right-of-way radius at street intersections shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet, with larger radii for streets serving nonresidential development or accessing major thoroughfares, as approved by the County Engineer. The minimum pavement (curb) radius at street intersections shall be twenty five (25) feet.
7-E-6
Street Grades
No street grade shall be less than one (1) percent. No street grade for an arterial or collector street shall exceed eight (8) percent. No other local street grade shall exceed twelve (12) percent, unless the County Engineer finds that due to topographic conditions, a steeper grade is necessary, in which case the street grade shall not exceed fifteen (15) percent. Grades between twelve (12) percent and fifteen (15) percent shall not exceed a length of 150 feet.
7-F - PRIVATE STREETS
7-F-1
Private Streets Permitted
Private streets may, upon application, be permitted by the Board of Commissioners subject to the requirements of this section. No final plat involving a private street shall be approved unless said final plat conforms to the requirements of this section.
7-F-2
Engineering Plans Required
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct a new private street or alter an existing private street or to cause the same to be done without first obtaining approval of construction plans from the Land Development Officer and the County Engineer in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
7-F-3
Standards
All private streets shall be constructed to all standards for public streets as required by Section 7-E of this code, applicable construction specifications of the County Engineer, and as approved by the County Engineer.
7-F-4
Street Names And Signs
Private streets shall be named, subject to the approval of the Land Development Officer. The subdivider of land involving a private street shall install street signs with content containing the street name and the designation "private," as approved by the County Engineer. The sign signifying the private street may be required by the County Engineer to be a different color than that of street signs provided for public streets, in order to distinguish maintenance responsibilities in the field.
7-F-5
Easements
Easements for private streets shall be designated on final plats as general-purpose public access and utility easements, along with the name of said Private Street. Said easement shall at minimum be of the same width as that required for the right-of-way of a public street by the County Engineer for the type of public street (local, collector, etc.) most closely resembling the proposed private street. Easements for private streets shall not be included in any calculation of minimum lot size or density limitations established by the Taliaferro County Zoning Ordinance. In the cases of private streets, the general- purpose public access and utility easement for the private street shall either;
1.
Be shown in a manner on the final plat such that each lot fronting the private street extends to the centerline of the private street. No lot shall be permitted to be divided by the general purpose public access and utility easement required and established for a private street; or
2.
Shall be drawn as its own discrete parcel to be dedicated to a private homeowners association (i.e., not shown to be a part of any lot).
7-F-6
Maintenance
The County shall not maintain, repair, resurface, rebuild, or otherwise improve streets, signs, drainage improvements or any other appurtenances within general purpose public access and utility easements established for private streets. A private maintenance covenant recorded with the County Clerk of the Superior Court shall be required for any private street and other improvements within general-purpose public access and utility easements established for private streets. The covenant shall set out the distribution of expenses, remedies for non-compliance with the terms of the agreement, rights to the use of easements, and other pertinent considerations. The Covenant shall specifically include the following terms.
1.
The Covenant shall establish minimum annual assessments in an amount adequate to defray costs of ordinary maintenance and procedures for approval of additional needed assessments. The Covenant shall also specify that the funds from such assessments will be held by a homeowners or property owners association in cases of a subdivision of seven or more lots fronting on a private street.
2.
The Covenant shall include a periodic maintenance schedule.
3.
The Covenant for maintenance shall be enforceable by any property owner served by the private street.
4.
The Covenant shall establish a formula for assessing maintenance and repair costs equitably to property owners served by the private street.
5.
The Covenant shall run with the land.
7-F-7
Specifications For Final Plats Involving Private Streets
The Board of Commissioners shall not approve for recording any final plat involving a private street unless and until it is accompanied by the certificate in Appendix B labeled private street documentation.
7-F-8
Requirement for Purchaser's Acknowledgement of Private Responsibilities
Prior to the sale or as a condition of the closing of a real estate transaction involving any lot served by a private street in the county, the subdivider or seller of said lot shall execute a notarized purchaser's acknowledgement of private street construction and drainage maintenance responsibilities as set forth in Appendix B section 1. A copy of the purchaser's acknowledgement shall be retained.
7-G - CURB CUTS AND ACCESS SPECIFICATIONS
7-G-1
Entrance Improvement Specifications
Roadway entrances and improvements, including necessary acceleration and/or deceleration lane(s) and right/left turn lanes, shall be designed, installed, and maintained as approved by the Georgia Department of Transportation. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any state highway shall be approved by the Georgia Department of Transportation prior to the construction of such entrances or exits. All entrances or exits of any street or driveway, public or private, from or to any County road shall be approved by the County Engineer prior to the construction of such entrances or exits.
Figure 8
7-G-2
Curb Cut Specifications
No curb cut or access driveway shall be permitted to be located closer than 100 feet to the nearest existing or proposed right-of-way of an intersecting roadway or closer than forty (40) feet to a side property line unless the adjacent property owner is in agreement with the encroachment of the driveway and approval is obtained from the County Engineer. The County Engineer may limit the maximum width of a curb cut and/or the number of curb cuts to a parcel as necessary when it is deemed to be of benefit to the safety and welfare of the public. See Figure 8.
7-G-3
Access Along and Near Divided Highways
Where a divided highway exists or is planned, the following access standards shall be met:
Table 3
EXPAND
Access Along and Near Divided Highways
Minimum Access Separation Requirements Distance (Feet)
Curb cut of driveway from street intersection with divided highway 600
Parallel frontage road from right-of-way of divided highway 450
Curb cut or driveway on a local road from right-of-way of divided highway 200
Curb cut or driveway on a local road from state highway 200
Curb cut or driveway on parallel frontage road from local road 150
  7-G-4
Access To Major Subdivisions
Where any major subdivision is proposed, the Planning Commission may require more than two (2) points of access for major subdivisions of eight (8) or more lots.
7-G-5
Interparcel Connections
New development that contains or is intended to contain more than one (1) building or use on site may provide connections so that automobile trips between and among such buildings or uses can be accomplished without using the highway or major street. Where possible and practical, new developments and substantial improvements to existing developments may provide for pedestrian and automobile access connections between adjacent properties under different ownership when the uses of the properties are of such compatibility that patrons may frequent both buildings or uses in the same vehicle trip.
7-H - STREET LIGHTING
The County Engineer may require, where the density of development makes it feasible, that subdivisions provide street lighting along all public streets and along existing streets abutting the subdivision. Such street lighting if required shall meet specifications of the County Engineer.
7-I - STREET SIGNS
Signs for street names, directions of travel, traffic control, and hazards shall be provided as directed by the County Engineer. Street signs on exterior/boundary streets shall be installed by the County with the developer paying a proportionate share determined by the County. Street signs for interior streets of a subdivision or land development shall be installed at the subdivider's expense by the subdivider, subject to the approval of the County Engineer.
7-J - CURBS AND GUTTERS
The Planning Commission may require, where the density of development makes it feasible, that curbs and gutters be installed on residential subdivision streets that are located in the urban development area. All commercial and industrial developments must have curbs and gutters, regardless of the size of the lots. When property fronting on an existing County street is subdivided or developed, and the subdivision uses said existing street for access, then curb and gutter shall be required along said street along the entire property frontage of said street. Curbs shall be constructed in accordance with the most current Georgia Department of Transportation requirements.
7-K - SIDEWALKS
7-K-1
When Required
Sidewalks may be required when subdivisions are located within one (1) mile of a public school by the Planning Commission. Sidewalks are required to be installed along one (1) side of the street internal to a major subdivision, except in cases where the average lot size of the major subdivision is two (2) acres or more and is located in a rural development area.
7-K-2
Location
Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated non-pavement right-of-way of roads and shall parallel the street pavement as much as possible; provided, however, the County Engineer may permit sidewalks to be designed and constructed so that they meander around permanent obstructions or deviate from a linear pattern for design purposes.
7-K-3
Specifications
Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five (5) feet wide. A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two feet wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs in residential areas.
7-L - DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
7-L-1
General Requirements
An adequate drainage system, separate and independent of any sanitary sewer system and including any necessary ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional drains, drop inlets, bridges, etc., shall be provided for the proper drainage of all surface water for all subdivisions. Sizing and location of all drainage structures shall be the responsibility of a registered professional engineer or land surveyor. The County Engineer may require the use of on-site control methods such as retention or detention to mitigate the storm water and drainage impacts of the proposed subdivisions. The Planning Commission shall not approve any preliminary plat that does not make adequate provision for storm and flood water runoff channels or basins as determined by the County Engineer.
7-L-2
Method of Design and Capacity
Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the Rational Method, or other methods as approved by the County Engineer. Drainage improvements shall accommodate potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area within the site and shall be designed to prevent increases in downstream flooding. Capacity for a ten (10) year storm shall be provided for all street drainage structures such as catch basins, inlets, cross drains, etc. Capacity for a 100-year frequency storm event shall be provided for all main drainage structures such as retention basins, and principal storm sewers.
7-L-3
Location
Drainage facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, and shall be constructed in accordance with standards and specifications of the County Engineer. Catch basins shall be located at low points of streets. Where topography or other conditions are such as to make impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way, perpetual, unobstructed easements at least fifteen (15) feet in width for drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the road right- of-way and with satisfactory access to the road.
7-L-4
Discharge
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot or land development site to adjacent lots, land development sites, or vacant properties. Storm water shall not be discharged directly to perennial streams. It shall be directed toward natural drainages. If water must be discharged to a stream, the water quality flowing into the stream must meet or exceed the water quality in the receiving waters. The water quantity flowing into the stream must be evaluated to ensure the stream channel can accommodate the increased flows and not disrupt or degrade the ecology of the water body.
7-L-5
Grading and Site Drainage
Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all buildings, and drainage for individual lots shall be coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Buildings and parking lots shall be appropriately drained so as to prevent damage to abutting properties or public streets. All disturbed or graded ground areas of a building site not used for buildings or open storage areas shall be appropriately stabilized and grassed or covered with plants or landscaping materials.
7-L-6
Cross-Drainpipes
Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other structure, the design of which shall be approved by the County Engineer. Cross-drains shall be provided to accommodate all natural water flow.
7-L-7
Drop Inlets
Drop inlets shall be generally three-foot by three-foot boxes with two-foot by three-foot grates unless otherwise specified by the County Engineer.
7-L-8
Easements
Where an irrigation ditch or channel, natural creek, stream or other drainage way crosses a subdivision, the subdivider shall provide an easement sufficient for drainage and maintenance. Easements shall be provided for all drainage facilities as approved by the County Engineer. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or intermittent stream, a storm water or drainage easement of at least twenty (20) feet shall be provided.
7-M - WATER
7-M-1
Generally
All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be connected to a water system capable of providing water for health and emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection.
7-M-2
Water Main Requirements
When a public water main is accessible, the developer shall install adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, according to specifications of the County Engineer. All water mains shall normally be at least six inches in diameter except that pipe of lesser size may be used if properly looped and adequate water pressure is maintained in accordance with standards established by the Southeastern Fire Underwriters Association. Water lines shall be installed at least thirty (30) inches below grade. Water mains within subdivisions must be provided with connections to each lot in the subdivision, except as otherwise specifically provided.
7-M-3
Wells
If a County and/or municipal water supply is not available to the subdivision at the time of construction, then the subdivider shall provide an adequate alternative water source and an adequate water storage facility. In subdivisions where a public water system is not available individual wells may be used in a manner so that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision. When individual wells are proposed to be used for water supply, water samples shall be submitted to the County Health Department for its approval, and individual wells shall be approved by the County Health Department.
7-M-4
Fire Hydrants
Fire hydrants may be required by the Planning Commission for all nonresidential land developments and all subdivisions except those permitted to be served by individual on-site wells. Fire hydrants with appropriate water pressure at appropriate intervals throughout the subdivision or land development may be required to be provided by the subdivider as required.
1.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any principal dwelling. Hydrants, fittings, valves and fire department connections shall be approved by the Fire Department.
2.
Fire department connections shall be not less than eighteen (18) inches or more than thirty (36) inches above the level of the adjoining ground or paving.
3.
The thread of such connections shall be uniform with that used by the Fire Department.
4.
To eliminate future street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed before any final paving of a street within the right-of-way shared by such underground utilities.
7-N - SEWER
7-N-1
Generally
All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be served by an approved means of wastewater collection and treatment. Each subdivision and land development shall be served by adequate sewage disposal facilities. No building permit shall be issued for any building within a subdivision or for the development of land, if there is not present throughout the subdivision or to the land development an adequate system of wastewater collection and treatment.
7-N-2
Connection to Public Sewerage System
When a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible, as determined by the County Engineer, the subdivider or land developer shall connect with same and provide sewers accessible to each lot in the subdivision or to each land development. If a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, it shall be unlawful for any to maintain upon any such property an individual sewage disposal system. When a public sanitary sewerage system is not immediately accessible but is anticipated by the County to be available within a period of three years, the applicant shall install sanitary sewer lines, laterals, and mains from the street curb to a point in the subdivision or land development boundary so that a future connection with the public sewer main can be made. The County Engineer may condition the approval of a subdivision or land development on the agreement to connect to the public sewerage system upon its availability.
1.
Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-way unless topography dictates otherwise. No public sewer shall be less than eight inches in diameter.
2.
Manholes shall be installed in sanitary sewers with a maximum distance between two manholes of 400 feet, unless otherwise specified by standards of the County Engineer.
3.
Sanitary sewer slopes shall be equal to or greater than 0.8 percent for eight inch lines.
4.
All sewer lines shall be designed with slopes to obtain a minimum velocity of two feet per second.
5.
Minimum twenty (20) foot wide easements shall be provided for all sanitary sewer lines.
7-N-3
Alternative Provision
If sanitary sewer is not available at the time of the development of the subdivision, and if sanitary sewer is not anticipated to be available within a period of time to be determined by the Planning Commission to serve the subdivision, then on-site septic tanks, an oxidation pond, or another approved method of treatment of sanitary sewerage shall be installed by and at the expense of the subdivider, in conformity with the requirements of the County Health Department and according to specifications adopted by the County Engineer.
7-N-4
Septic Tanks
Where individual onsite wastewater disposal systems are allowed and proposed, individual lot sizes and shapes must exhibit appropriate regard for the peculiar health, drainage, and maintenance characteristics on the site. Additionally, detailed soil tests may be required in order to verify the ability of the lots to safely contain and dispose of septic system effluent. All septic tanks and onsite wastewater disposal systems are subject to the approval of the Health Department.
7-O - UTILITIES
All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas, electric power, telephone, and cable television, should be located underground throughout the subdivision where it is economically feasible to the applicable installing utility(IES). Utility easements should be located along lot lines and be no less than ten (10) feet in width.
7-P - OVERSIZING OF IMPROVEMENTS AND UTILITIES
The subdivider shall construct such oversized improvements and utilities that the County Engineer determines are necessary, provided that the subdivider shall not be obligated for the additional cost of improvements and utilities that are not uniquely required for that development, and provided the subdivider agrees to a proposal by the County Engineer to share in the cost arrangements for over-sizing improvements and utilities. A formula may be developed by the County to provide for a sharing of the cost of other improvements needed to serve the subdivision when certain improvements are necessary to serve future subdivisions in the vicinity.
