ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1-A - AUTHORITY
This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the 1983 Constitution of the State of Georgia, Article IX, Section II, Paragraph IV, as amended.
1-B - SHORT TITLE
This Ordinance shall be known as, and may be cited as, the "Taliaferro County Subdivision Regulations."
1-C - JURISDICTION
Unless this Ordinance clearly indicates otherwise, the Taliaferro County Subdivision Regulations shall apply exclusively within the unincorporated limits of Taliaferro County, Georgia.
1-D - PURPOSE
The intent of this Ordinance is to promote the health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the County. In furtherance of this general intent, the regulation of land development by Taliaferro County, Georgia is adopted for the following purposes:
1.
To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
2.
To promote the health and general welfare;
3.
To provide adequate light and air;
4.
To provide adequate water, sewerage and surface drainage;
5.
To assure the timely provision of public facilities and services to new land development;
6.
To protect property against blight and depreciation;
7.
To encourage the efficient use of land and structures; and
8.
To assure the adequate provision of safe and convenient traffic access and circulation, both vehicular and pedestrian, in and through new land development.
1-E - CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS
Whenever the regulations of this Ordinance require or impose more restrictive standards than are required in or under any other Ordinance, the requirements of this Ordinance shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any state or federal statute or local ordinance require more restrictive standards than are required by this Ordinance, the provisions of such statute shall govern.
1-F - VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY
Should any section or provision of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
1-G - REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
All ordinances and resolutions, or parts of ordinances or resolutions, in conflict herewith are repealed to the extent necessary to give this Ordinance full force and effect, except that any ordinances or resolutions repealed by this provision shall not limit or impair the county's authority to enforce such ordinances or resolutions to the extent that violations thereof occurred prior to repeal.
1-H - CODIFICATION
It is the intention of the Taliaferro County Board of Commissioners, and it is hereby ordained that the provisions of this Ordinance shall become and be made a part of the official code of the County of Taliaferro, Georgia and the sections of this Ordinance may be renumbered or reorganized to accomplish such intention.
