XII. - Appeals and Variances

12.1 - Additional Duties of the Planning Commission.
In addition to the duties otherwise set forth in this chapter, the planning commission shall:
1.
Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, permit, decision, determination or refusal made by the the county clerk or other administrative official in the carrying out or enforcement of any provision of this ordinance.
2.
Hear requests for interpretation of the zoning map, and for a decision on any special questions upon which the clerk is authorized to pass.
3.
Hear and make recommendations to the board of commissioners for approval or disapproval of all variances within the terms of this ordinance.
12.2 - Appeals to Planning Commission.
An appeal to the planning commission may be made by any person aggrieved, or by any governmental officer, department, board or bureau affected by any decision of the clerk, based in whole or in part upon the provisions of this ordinance. Such appeal shall be taken within 15 days of the action of decision appealed from by filing with the clerk a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for such appeal. The clerk shall transmit to the planning commission all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken, and shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or other matters referred to the planning commission. The clerk shall erect, in a conspicuous place on the property in question, a sign giving public notice of the appeal at least 15 days prior to the scheduled hearing. Any party or person may appear at the hearing in person, by agent or by attorney.
12.3 - Variances.
A property owner or his designated representative, designated in writing and signed by the owner, may make application for a variance, using forms provided by the clerk. Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the clerk shall schedule a public hearing before the planning commission. The clerk shall advertise such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, and shall erect, in a conspicuous place on the property in question, a sign giving public notice of the appeal at least 15, but no more than 45, days prior to the scheduled hearing. The planning commission shall consider and decide whether to recommend approval or disapproval of all applications for variances within 30 days after such public hearing, and in accordance with the standards set forth in this subsection. Variances from the terms of this ordinance may be recommended by the planning commission in such individual hardship cases of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the planning commission based on the following:
a.
There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape, or topography; and
b.
The application of the zoning ordinance to this particular piece of property would create an unnecessary hardship; and
c.
Such conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of property involved; and
d.
Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment to the public good or impair the purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance; provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a use of land or building or structure which is prohibited by the zoning ordinance.
12.4 - Limitations on variances.
A variance shall not be considered or granted from the conditions of approval imposed on a property through a zoning change granted by the board of commissioners; nor may a minimum lot size required in the applicable zoning district be reduced; nor may any use of land or structures be granted that is not permitted by the zoning district that is applicable to the property.
12.5 - Appeal Against the Board of Commissioners.
Any person or persons severally or jointly aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Commissioners or with any official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision of said Board may appeal said decision to the Superior Court of Taliaferro County, Georgia. The procedure for said appeal shall be the same as an appeal to the Superior Court from any decision made by the Probate Court as provided by the laws of Georgia, except that said appeal shall be filed within thirty days from the date of the decision of the Board of Commissioners or any official charged with the enforcement of any order, requirement, or decision in connection therewith; and upon failure to file said appeal within thirty days, the decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
