Chapter 18 - HEALTH AND SANITATION[1]

Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Authority to provide public health facilities and services, Ga. Const. art. IV, § II, ¶ III(a)(3).

Sec. 18-1. - General duty to keep premises clean.
All property owners and tenants are required to keep their homes, storehouses, stores, places of business and their premises in a sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 10-1; Code 2004, § 42-1)
Sec. 18-2. - County permit required for eating, drinking establishments.
All eating and drinking establishments or places in the City shall be required to secure a permit from the county health department. A person conducting an itinerant restaurant shall also be required to secure a permit. No business license shall be issued to an eating or drinking establishment or place or person conducting an itinerant restaurant within the City before a permit has been granted by the county health department.
(Prior Code, § 10-2; Code 2004, § 42-2)
Sec. 18-3. - Open, dangerous wells; nuisance.
The owners of all open and dangerous wells in the City must close in, cover, or otherwise abate such nuisance. Upon failure to do so, such nuisance shall be abated by authority of the Mayor and Council and the cost of abating same collected from the owner as provided in section 18-4(c).
(Prior Code, § 10-4; Code 2004, § 42-4)
Sec. 18-4. - Growth of vegetation.
(a)
The owner of any lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, within the corporate limits of the City shall not permit any grass, weeds, or wild bushes to grow to a height in excess of 18 inches upon any such property or premises which shall constitute a nuisance.
(b)
The owner of any property, lot, building or premises, occupied or vacant, shall be deemed the party responsible; provided further, that if on such property, lot, building, or premises there exists a building containing four or less than four living or business units or establishments, then the occupants of such living or business units or establishments shall be deemed the responsible party. If the lease or rental agreement or contract between the owner and the occupant specifically names the party responsible for the clearing or cutting of such grass, weeds, or bushes, whether he is the owner or occupant and regardless of the number of living or business units or establishments which the building or premises may contain, then such specified party shall be held responsible under this section. A living or business unit or establishment is defined as that portion of all of a building which house a separate and undivided family or business concern.
(c)
Upon giving not less than five days' notice in writing to a person, or his agent, if the person creating or maintaining the nuisance are nonresidents of the City or of the state, the person or agent so notified shall immediately abate the nuisance. If such nuisance continues after ten days of the giving of such notice, then the City, through any officer designated by the Mayor, shall abate the nuisance. The City, through such officer designated by the Mayor, is authorized to employ labor and purchase material to make repairs, changes or eliminations, including the employment of labor and purchase of material, and do other things that may be necessary to abate such nuisance. If the cost of abating such nuisance are not paid, then an execution shall issue against the property owner or property for the cost of the same, provided that the notice described in this section affords the property owner an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor and Council, or a designated committee thereof, as to the necessity of any such repairs, changes or elimination. The execution issuing hereunder shall be issued, enforced, and collected in the same manner as that provided by law for the execution of ad valorem taxes due the City.
(Prior Code, § 10-5; Code 2004, § 42-5)
Sec. 18-5. - Dead animals.
No person shall deposit any carcass of any dead animal upon any ground, public or private, within the City.
(Prior Code, § 10-6; Code 2004, § 42-6)
Sec. 18-6. - Accumulation of junk.
(a)
Generally. It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, tenant, or other person having possession and/or control of private property to deposit, collect, store, maintain, or permit to be deposited, collected, stored, or to remain upon such private property any junk as set forth in this section.
(b)
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned or discarded means an article of machinery, an appliance, a vehicle, an article of equipment and other material when it has remained upon the property in an inoperable condition for more than 60 days, or when it has become inoperable and the owner does not intend to repair it and place it back in operation.
Appliance means any type of machine or device used in and about the home or premises, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, refrigerators, iceboxes, freezers, stoves, washing machines, television and radio sets, lawn mowers, and other devices of like nature.
Junk means any abandoned or discarded machinery, appliance, vehicle, equipment, or material of any kind whatsoever.
Vehicle means any device in, upon or by means of which any person or property is or may be transported.
(c)
Notice of abatement. Before any person shall be convicted of violating this section, he shall be given notice in writing that he is required within 30 days from the receipt of such notice, to:
(1)
Repair such junk and put it into operation;
(2)
Remove the same from his property; or
(3)
Furnish satisfactory proof that such property has not in fact been abandoned, and is being held for some useful purpose.
(d)
Abatement by City. The City may also, after the expiration of 30 days from the giving of the notice required by subsection (c) of this section, abate such condition as a nuisance as provided in section 18-4(c) while still maintaining the conditions of notice as prescribed in subsection (c) of this section.
(e)
Application of section provisions. This section shall not be applicable to the operation of any junkyard, salvage yard, car lot or other similar businesses licensed by the City, where the storage and accumulation of such items are an incident to the operation of such regularly licensed businesses.
(Prior Code, § 10-7; Code 2004, § 42-7)
Sec. 18-7. - Penalties for violation of chapter.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished according to section 1-9. Each day such violations are committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as provided in this Code.
(Prior Code, § 10-8; Code 2004, § 42-8)
