Chapter 28 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES[1]
Footnotes:
--- (1) ---
State Law reference— Municipal street systems, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-90 et seq.; powers with respect to municipal street system, O.C.G.A. § 32-4-92; grant by municipal corporation of right to obstruct public street prohibited, O.C.G.A. § 36-30-10; power of City to open, close or extend public streets, alleys and sidewalks, O.C.G.A. § 36-34-3; municipal street improvements, O.C.G.A. § 36-39-1 et seq.; power to construct and maintain roads, including curbs, sidewalks, streetlights and devices to control the flow of traffic, Ga. Const. art. IX, § II, ¶ III(a)(4).

ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL

Sec. 28-1. - Maintenance and repair of public streets.
All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, curbs, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the person so designated by the Mayor and Council who shall have the responsibility of enforcing all provisions of this chapter and all ordinances of the City relating to such public ways.
(Prior Code, § 17-1; Code 2004, § 62-1)
Sec. 28-2. - Defacing sidewalks, streets and curbs.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface any public sidewalk, street or curb in the City by painting any signs thereon, whether for commercial advertising purposes or not, or to walk or drive any vehicle upon or injure in any way any newly laid street, sidewalk or curbing pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricaded or is soft or newly laid.
(Prior Code, § 17-2; Code 2004, § 62-2)
Sec. 28-3. - Deposits onto streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass or other article which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
(Prior Code, § 17-3; Code 2004, § 62-3)
Sec. 28-4. - Obstructing streets and sidewalks.
It shall be unlawful for any person to convert any public street, sidewalk or alley in the City to his or her use, or place any obstruction in or upon them, or either of them, such as wood, barrels and boxes, merchandise, timber or lumber, except necessarily for building purposes, and such obstruction shall be moved by the police or the Street Department at the expense of the owner thereof or the person causing such obstruction. This section shall not prohibit the placing of goods, wares, merchandise, produce, boxes, barrels, or other articles on the sidewalks within three feet from the wall of a building owned or leased by the person placing such article.
(Prior Code, § 17-4; Code 2004, § 62-4)
Sec. 28-5. - Obstruction to vision at intersections.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in charge of any lot, parcel or piece of land within the City to allow any obstruction to vision in the triangle formed by the lines of two intersecting streets, or a street and any alley, and a line joining points of such lines 25 feet distant from their point of intersection by permitting any vegetation to grow or be maintained between the heights of three feet and ten feet above the grade of the centerline of the intersection, or by constructing or maintaining any fence or other structure which constitutes an obstruction to view within the triangle.
(Prior Code, § 17-5; Code 2004, § 62-5)
Sec. 28-6. - Street name signs.
(a)
Changing without authority. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any sign designating a street, avenue or other public place by a different name than that by which it is generally and legally known, or to refuse to remove the same from their property when requested to do so by an officer of the City.
(b)
Injuring or removing. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and maliciously to injure, deface or remove any of the street signs posted at or near the corner of the streets in the City.
(Prior Code, §§ 17-6, 17-7; Code 2004, § 62-6)
Sec. 28-7. - Maintenance of property between sidewalks and streets.
All persons who own real estate in the City, whose real estate abuts upon any sidewalk which is paved, shall be required to keep that portion of such sidewalk which lies between the property line and the curbline of the adjoining street, and upon which his real estate abuts, in good and smooth condition and free from growing weeds and other obnoxious and unsightly vegetation which would mar or detract from the beauty and cleanliness of the street upon which their property abuts. Any property owner who shall place or allow grass to grow upon the portion of the sidewalk lying between the property line and the curbline of the street, and upon which his real estate abuts, shall keep such grass properly mowed and free from rubbish of all kinds. If such owners are not in the possession of their property, then this section shall apply to their tenants or those who have possession or control of the property.
(Prior Code, § 17-8; Code 2004, § 62-7)
Sec. 28-8. - Trees and shrubs.
(a)
Planting and removal. It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, remove, injure or cut any tree, bush or shrub in or from any public street, parkway or other public place without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(b)
Dangerous trees. Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public place in the City in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease. Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands. The City, through its authorized representative, may cause to be trimmed or removed any and all such trees or shrubs so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be removed.
(c)
Poles and wires. Any person or company which maintains poles and wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places of the City shall keep such wires and poles free and away from any nearby trees or shrubs in such places, and keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed, so that no injury shall befall either the poles and wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(Prior Code, § 17-9; Code 2004, § 62-8)
Sec. 28-9. - Encroachments.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any building or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property, or to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without having first secured a permit from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-10; Code 2004, § 62-9)
Sec. 28-10. - Report of defects, obstructions, deposits and discharges.
It shall be the duty of every City official and employee who becomes aware of any defect or obstruction, or of any unlawful deposit or discharge, in or on any public street, alley, curb, sidewalk or other public way of the City to report the same to the person so designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-11; Code 2004, § 62-10)
Secs. 28-11—28-38. - Reserved.
ARTICLE II. - STREET CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 28-39. - Street improvements.
(a)
Whenever the improvement of any street or part thereof shall be deemed necessary by the Mayor and Council, a resolution stating the nature and location of the proposed improvement shall be declared and published once a week for three consecutive weeks in the newspaper in which the county sheriff's advertisements are published. If the owners of a majority of the lineal feet of frontage of the lands abutting on the proposed improvement do not, within 15 days after the last day of publication of such resolution, file in the Clerk's office a written protest against such improvement, contracts for the work to be done shall be entered into and assessments and liens shall be fixed in accordance with the law.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or lay any pavement for or on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley or other public way, or to repair the same, without having first obtained a permit from the City Clerk in the manner specified in this chapter.
(c)
Each applicant for a permit to construct or improve any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, curb, alley or other public way shall be required to file a bond with surety to be determined by the City Council, conditioned to indemnify the City for any loss or damage caused by or resulting from the work undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 17-16; Code 2004, § 62-41)
Sec. 28-40. - Specifications.
(a)
All street and sidewalk pavements and all curbing shall be laid in conformity with the specifications established or approved from time to time by the Mayor and Council or an authorized representative.
(b)
The standard for construction of curbs on each side of any City street, or any connecting street or road for which curbs have been prescribed, shall be not less than one ramp per lineal block on or near the crosswalks at intersections. Such ramps shall be at least 40 inches wide and so constructed as to allow reasonable access to the crosswalk for physically handicapped persons.
(Prior Code, § 17-17; Code 2004, § 62-42)
Secs. 28-41—28-68. - Reserved.
ARTICLE III. - EXCAVATIONS

Sec. 28-69. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Public place means a street, alley, sidewalk or other public property owned by the City or under its supervision.
(Prior Code, § 17-22; Code 2004, § 62-71)
Sec. 28-70. - Permission to excavate; required.
(a)
No person shall dig or excavate in any public place within the City or install, repair or replace any property or equipment in such public place, or do any other work in or on any public place, which requires the removal or breaking of the surface or under part of any such public place, unless and until such person shall have first secured, in the manner provided in this chapter, permission to do so.
(b)
If any person shall do any of the acts referred to in this section without first having secured permission to do so in the manner provided in this chapter, he shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-9.
(Prior Code, § 17-23; Code 2004, § 62-72)
Sec. 28-71. - Failure to complete or restore.
Upon the failure of any person, whose application to dig or excavate shall have been granted and who shall have begun the work, to complete the same without delay, or upon the completion of such work, to restore the public place to the same or as good a condition as the same was before such work was done, or to comply with any reasonable rules or regulations of the Mayor and Council from time to time given to such person for the completion and restoration of such public place, such person shall, upon conviction, in addition to other penalties, forfeit to the City any deposit of money made with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 17-24; Code 2004, § 62-73)
Sec. 28-72. - Restoration by City.
Upon the failure of any person to make such repairs as required in this chapter in the manner or in the time required, the Mayor and Council is empowered and authorized to cause such repairs to be made and such public place to be restored to its original condition, and the cost thereof, plus 25 percent thereof, shall be charged to and paid by such person who so failed to make such repairs, and such sum of money shall constitute and be a debt due from such person to the City.
(Prior Code, § 17-25; Code 2004, § 62-74)
Sec. 28-73. - Prompt work.
All digging or excavating to be done, as provided in this chapter, shall be promptly started and completed without delay after permission shall have been granted, and such public place shall be, immediately upon the completion of such work, restored to the same or as good condition as the same was before such work was done thereon. Such work or restoration shall be at all times and in all respects in compliance with the orders and supervision of the Mayor and Council and from time to time given to such person for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 17-26; Code 2004, § 62-75)
Sec. 28-74. - Warning devices; posting permit.
Upon the granting of an application for permission to dig or excavate in any public place, and in all other cases provided for in this chapter, it shall be the duty of the applicant, before beginning any such work, to enclose the place where such work is being done or otherwise afford adequate protection to street traffic. He shall post and keep posted at such place a placard showing that the work is being done under a permit granted by the City, with sufficient other information thereon to give ample warning to those using such public place that the same is out of repair or being repaired, and, in addition thereto, he shall place sufficient markings at night by a red light, to notify those having the right to use the same that such public place, or part thereof, is closed.
(Prior Code, § 17-27; Code 2004, § 62-76)
Sec. 28-75. - Clearance for fire equipment.
The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere with access to fire stations and fire hydrants. Materials or obstructions shall not be placed within 15 feet of fire hydrants. Passageways leading to fire escapes or firefighting equipment shall be kept free of piles of material or other obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 17-28; Code 2004, § 62-77)
Sec. 28-76. - Protection of adjoining property.
The permittee shall at all times and at his own expense preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for such purpose. Where in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall obtain permission from the owner of such private property for such purpose. The permittee shall, at his own expense, shore up and protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work and shall be responsible for all damage to public or private property or highways resulting from its failure to properly protect and carry out such work. Whenever it may be necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been backfilled. All construction and maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed before such work began. The permittee shall not remove even temporarily any trees or shrubs which exist in parking strip areas or easements across private property without first having notified and obtained the consent of the property owner, or, in the case of public property, the head of the department concerning the same.
(Prior Code, § 17-29; Code 2004, § 62-78)
Sec. 28-77. - Sidewalk excavations.
Any excavation made in any sidewalk or under a sidewalk shall be provided with a substantial and adequate footbridge over such excavation on the line of the sidewalk, which bridge shall be at least three feet wide and securely railed on each side, so that pedestrians can pass over safely at all times.
(Prior Code, § 17-30; Code 2004, § 62-79)
Sec. 28-78. - Protective measures.
The permittee shall erect such fence, railing or barriers about the site of the excavation work as shall prevent danger to persons using the street or sidewalks, and such protective barriers shall be maintained until the work shall be completed or the danger removed. At twilight there shall be placed upon each place of excavation and upon any excavated materials or structures or other obstructions to streets suitable and sufficient lights, which shall be kept burning throughout the night during the maintenance of such obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 17-31; Code 2004, § 62-80)
Sec. 28-79. - Care of excavated material.
All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such manner as not to endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets and adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 17-32; Code 2004, § 62-81)
Sec. 28-80. - Damage to existing improvements.
All damage done to existing improvements during the progress of the excavation work shall be repaired by the permittee. Materials for such repair shall conform to the requirements of any applicable Code provision or ordinance of the City. If upon being ordered the permittee fails to furnish the necessary labor and materials for such repairs, the City or its authorized representative shall have the authority to cause such necessary labor and materials to be furnished and the cost shall be charged against the permittee, who shall also be liable on his bond therefor.
(Prior Code, § 17-33; Code 2004, § 62-82)
Sec. 28-81. - Cleanup.
As the excavation work progresses all streets and private properties shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris resulting from such work. All cleanup operations at the location of such excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the satisfaction of the City's authorized representative. From time to time as may be ordered by the City through its authorized representative and in any event immediately after completion of such work, the permittee shall at his or its own expense clean up and remove all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from such work and, upon failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the appropriate department head, such work may be done by the City, and the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be liable for the cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 17-34; Code 2004, § 62-83)
Sec. 28-82. - Noise, dust and debris.
The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable noise, dust and unsightly debris and shall conduct and carry out the excavation work in such manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and occupants of neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 17-35; Code 2004, § 62-84)
Sec. 28-83. - Inspections.
The City, through its authorized representative, shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be required by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-36; Code 2004, § 62-85)
Sec. 28-84. - Decision of Mayor and Council final.
Any controversy between the person or company acquiring a permit or making a deposit in order to dig or excavate in any public place and the City Clerk or head of the department authorized to handle the same, respecting any of the duties to be performed by any of them, may be submitted to the Mayor and Council by any of the parties, and, when so submitted, the action of the Mayor and Council thereon shall be binding on all the parties.
(Prior Code, § 17-37; Code 2004, § 62-86)
Secs. 28-85—28-111. - Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. - PERMITS

Sec. 28-112. - Application.
Every person required to procure a permit under the provisions of this chapter or any City ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter shall submit a written application for such permit to the City Clerk. The written application shall state the following:
(1)
The name and address of the applicant;
(2)
The purpose for which the application is submitted;
(3)
The nature and location of any work proposed to be done and the name of the person or firm who is to do such work;
(4)
The estimated cost of the proposed work;
(5)
The date of commencement and date of completion of the proposed work, and such other data or plans as may reasonably be required by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 17-42; Code 2004, § 62-121)
Sec. 28-113. - Fee.
(a)
Unless otherwise provided, each application for a permit under this chapter shall be accompanied by a permit fee as established by the City Council.
(b)
The City Clerk shall issue a receipt to the applicant for the amount of the fee tendered with the application for a permit, provided that such receipt shall not be construed as approval of the application.
(c)
Upon the disapproval of any application for which a fee has been submitted under the provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk shall refund such fee, provided that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the City.
(Prior Code, § 17-43; Code 2004, § 62-122)
Sec. 28-114. - Review of application.
Upon receipt of the application for a permit under the provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk shall forward such application to the Mayor and Council, who shall approve or disapprove such application during the Council meeting following receipt thereof, based on, but not limited to, the following provisions:
(1)
The work shall be done according to the standard specifications of the City for public work of like character.
(2)
The operation will not unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the means of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent properties.
(3)
The health, welfare and safety of the public will not be unreasonably impaired.
(Prior Code, § 17-44; Code 2004, § 62-123)
Sec. 28-115. - Issuance.
Upon receipt of an approved application from the Mayor and Council, the City Clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant therefor, which permit shall state the nature of the work to be done or activity to be carried out and bear the date of issuance and the signature of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 17-45; Code 2004, § 62-124)
Sec. 28-116. - Display.
It shall be the duty of any permittee to keep the permit issued to him in a conspicuous place at the site of the work or activity to be engaged in. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit each permit at or about any location not covered by such permit, or to misrepresent the number of the permit or the date of expiration of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 17-46; Code 2004, § 62-125)
Sec. 28-117. - Limitation of issuance.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no permit shall be issued to any applicant therefor who has failed to satisfy any bonding requirement imposed upon persons engaged in the kind of work or activity proposed to be done or carried out by such applicant.
(Prior Code, § 17-47; Code 2004, § 62-126)
Secs. 28-118—28-144. - Reserved.
ARTICLE V. - SPECIAL EVENTS

Sec. 28-145. - Title.
This article shall be known as the "City of Buena Vista Special Events Ordinance."
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-100))
Sec. 28-146. - Purposes.
(a)
The purpose of the city in adopting this article is to ensure that the city will have adequate advance notice of a proposed special event and the cooperation of the organizers in order to properly plan for the event.
(b)
Protecting local citizen's property and privacy rights.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-101))
Sec. 28-147. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Administrator means the chief executive officer (mayor) of the government of the city or his designee for the administration of this article.
Application means a written request on forms supplied by the city which sets forth the information required to be provided by this article.
Application fee means the non-refundable fee paid in connection with an application made pursuant to this article.
City-sponsored event means a public event that is directly related to a recognized function of the local government, and which is in major part initiated, financed and executed by the city.
Internal emergency services plan means a plan submitted by the applicant and approved, as submitted, or as modified thereafter, by the administrator, for the provision of emergency services, which term shall include fire and medical services, to public and private property, performers, entertainers, exhibitors, speakers or other persons in the festival assembly area.
Internal security plan means a plan submitted by the applicant and approved, as submitted, or as modified thereafter, by the administrator, for the provision of security to public and private property, performers, entertainers, exhibitors, speakers or other persons in the festival assembly area.
Permit fee means the fee required to be paid pursuant to this article for the issuance of a permit to hold a special event, where such fee shall be assessed to recover the direct and indirect costs associated therewith and shall not exceed the administrative costs of regulation.
Producer means any person, group of persons, organization, association, club, or other entity responsible for planning, producing, and conducting an event.
Special event or event means any organized activity having as its purpose entertainment, recreation and/or education, such as a festival or celebration, foot or vehicle race, parade or march, rally or assembly which takes place on a public street, sidewalk or right-of-way, or occurs on private property and impacts government services on public rights-of- way and also:
(1)
Lasts for one or more continuous days; or
(2)
Is reasonably expected to have more than 100 people gather in a public park and/or on a public street and/or on other public rights of way owned by or located in the city; or is reasonably expected to have more than 50 people gather on privately-owned property;
(3)
Includes entertainment, dancing, music, dramatic productions, art exhibitions, parades, road races, the sale of merchandise, the sale of food, or any combination of the foregoing;
(4)
Requires the erection of stages, barricades, utility poles, booths, tents, or other temporary structures, or the use of parked vehicles or of permanent structures which need to be removed within 24 hours after the event; and
(5)
Requires for its successful execution the provision and coordination of municipal services to a degree significantly over and above that which the city routinely provides under ordinary everyday circumstances.
Special event assembly area means the entire area of the event for which the applicants are responsible under the terms of this article, including the following elements: the event production area, all vending locations connected with the event, the area where the anticipated crowd can reasonably be expected to locate itself upon arrival at the event.
Vendor means any persons who engage in the sale to the public of any food or food products, goods, services, or merchandise of whatever nature, from any location, either mobile or stationary, on a temporary itinerant basis on any public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. The term "vendor," as used in this ordinance, shall not be construed to include, or prohibit, a permanent business, operating under the provisions of the business license ordinance and other applicable laws, from displaying goods or merchandise on a public sidewalk immediately in front of and adjacent to the permanent business structure so long as such displays do not impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic and so long as other laws and ordinances pertaining to such business or displays are complied with.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-102))
Sec. 28-148. - Applicability.
(a)
This article is intended to be the framework within which all special events held in the city, as the term "special event" is defined herein, are approved, and regulated.
(b)
It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to hold a special event as defined herein within the limits of the city without complying with the procedures set forth in this article, provided that the requirements of this article shall not apply to a city-sponsored event.
(d)
Additional special event operating guidelines, policies, and procedures specific to staging a special event in the city streets, rights-of-way, sidewalks and parks may be developed and adopted administratively and enforced by the city.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-103))
Sec. 28-149. - Permit required.
(a)
It shall be unlawful for any person, group, organization, association, club, or other entity to conduct or cause to be conducted any special event in the city limits without having obtained a valid permit for such event.
(b)
A special event shall be limited to the specific geographic area within which the event is to take place and the producer of a special event shall be responsible for the provision of off duty police and sanitation services within the boundaries of the event for a period of two hours past the conclusion of the event or until the area is cleared of all activities and structures related to such event.
(c)
Except for the clearing of the area, no special event shall be allowed to continue beyond the time approved on the permit for the event. The hours of operation shall be no more than 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. unless prior approval from the mayor and council.
(d)
A maximum continuous sound level of 80 dBA and a maximum peak sound level of 100 dBA shall not be exceeded at adjacent property lines of any residential use.
(e)
The outermost boundaries of the special event shall be fully and clearly delineated on a map, which shall be no smaller than 8½ by 11 inches in size, and attached to the application for a permit. All public streets and/or sidewalks within and adjacent to such areas shall be clearly identified. The administrator, or designee, shall require as part of the approval for the event, that areas no less than five feet in width shall be designated and preserved for public circulation and access to adjoining business establishments outside the areas delineated for the event.
(f)
The producer of a special event such as a walk or run shall submit with the application for a permit a map, which shall be no smaller than 8½ by 11 inches in size, showing the exact route of the course for the walk or run.
(g)
Any person or organization desiring to hold a special event must make application for a permit to hold such event to the city clerk in the city office. Such application must be made no later than 45 days prior to the date of the festival. The application must include the following information:
(1)
The name of the festival and its purpose in general terms.
(2)
The names of the persons or organizations sponsoring the festival, together with the addresses and telephone numbers of all such persons or organizations.
(3)
The dates and times of the proposed festival, including projected set-up and break-down and the opening and closing time for each day of the event.
(4)
The specific location within the city where such event is to be held.
(5)
The number of persons estimated to be in attendance at such event or festival.
(6)
A site plan showing the layout of the event area, parking area, showing the event production area in detail, and specifying the boundaries of the overall event assembly area. The site plan should also include the location of portable toilets to be provided and show the number of such toilets at each location.
(7)
Whether any street closings are requested and, if so, which streets, who will guard the closed streets, dates and times of closing.
(8)
Whether any temporary outdoor structures are proposed to be erected, describing them in detail.
(9)
Whether any signs or banners are proposed to be erected, giving details.
(10)
Whether a parade is expected to be held in connection with the event, stating the time, location, and anticipated number of participants.
(11)
Whether any entertainment will be involved, giving details as to nature, time and place of such entertainment.
(12)
Whether there will be street vendors involved, giving details, including specifically contracted or regularly licensed vendors.
(13)
How the applicant proposes to ensure the cleanup of the area, including the following information:
a.
The applicant shall provide detailed plans regarding the following:
1.
The number, volume, and location of containers within the event assembly area for the collection and disposal of solid waste generated by the proposed outdoor festival.
2.
The number, volume, and location of containers within the event assembly area for the separate collection, removal and recovery of recyclable materials generated by the proposed outdoor festival.
b.
For any special event required to provide private solid waste collection, the applicant shall provide the name and contact information of the private company contracted for the collection, removal and disposal of solid waste and recyclable materials from public event area.
(14)
Include in the site plan for all required internal emergency services for the festival, specifying how emergency vehicles will reach and leave the site.
(15)
A specific plan for internal security for the festival, specifying the number of security guards which the applicant plans to use and what arrangements the applicant has made for them. At the option of the applicant, the internal security plan may be comprised entirely of off-duty law enforcement officers in addition to "T-shirt" security.
(16)
Whether utility services such as electrical power or water will be required, specifying the amount and type, and stating the applicant's proposal, if any, for obtaining such services.
(17)
Whether electrical wiring will be installed, specifying installation details.
(18)
Whether the applicant intends to gate the festival and charge an admission fee, specifying the amount of the fee and details as how the applicant proposes to gate the festival.
(19)
A certification by applicant that a notice of intent to hold a special event has been sent by registered mail or by hand delivery to the city. A copy of this notice without the attachments shall be attached to the application. If delivered by hand, a receipt must be obtained and attached.
(20)
The applicant shall be provided with a copy of all ordinances deemed applicable to the conduct of an outdoor festival at the time of receipt of application.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-104))
Sec. 28-150. - Application fee.
(a)
A producer of a special event shall make application for a permit for such event at the city hall office on a form provided by the city. Application forms may be obtained at the city hall office.
(b)
An application for a special event should be filed at least 45 days prior to the date the event is scheduled to occur. However, no application shall be accepted earlier than one year prior to the date of the event.
(c)
A non-refundable application fee, as set forth in the city's adopted fee schedule, shall be paid at the time the application for a permit is filed. Said fee shall be payable to the city by cash, money order, or cashier's check.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-105))
Sec. 28-151. - Identification of producer.
The producer of an event, if a group or organization, shall be fully identified on the application. However, a special event permit shall be issued only to an individual person, who may be the actual producer or a designated agent of the producer and said individual person shall be solely and fully responsible for compliance with all provisions, including all financial requirements, of this ordinance and other applicable laws.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-106))
Sec. 28-152. - Final approval of permit; minimum review period.
(a)
The city council or their designee is authorized to approve and issue a permit for a special event after considering all comments and conditions of the reviewing departments and agencies as well as other information pertaining to the proposed event as described on the application, and after the payment of all applicable fees and costs.
(b)
A minimum of ten working days shall be allowed for the review of an application and the issuance of a permit.
(c)
The city shall either issue or deny the permit no later than 15 working days following the date the completed application is filed. If the permit is denied, the producer shall be notified in writing of the denial and the reason for the denial.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-107))
Sec. 28-153. - Permit fees.
After the administrator approves the issuance of a permit, the producer may obtain such permit by agreeing to accept the conditions imposed in accordance with this ordinance and by paying the applicable permit fee, as set forth in the city's adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-108))
Sec. 28-154. - Liability.
The producer of any special event shall hold harmless the government of the city, its officers, employees and agents from liability of damages arising from any acts or omissions emanating from a special event. Proof of such waiver shall be filed with, and made a part of, the application form. The producer shall be responsible for providing all insurance that may be necessary for any special event.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-109))
Sec. 28-155. - Vendors.
(a)
Sales permitted. The sale of food or any merchandise or services of any type by a vendor shall be allowed as a component of a special event provided such vendor is approved and authorized in writing by the producer of the event and shall be conducted in accordance with such conditions and limitations as shall be imposed in writing by the producer and submitted as a part of the application for a permit.
(b)
Unauthorized vending is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any vendor not authorized by the producer of a special event as provided under this section to engage in such business within a distance of 25 yards of such event from one hour before until one hour after the event.
(c)
Exemption. Whether or not approved by an event producer, a vendor that has been assigned a fixed location for the purpose of vending within the city or a property owner may continue to engage in such business at that assigned location during any special event.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-110))
Sec. 28-156. - Glass containers prohibited.
The use of glass containers within the area of any special event shall be prohibited.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-111))
Sec. 28-157. - Toilet facilities.
The producer of a special event shall be required to provide temporary outdoor toilet facilities at any event at which 50 or more persons are expected to be in attendance. The outdoor toilets shall be removed within 24 hours after the event has ended. The ADA requires that at least five percent of a single user portable toilet cluster at a single location be wheelchair-accessible for public events.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-112))
Sec. 28-158. - Entertainment.
Musical entertainment shall be provided in a manner consistent with the peace and good order of the community. The producer of the event shall be responsible for full compliance with the environmental ordinance.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-113))
Sec. 28-159. - Tents, stages, etc.
Tents, arbors, stages, grandstands or other temporary facilities constructed or erected as a part of a special event will be subject to approval by the Building Inspector and must be removed within 24 hours after the close of the event.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-114))
Sec. 28-160. - Street closings.
The complete or partial closure of any street, sidewalk or other public way as a part of the special event shall be subject to approval by the city. With the closing of streets, the barricades shall be manned at the expense of the producer.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-115))
Sec. 28-161. - Movie, TV, advertising and/or production company use of streets and/or sidewalks.
Use of city streets, sidewalks, parks, or other city owned property by any movies/TV/advertising/production company filming in the city shall be permitted only upon approval by the city council following application setting forth the day, time, and scope of the intended use. Use or rental fees, as set forth in the city's adopted fee schedule, shall be paid after the permit is approved by the city.
(1)
Off duty officers shall be used for any security and/or traffic control. These officers shall be provided by the company and at their expense. First right of refusal shall be given to the county sheriff department off duty officers.
(2)
Any city owned property or facility shall be returned to its original condition upon completion of production and shall be inspected and checked off by the administrator.
(3)
The production company shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers, employees, and agents from any and all liability of any kind arising from or in any way related to the special event. Proof of such indemnification and waiver of liability shall be filed with, and made a part of, the application form. The administrator may require that the producer obtain a policy of liability insurance to cover liability associated with the special event. The production company shall be responsible for providing any and all other insurance that may be necessary for any special event and shall name the city as an additional insured on the policy of Insurance. Said documentation must be executed and presented to the administrator prior to any filming.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-116))
Sec. 28-162. - Litter receptacles at places frequented by the public.
(a)
Receptacles required. Every owner, occupant, tenant, lessee or producer in control of any property that is held out to the public as a place for assemblage, for the transaction of business or recreation, or as a public way shall provide adequate receptacles of sufficient number and size to contain all litter generated by those persons frequenting that public place. The owner, occupant, tenant, lessee or producer in control of any property shall determine the number and size of the receptacles, except that no less than one receptacle shall be placed at each site. Receptacles shall be no less than 55 gallons in capacity and clearly marked and designed to prevent the escape of litter and waste. Any person owning or in control of any property at which receptacles are required by this chapter shall at his or her own expense be responsible for the placement, and maintenance of such receptacles as required by this article.
(b)
Periodic emptying of receptacles. All litter and solid waste shall be removed from receptacles as necessary and be maintained in a sanitary and serviceable condition.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-117))
Sec. 28-163. - Banners, signs, etc.
Temporary, noncommercial banners or signs may be permitted overhead across public streets for the purpose of designating "starting" and "finish" lines for a race. Small banners, pennants, signs or other decorations which do not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and which do not damage or deface any tree or public structure, may be allowed as part of a special event. Banners or signs permitted in this section will be subject to the approval of the Building Inspection Department. The producer of the event shall be responsible for the removal of such signs, banners, pennants, or decorations within 24 hours after the close of the event.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-118))
Sec. 28-164. - Duration of permit.
No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid prior to or past the date of the special event for which it is issued.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-119))
Sec. 28-165. - Cessation of activities.
The safety, health, welfare and good order of all citizens and the community shall be first and foremost and every special event shall be conducted in such manner. The administrator may terminate any activity, whether a part of or the entire event, which does not meet this community standard. Upon notification of the event producer in person by the administrator to cease any activity, it shall be unlawful for such producer and/or participants to permit such activity to continue.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-120))
Sec. 28-166. - Funeral processions.
The provisions of this aticle shall not apply to any parade or procession conducted under the supervision and direction of a funeral director in conjunction with any funeral.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-121))
Sec. 28-167. - Special conditions on permit.
Each department of the government reviewing an application may recommend in writing certain conditions or restrictions as deemed necessary to facilitate the event, to comply with other laws or regulations, and/or to ensure the safety, health and welfare of the community. In reviewing the recommendations of the departments, the mayor and council may impose such conditions or restrictions as part of the permit and such special conditions so imposed shall be construed to have the full force and effect of law as a provision of this article. A violation of such conditions or restrictions shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-122))
Sec. 28-168. - Administrative appeal.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the city council, or his designee, may appeal in writing within ten days after the issuance of such decision or order to the city clerk and shall be entitled to a hearing before the independent hearing officer within 30 days of receipt of the written appeal. The decision of the hearing officer shall be submitted to the Mayor within ten days after the hearing and shall serve as a non-binding advisory opinion to the city council which will allow the city council to amend or not to amend their original decision. The cost of the administrative appeal shall be borne by the appealing person.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-123))
Sec. 28-169. - Judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the city council, after exhausting all administrative remedies, shall have the right to appeal de novo to the county superior court.
(Ord. of 10-4-2022(2), art. I(44-124))
